it have be a real privilege to share the debate with so maiden speech this afternoon — something I do not expect . my hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) be not in her place just now , but I be sure her father would have be proud of she , as will her husband . I have a fantastic charity in my constituency call Dads Rock , which support dad and give they confidence . it sound like her husband be a dad who rock . it have be remarkable that Margaret Thatcher have be invoke quite a few time . it be quite unusual for her name to be mention so many time in my presence . I grow up in Fife during the 1980 , and I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) would agree that the impact that she have there be still feel today . People still feel the impact of the rapid deindustrialisation of proud community . I be sure that my hon . friend have casework still about the impact of that . it be emotional yesterday to hear the Chancellor deliver her fantastic speech . I be still a little hoarse today from all the emotion . this be the Budget our country need , and the IMF agree , which be incredible . it be great news for Labour MPs to wake up to this morning — I expect colleague from other party be less happy . the chance of my be elect be always slim , but I promise those I meet on the campaign trail that Labour would get our country back on track . yesterday ' s Budget be proof that we be serious about that . we have spend the week since the election clearing up the mess which be leave by other , but the Budget set down the foundation for what we want to do next . it be transformative Budget . I can not believe we be achieve so much in our first Budget , but it be only the start of a real change for our country . the Budget will work for both the work people who call Edinburgh South West home , but also the young and retire people who deserve well - fund public service . the measure that we set out yesterday be a re - set , establish the tone for the remainder of this Parliament and for the come decade , not just five year . go be the irresponsible commitment , without plan to follow through , that we have be deal with since the election . it feel like the grown - up be now run the country . we have a Budget that provide the stability to encourage growth and investment in our nation ' s infrastructure and our public service . after read through the detail of the Budget , it be clear that when my colleague Anas Sarwar say , " read my lip : no austerity under Labour " he mean it . the Chancellor have deliver . the Budget will deliver for the people of Scotland , with a record - break £ 47 . 7 billion for the Scottish Government ' s budget in 2025 - 26 . that have the potential to be entirely life change not just for my constituent , but for people right across Scotland . the Chancellor yesterday prove that when labour win , Scotland win , with the measure announce result in more investment per head of population in Scotland than in the rest of the UK . the Scotland Office be now equip with a budget for trade mission around the world , sell brand Scotland and bring in new investment and custom to countless scottish business . some 200 , 000 of the lowest - pay scot will also feel the benefit in their payslip . we will close the age band on the living wage , which have always be unacceptable . the Budget have protect work scot and have lay the foundation for a new era of investment and growth in Scotland , raise money from those with the broad shoulder . with all that in mind , I find it rather embarrass that SNP Members talk with a straight face about this be an austerity Budget . it be almost as if they write their speech before they hear the Budget . it be quite curious . I can only guess — as other have comment , none of they be here today — that they be busy rewrite their line and think about how they be go to respond . but I think a lot of people in Scotland will find it unacceptable that no SNP Members be here today to engage in this debate . be it not time , when the UK Labour Government have give the Scottish Government their large ever fund settlement , that the SNP begin to take responsibility for its own mismanagement of Scotland ' s finance ? in government , the SNP have waste million on pet project rather than the service on which so many scot rely . we have have ferry with paint window . as I speak , a hospital in Edinburgh be be close as an emergency action because of a lack of maintenance . this be not a small hospital . the Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion cater for 1 , 400 out - patient per week and it have be close almost overnight . it be a plan process , but one that have be force . it be absolutely incredible and shameful . in parallel with that , local authority have be starve of cash and our town and city have find their public service decimate . on Tuesday , I meet third sector group in my constituency who be prepare to make staff redundant due the pressure of SNP cut to social care . at 10 past 12 yesterday , just as the Chancellor be get ready to speak , I receive a WhatsApp message from a GP serve one of the most deprived part of my constituency . she describe the cut to social care service in Edinburgh as catastrophic and devastating . at quarter past 11 last night , I receive an email from a GP make exactly the same point . the SNP will blame Westminster or howl austerity , but in reality that be mince — that be a scottish phrase , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Scottish Government ' s own decision be to blame for " much of the pressure " face Scotland ' s finance . that be not just my view , but the consider view of the official economic forecaster in Scotland . the Budget present the Scottish Government with a choice . they can use the record funding to own the problem that they create and get our public service back on track , include the social care service I talk about . the only alternative to that be hand over power to Anas Sarwar in Scotland , because more guddle can not be an option but I fear that that be what we be go to get . if the SNP be not up for that challenge , Scottish Labour be ready to step in . my constituent know more than most the impact of the SNP ' s cut and mismanagement , because Edinburgh — Scotland ' s capital — have the worst - fund local authority in Scotland . with this additional funding , it be high time that the Scottish Government do the right thing and stop starve our council of the resource it need . Councillor Cammy Day , Edinburgh ' s council leader , make that demand yesterday . let we hope that the funding will be a lifeline to social care provider . in 2026 , scottish voter will have the opportunity to elect a Scottish Labour Government that will work hand in hand with this UK Labour Government to continue to deliver for the people of Scotland . however , until then , we Scottish Labour mps , and our colleague at Holyrood and in council chamber , will hold the Scottish Government to account for how they choose to spend the additional funding . after all , I think we can all agree that the Scottish Government have not just need more cash ; they have need to get well at spend it . we see yesterday what a Labour Chancellor can do to turn around the life of work people , even in the face of a shocking legacy hand to we by the Conservatives . this Government have give the Scottish Government all the financial tool they need to succeed . just imagine how truly transformative it would be if we have a Scottish Labour Finance Secretary work in partnership with a Labour Chancellor here in London . that be our goal .