Metropolitan Police : operational Independence ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary if she will make a statement on the operational independence of the Metropolitan police . about a month ago , Hamas perpetrate a sicken terrorist attack in Israel , murder 1 , 400 innocent people , often in horrific circumstance . about 200 people remain held hostage by Hamas , a terrorist organisation , and I be sure that the thought of the whole House be with those hostage today . we have also see , in the United Kingdom , thousand of people demonstrate in recent week . thank to the tireless work of the police , those incident have largely pass without significant incident . however , a number of arrest , now nearly 200 , have be make , where people have commit disorder , racially aggravate crime or assault on police officer . it be right that police officer have act robustly in those case . it be also right that the police be operationally independent of government . that be a fundamental principle of british policing , as the Prime Minister make clear yesterday . the Metropolitan police ask protester to postpone their plan protest this weekend , but the request be refuse . the Prime Minister meet the commissioner yesterday to seek reassurance that remembrance event will be protect . of course , remembrance event play a special part in this nation ' s long and proud history , and it would be a grave insult if they be to be disrupt in any way . it be for the Metropolitan police to decide whether to apply to the Home Secretary to ban any march . as of this morning , no such application have be receive , but the Home Secretary will , of course , carefully consider one should it be make . I reiterate that the police retain the confidence of the Prime Minister , Home Secretary and myself in use all the power available to they , under terrorism legislation and public order legislation , to prevent criminality and disorder , and hate speech . let I say to the House that I have be contact this morning repeatedly by member of the jewish community who be deeply apprehensive about what this weekend may bring , and I want to put on record that we expect the police to protect those member of community in London , include the jewish community , who be feel vulnerable this weekend . there be comprehensive power in place to do that . hate have no place on London ' s street and we expect the police to ensure that the law be uphold . there be power in place to deal with people spread hate or deliberately raise tension through harassment and abusive behaviour . the police can impose condition on marche , as indeed they have do to prevent pro - palestine protester from approach the israeli embassy , to give one example . the police have also use section 60aa condition to require people to remove face covering , but the use of those power be , of course , an operational matter for the Metropolitan Police Service . this weekend should first and foremost be about remember those who give their life in defence of this country . any disruption to remembrance service would be completely unacceptable and an insult to their memory . I have confidence that the Metropolitan police and other police force will ensure that this weekend pass off peacefully and without disruption . where be the Home Secretary ? she have send the Policing Minister here to refuse to repeat her word . we have see her word this morning ; she have be attempt to rip up the operational independence of the police , attack their impartiality in the crudest and most partisan of way , deliberately undermine respect for the police at a sensitive time , when they have an important job to do , and deliberately seek to create division around remembrance , which the Policing Minister rightly say should be a time for community to come together and to pay our respect . she be deliberately inflame community tension in the most dangerous of way . she be encourage extremist on all side , attack the police when she should be back they . it be highly irresponsible and dangerous , and no other Home Secretary would ever have do this . remembrance event be really important to all of we . those event need to be protect . that be the job of the police : to enforce and respect the law , while maintain public safety , tackle hate crime and extremism and respect right in law to peaceful protest . they have to follow the law and the evidence , whatever politician think , not be the operational arm of the Home Secretary , because whether she like it or not , that be the british tradition of police and I , for one , be proud of it . we know what she be up to — claim homelessness be a lifestyle choice , pick fight with the police to get headline — but the job of the Home Secretary be to keep the public safe , not run an endless Tory leadership campaign . cabinet colleague refuse to agree with she and former police chief be line up to condemn she , so I have two question : do this Government still believe in the operational independence of the police and how can they do so while this Home Secretary be in post ? and do the Prime Minister and no . 10 agree to the content of the article ? either the Prime Minister have endorse this or he be too weak to sack she . if he can not get a grip on her conduct , it mean he have give up on serious government , and he and the Home Secretary should both let someone else do the job . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for her question , as always . she ask about where the Home Secretary be . it may have be wise to ask that privately rather than publicly , but she be with a close family member who be have a hospital operation this morning . I have the Home Secretary ' s permission to say that to the House in the event that somebody raise it , as the shadow Home Secretary have do , so I be pass that message on to the House . as we consider this topic , the House should keep in mind the fact that many of our fellow citizen be feel deeply uneasy about what be go on in the middle east and the domestic repercussion . we have see a spike in Islamophobic offence — there have be 21 arrest in the last four week for Islamophobic offence . we have see a surge in antisemitic offence — there have be 98 arrest for antisemitic offence in the last four week . I have be contact this morning by member of the jewish community who be deeply uneasy about what this weekend will bring . I do not think it be acceptable that our fellow citizen feel scared or uneasy walk about the street of London . it be reasonable for politician — the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and other , include , I be sure , some on the Opposition Benches as well — to raise those concern and make sure that the police be protect those community . it be not acceptable to have fear and hatred on our street . let that message go out from this House today . in relation to the question about operational independence , yes , of course the Government resolutely back operational independence , as the Prime Minister make clear yesterday , after his meeting with the commissioner at No . 10 . but the Prime Minister also say after that meeting that he would hold the commissioner to account , as politician be suppose to do — police and crime commissioner , include the Mayor of London , as London ' s PPC , do that , and so do we , as Members of Parliament . that be perfectly proper and perfectly right . in term of the approval process with no . 10 , I be afraid I do not have any visibility on that at all , but let we keep in mind that we be see a humanitarian crisis unfolding in Gaza , there be 200 people be hold hostage , some 1 , 400 people be slaughter by terrorist and member of our own community be feel scared this weekend . let we keep that at the front of our mind , not party political point scoring . of course there be a principle of operational police independence , but I be concerned that the Metropolitan Police Commissioner keep say he have no power to stop the march or arrest people in these marche . he certainly have power under section 3 , 4 and 5 of the Public Order Act 1986 and under section 1 , 12 and 13 of the Terrorism Act 2000 . do my right hon . friend agree that the commissioner ' s predecessor certainly feel that they have the power to ban marche by the English Defence League in 2011 and 2012 under the same legislation that we be talk about now ? do he also agree that the Home Secretary have a power under section 40 of the Police Act 1996 ? that say that where the Home Secretary feel that the police be fail to exercise their discretion reasonably , she can demand special measure to take action herself . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his question . his knowledge of the law in this area , as in all area , be immaculate . the commissioner do have power under — I think — section I3 of the Public Order Act 1986 to ban marche in certain circumstance . as my right hon . and learn Friend say , it be last use about 11 year ago , so it be quite a rarely use power . it apply when the police think that they be unable to deal with disorder that may break out . that be quite a high threshold . the Metropolitan police have so far not make a request to the Home Secretary under that section , but , if they do so , it will be consider very carefully indeed . as my right hon . and learn Friend say , the police have a wide range of power that they have be exercise under anti - terrorism legislation . that legislation make it an offence to glorify , promote and incite association with proscribe organisation , which of course include Hamas . section 18 — I think — of the Public Order Act make it an offence to use threat to incite racial hatred . there be a wide range of offence and they be be use . so far during these protest , 188 people have be arrest for hate crime in relation to glorify Hamas , incite violence , and apparently praise the appalling terrorist atrocity that be commit , and we expect that wide - range of power to continue to be use . I call the SNP spokesperson . let I make it clear that the evil of antisemitism and Islamophobia should be condemn wherever we find they . More than 2 . 5 million Muslims fight for the British Empire in world war two to assert freedom , liberty and an end to fascism in Europe , use war to end all war and promote peace through armistice . the protest for peace be far from the Cenotaph and start later that day . the grandson of Winston Churchill , Nicholas Soames , have defend the right of people to march . do the Minister agree with he ? do he empathise with the contribution of Muslims for peace , then and now ? Armistice Day have turn into Armistice Weekend , and a lot of discussion be focus on the palestinian ceasefire march , when the police be more concerned about counter - protest from the far right , such as the English Defence League , and football hooligan , such as Football Lads Alliance . will the Government also be look to cancel the 10 premier league game schedule this weekend , or the Lord Mayor ' s parade that overlap the two - minute silence ? finally , the former Met assistant commissioner say this morning that this be " the end of operational independence in police " after the Government seek to pressure and exert control to ban Saturday ' s peace march , say that they be on the verge of behave unconstitutionally . do that not mean that the Home Secretary be unfit for office and should be sack ? as I have say very clearly , I do not agree with the suggestion that operational independence be in any way compromise . the Prime Minister make that clear follow his meeting with the Metropolitan Police Commissioner yesterday . none the less , I think that politician on both side of the House — both member of Parliament and police and crime commissioner — be entitle to comment on matter of public policy and public order , as they have do over recent year . I do not think that offer comment undermine operational independence , which , as have be quite rightly say , be a sacrosanct principle of our system . the hon . Gentleman mention sentiment in the muslim community in the United Kingdom . I be sure that , like I , he have meet the community in his constituency . we understand , I be sure , that there be huge concern , not just in the muslim community , but beyond , about the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . that be why this Government be provide additional aid . that be why they be call for a humanitarian pause to allow aid to get in . that be why our Prime Minister have work closely with other , include President Sisi of Egypt , to make sure the Rafah border crossing be open to allow aid in and certain citizen out . it be why our Prime Minister have renew his public commitment to a durable , two - state solution . those voice for peace be hear as well . let I repeat what I say at the start : operational independence of policing be a sacrosanct principle and this Government will not interfere with it . I know that the police be in a really difficult position , and that their power to ban marche be constrain by law , but I have to say that I be deeply trouble by this march on Saturday . in all the many year that I have know the jewish community , and in represent they in Chipping Barnet for 18 year , I have never know such fear and anxiety as I have see over the past few week . do the Minister agree that it be absolutely right that member of this House and Ministers hold the police to account to insist that they deploy the full force of the law against any offence of hate crime and antisemitism at these protest ? my right hon . friend be a tireless campaigner for the jewish community in Barnet and beyond . we of course expect the police to protect the jewish community across London and across the whole country at a time when they feel deeply uneasy . in fact , describe the sentiment that the jewish community be feel as unease understate it ; as I say early , I have receive message this morning from member of the jewish community express fear about this weekend , and I will raise those fear with senior police officer later today to ensure that the Met be aware of they , and be police that appropriately . there be no excuse for harassment . there be no excuse for incite racial hatred . that have no place in a civilised country such as this one , and we will not let it happen . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the Home Affairs Committee have spend many month scrutinise police for a report that be due to be publish tomorrow . that scrutiny have include the principle of police by consent and the operational independence of the police , free from political interference , in uphold the rule of law , as set down by Parliament on protest and other matter . alongside that , the Committee have be brief on the policing of protest and will be look to do more shortly . however , give the comment from the Home Secretary , the principle of operational independence of police date back to 1285 , and the police protocol , which the Home Secretary agree in June this year , can the Minister confirm that if there be to be any discussion of these long - stand policy principle of policing , Parliament be the place to do it , possibly include the use of a royal commission ? we should certainly not have these matter debate on the front page of newspaper at a time that be very challenging for community in this nation . I thank the right hon . Lady for the work of her Committee . I look forward to read her report greatly . I will give it close attention , as I always do . scrutiny of action by the police , or indeed any other public body , be not the same as interference . Scrutiny be healthy and appropriate ; interference be a different thing entirely . there be a distinction between scrutiny and interference . the operational independence principle be not one that we plan to revisit , but we look forward to discuss these question , both with the right hon . Lady ' s Committee and in this House . on this Home Secretary ' s watch , every day 6 , 000 crime across England and Wales go unsolved , so do she trust the police to do their job or not ? if the purpose of her article be to say that she know well than the commissioner of the Metropolitan police , she should say so — and she should say so here in this Chamber . if not , what possible motive could she have for seek to undermine public confidence in the police in this way ? we do have confidence in the police , but it be perfectly reasonable to scrutinise the police and hold they to account for their action , as police and crime commissioner do every day , and as member of this House do every day as well . in term of confidence in police more widely , accord to the crime survey for England and Wales , on a like - for - like basis crime be now 54 % low than it be under the last Labour Government . this morning , a former chief constable of Durham warn that the storm be whip up by the Home Secretary be divert resource away from a very serious threat that might arise . do the Minister not understand that the Home Secretary ' s incendiary and inflammatory comment ahead of what will be a really complex and sensitive policing operation for the Met this weekend be make their job even hard ? be this not a deeply irresponsible way for a Home Secretary to behave ? I do not accept the hon . Lady ' s characterisation . the Home Secretary and other politician on both side of the House be perfectly entitle to hold policing to account , but of course this Government , as the Prime Minister say , accept — indeed , embrace — the principle of operational independence . we all know that many people will be on the march on Saturday . the organiser and participant have tell I that they will be participate in ceremony of remembrance and that their march have be organise in such a way that it will not impact on that . the truth be that the Government be attempt to draw the police into take political side in a very contentious matter in the country . there be million of people who want a ceasefire . we be on a dangerous slippery slope , because the operational independence of the police to protect the right of assembly — the basic English right of liberty — be be challenge by the Home Secretary . she be not fit to hold that post , be she ? I do not accept that characterisation . I be sure all of we — [ interruption . ] excuse I , Mr Speaker ; I have a bit of a cold this morning . we all accept the right to protest , which , as the hon . Gentleman say , long predate the european convention on human right . there be limit to that right concern public order , incitement to racial hatred and so on , and it be for the police to police those law , but it be reasonable for politician to hold they to account for do that , as many politician on both side quite rightly do . the fact that only two conservative mp have turn up to defend the Home Secretary show that she have already lose the support of the House . the Minister be absolutely right when he say that there be no place for hate on our street , but be not the truth of the matter that there be no place for hate in the Home Office either , and the problem with the present Home Secretary be that she be the person incite hatred in this country ? the Minister be right that it be perfectly fair for we to have scrutiny of the police , but that normally come after an operational event , not before it . be it not the case that this Home Secretary be really try to command the police , which breach every single understanding we have historically have of the operational independence of the police ? I be slightly concerned that the hon . Gentleman say that there be only two Conservative Members in the House , when it be clear there be a great deal more than that — [ interruption . ] give his — order . I do not want to get into a tizzy about count . I will help with a little clarification : there be more conservative Members here , but only two have speak . I think that be the point . that be not quite how it come across from the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , but I will move on — order . we all have a judgment , and I have make mine . which of course I accept without hesitation or reservation , as I always do . I agree that hatred have no place on our street and I have say that repeatedly , but this be an unfold event . the hon . Gentleman talk about what happen after the event , but these protest have be go on for four week now . the Home Secretary be not comment entirely before the event ; she be also comment after event that have be unfold over the last four week , which have include 188 arrest and a number of community , both muslim and jewish , but particularly the jewish community , feel very uneasy . it be reasonable for the Home Secretary to try to ensure that community feel safe and protect , and that be what she be try to do . when woman be treat brutally and unjustly by the Metropolitan police in this city in the wake of the Sarah Everard murder , member come , correctly , to criticise the police , inside this House and out , for their failure and for their brutality . I remember people on the Opposition Benches call on the Government to be more brutal on the police at that point . the hand - wring hypocrisy and the pant - wet that we be see over someone correctly criticise the police be amazing . I have witness irish nationalists and republicans , who the Home Secretary refer to in her article , run too quickly to the support of Hamas , to colombian terrorist , to Hezbollah and a whole host of other . the Home Secretary be correct to call that out and to say it as she see it , and this House be right to back she . I thank the hon . gentleman for his word . he be right to point out those example where member of this House , particularly on the Opposition Benches , have in the past criticise the police . no one on those occasion claim that those criticism impinge on the operational independence of the police ; they be simply hold the police to account , as politician on both side be entitle to do . I be grateful to he for remind the House of those previous occasion when Opposition member have exercise their prerogative to hold the police to account . I be think of the number of time I have speak to criticise and call out the police for their behaviour in thing that they have get wrong , but we be see the Home Secretary blatantly interfere with the operational day - to - day decision of the police . we have to call that out ; the police have to be independent . I have lose count of the number of people our Home Secretary have demonise , be they LGBT people , homeless people or minority . why ? why be there so much hate spew from she ? the organiser of the march have say that it do not coincide with Remembrance Day . will the Minister correct that and stop conflate the two issue ? I do not accept the hon . Lady ' s characterisation ; it be both unfair and unintentionally inaccurate . there be all kind of risk that the police will have to manage on Saturday if the march go ahead , include the risk that group break away , which do in fact happen last Saturday — a group break away and end up in Trafalgar Square , where they set off firework , and 11 police officer be assault . those be the kind of risk that will have to be manage by the police on Saturday . that be not an easy job , but I be sure that the police have the House ' s full support in do it . the shadow Home Secretary ' s question be whether the Minister could confirm that the Home Secretary ' s intervention to undermine the operational independence of the police be sign off through the normal no . 10 process and therefore have the support of the Prime Minister . the Minister say that he have no sight of that , so what will he do to furnish the House with an answer to that question ? I be afraid that communication between other member of the Government be not a matter for I . I be responsible for police , deliver record police number and fall crime . that be my job and I be do it . do the Minister agree with the Home Secretary that " senior police officer play favourite when it come to protester " ? it be up to the police to apply the law . it be important that the police apply the law even - handedly , and that be what I be sure all member of the House want they to do . word matter , so in the Home Secretary ' s absence , can the Minister explain in what way protest marche in the UK relate to Israel and Gaza be " disturbingly reminiscent of Ulster " , and do he agree ? that be not directly germane to the protest on Saturday . we have see all kind of protest in Ulster over the year — dissident Republicans among other . what we need to do be ensure that London ' s street be safe , and that we do not have an atmosphere of fear or intimidation , and that be what we expect the police to deliver . UK Sanctions Regime : Russia and Belarus ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the effectiveness of the implementation of the UK sanction regime against Russia and Belarus . the sanction regime be deal with by the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , but I shall do my good to answer this most important question pose by the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) . sanction be an important tool that we use to weaken Putin ' s war effort and to underline our unyielding support for Ukraine . Britain alone have sanction more than 1 , 800 individual and entity under the Russia sanction regime , more than 1 , 600 of which have be sanction since Putin ' s full - scale invasion . although I can not comment on individual case , we be pleased that the High Court have in recent week recognise the Foreign Office ' s expertise on decide which person should be sanction to ensure maximum effect . we have freeze over £ 18 billion - worth of russian asset through designation and over 60 % of Russia ' s central bank foreign reserve — asset that can no long be funnel back to Russia to fund its war machine . rather than the surplus that the russian Government predict for 2022 , Russia suffer an annual deficit of £ 47 billion — the second high of the post - soviet era . its budget remain in deficit in 2023 , despite tax increase . we have also target those who have enable sanction person to hide their asset in obscure and complex financial network , and we be work to crack down on phoenix company , which continue to operate after sanction be impose or which be develop front to avoid sanction . just yesterday , we impose 29 further sanction target individual and entity operate in and support Russia ' s gold , oil and strategic sector — critical source of revenue for the russian war machine . those sanction include Russia ' s large gold refiner , as well as international network prop up Russia ' s gold , oil and finance industry . our co - ordinate sanction , work in line with our G7 partner , be have an impact . without our sanction and those of our partner , we estimate that Russia would have over $ 400 billion more to fund its war machine . we be starve Putin of the resource he need to fund his illegal war on Ukraine . sanction be thwart russian access to western component and technology . Russia ' s budget remain in deficit . our oil price cap have contribute to a fall of 25 % in russian oil revenue between January and September 2023 , compare with the same period in 2022 , and our export ban have starve Russia of thousand of product need for the battlefield . his Majesty ' s Government be fully aware , as member will be , that sanction be not static . we be constantly monitor to see where and if they be be circumvent . alongside our international partner , we be close loophole and tackle sanction evasion , as Putin desperately scramble to restructure the russian economy and smuggle good in through back channel . we will continue to isolate Russia ' s financial system and support business that be seek to divest from their link with Russia . we will bring forward further legislation in the come week to deliver on our G7 commitment and far deprive Russia of lucrative remain revenue source , include ban import of russian diamond and end all import of russian copper , aluminium and nickel — Order . I have try cough ; I have try different way of indicate that the Minister be almost a minute over . we need to get speech well time in future to three minute . I be sure he be come to the end immediately . thank you , Mr Speaker . finally , we will continue to combat circumvention and seek to degrade Russia ' s military capability by come down hard on sanction evader and closing loophole . for the record , I want to say that we have a bit of drift over early . we be back in a new session . the rule be quite clear : the time limit be three minute for the Minister , and for those who have table the question , it be two minute . please adhere to it . do not take advantage of the Chair , because you be take advantage of the people I represent : they be call back Benchers . I thank the Minister for his response . he will know that there be unity across the House in stand with Ukraine , but there be serious concern about the effectiveness of our sanction regime . almost two year have pass since Putin begin this phase of his illegal and barbaric invasion of Ukraine , but on Monday , it be reveal by the Times that a british company have allegedly continue to ship semiconductor to Russia since Putin ' s war begin and that these have be identify within at least one russian tank deploy in the conflict against Ukraine . it also report that the company only stop ship to its russian distributor after the bank refuse to process payment for these export . there be clearly serious deficiency in the implementation of our regime that must be address . I have these raise with I on my recent visit to Kyiv , and I draw attention to my declaration of interest . I would like clarity from the Minister on a number of key point . can he confirm whether there be loophole within our regime that continue to allow for material to be export to Russia and Belarus that could be use in the production of military item ? why do those omission still exist , and what step be be take to deal with they ? secondly , can he set out what assessment have be make by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Treasury of the existence of allege loophole that allow indirect import into UK market of russian or belarusian origin steel , or indeed russian origin crude oil that have be refine in third country ? these be very serious allegation . thirdly , City AM reveal this week that nearly 130 UK company have admit breach Russia - relate sanction as a result of a freedom of information request by the law firm Pinsent Masons . it be good that those company have come forward voluntarily , but it show the scale of the problem . finally , accord to the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation , only one financial penalty have be issue regard a sanction breach within the Russia and Belarus sanction regime since February 2022 , and only three penalty have be publish across all UK sanction regime since June 2021 . that compare very unfavourably with the United States and other ally , which have be issue fine and deal with this issue . labour stand unshakeably with our ally in provide military , economic , diplomatic and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine in the face of Putin ' s illegal invasion , but that must include a robust sanction regime . I thank the hon . Gentleman very much for his comment — I know the revelation in the british medium to which he refer at the beginning of his remark . I will write to he today on some of the technical point he have raise , give he a very specific answer . on the general point he have make , I can tell he that Britain have prohibit the export to Russia of thousand of product , include semiconductor , and our trade with Russia be down over 96 % from pre - invasion level . we be also provide advice to UK business on how to identify method of circumvention and have share a list of product of particular concern that could end up on the battlefield . I thank my right hon . friend for the update , but he will probably be aware that there be backdoor route that be lead to technology end up in Russia . the most prevalent of those be british university supply technology to Iran that end up on drone , which be then use by Russia to attack the brave Ukrainians . will he undertake to investigate this practice and put a stop to it , and to apply appropriate sanction accordingly ? my hon . friend accurately identify danger to the sanction regime that can cause they to be circumvent . we be , I think , good at identify and close down such danger , but I should make it clear to he that UK sanction prohibit a range of activity relate to the movement of prohibit item to and from Russia , both directly and indirectly . in that context , I will consider carefully the point that my hon . friend have make . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for his answer . the SNP welcome the extension of sanction against the russian regime , but we still think more need to be do . for example , be there any plan to extend the sanction that be currently in place against Hamas and other terrorist organisation operate in the middle east , which we know be forge close and close link with Putin and his criminal terrorist network ? in particular , the United States have already sanction a number of Hamas representative and people close to Hamas operate in different country in the middle east . do the Minister and the Government have any plan to follow suit and sanction those same individual ? the Foreign Affairs Committee recently describe the UK Government ' s effort to sanction individual and organisation link to Russia ' s Wagner terrorist group as " underwhelme in the extreme " . what action do the Government intend to take in response to that report , so that organisation such as Wagner and those who run they be effectively sanction ? we know that Ukraine have impose sanction on the former KGB intelligence officer Alexander Lebedev . do the UK Government have any plan to follow suit ? I thank the hon . Gentleman very much for his comment . we do not give routine update or a running commentary on sanction , but he may rest assure that we be look at Hamas in every respect . he draw attention to the Foreign Affairs Select Committee ' s report ; as he will know , we recently announce sanction — both direct and indirect — against Wagner . while we be careful not to discuss specific case , we take all potential breach very seriously , and all business that be register in the UK be bind by law to comply with the Russia sanction regime . the Minister have give we a very informative statement . I be very interested in this business of intellectual knowledge get to Russia via third party . can I take it that his Majesty ' s Government have contact and speak with the vice - chancellor and principal of our academic institution the length and breadth of the UK to advise they how this must be stop ? I thank the hon . member for his comment about my informative — but overlong , Mr Speaker — answer to this urgent question , and I can assure he that we deal with all relevant area . the point he make about academic area be a very good one , and we will make sure that that be fully take into account . business of the House I call the shadow Leader of the House . will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? the business for the week commence 13 November will be : Monday 13 November — Continuation of the debate on the King ' s Speech , on build an NHS fit for the future . Tuesday 14 November — Continuation of the debate on the King ' s Speech , on secure high , sustain economic growth in every part of the country . Wednesday 15 November — Conclusion of the debate on the King ' s Speech , on reduce serious violence and violence against woman and girl , and raise confidence in police and the criminal justice system . Thursday 16 November — debate on the report of the Speaker ' s Conference on the employment condition of Members ' staff , follow by a general debate on COP28 . Friday 17 November — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 20 November will include : Monday 20 November — remain stage of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . Tuesday 21 November — second reading of the Media Bill . Wednesday 22 November — my right hon . friend the Chancellor will make his autumn statement , follow by a debate on the autumn statement . Thursday 23 November — Continuation of the debate on the autumn statement . Friday 24 November — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 27 November will include : Monday 27 November — Conclusion of the debate on the autumn statement . so there we have it : confirmation that the Government have give up on govern . the Prime Minister ' s first and likely only King ' s Speech , and what should be his moment of maximum power and authority — yet it be not , because he be too weak , he have no burn agenda , he can not escape his government ' s own record and he certainly can not be the change the country be cry out for . the verdict be in : " thin gruel " , " damp squib " , " dull as ditchwater " , " a series of gimmick " , and a Prime Minister who have " already check out , his wheelie be at the door " . those be not my word , but those of conservative Members . the Leader of the House know it and they know it : yet another fail reset . they be out of idea and out of road — " drift to defeat " , as one have put it today . the programme be so thin it be embarrassing . of the few Bills announce , five be carry - over , four be barely long than a page , three we have see before and the flagship crime Bill have already be shelve . despite the big issue face our country , the Government ' s answer be so small . there be nothing to tackle the cost of living crisis , just a Prime Minister delude that everything be go great , and even get his own figure wrong . there be nothing on NHS waiting list or mental health , despite a Bill be promise many time . education have be consign to lofty ambition year away . there be nothing of substance on transport , despite Network North be the Prime Minister ' s last big reset — another flunk . however , the Government have find time for the regulation of pedicab and a Bill to make it easy to sack doctor . do the Government really think that sack doctor be the solution to an NHS crisis ? other Bills be political stunt , not fix problem . take North sea gas and oil . can the Leader of the House confirm that we already have regular North sea licensing and that it have not prevent the bad cost of live crisis in generation ? can she also confirm that , in the midst of that crisis drive by energy bill , the grand offer of this King ' s Speech be a Bill that , by the admission of the Energy Secretary , will do absolutely nothing about bill ? the only way to bring down bill and get energy security be by go far and fast on cheap renewable . instead , this Government be retreat and spend billion subsidise gas , the price of which be set globally anyway . it be politic first , country second . then there be the so - call flagship crime Bill — a Bill that have have to go back to the drawing board . the Prime Minister be too weak to stand up to his Home Secretary , who want to criminalise give homeless people tent because she think it be a lifestyle choice — despicable . we all know what she be up to ; it be naked . instead of sack she , the Prime Minister cower next to she . he be cower next to she today , too . she be out of control . she be utterly irresponsible , undermine the police while stoke up division ahead of a difficult and important weekend . she be unhinge . do the Leader of the House agree with the Home Secretary that police officer be play favourite in this case ? but the Prime Minister be so weak that he can not rein in the Home Secretary . he be so weak that he could not even get his own idea into his own king ' s Speech — Order . I do not like the term " unhinge " . I understand that tension be run very high , but I want we to try to moderate our language . I will withdraw that , Mr Speaker , and I will ask my question instead . nutrient neutrality have be drop to avoid another embarrassing defeat . whatever happen to the motorist Bill , brief several time as the Prime Minister ' s big idea ? it be nowhere this week . the ban on conversion therapy ? drop . one of the Prime Minister ' s pet project do make it into the King ' s Speech though : a Bill on autonomous vehicle . but the joke be make on the Tory WhatsApp group be that it be their own government that be the driverless car . I can tell the Leader of the House that Labour be rev up . there be much that we would do . we would bring in a fiscal responsibility lock , so that mortgage payer never again pay the price of conservative failure . we would ban water boss ' bonus and clean up our river ; end non - dom tax break and have more doctor and teacher ; change plan law to build more affordable home ; levy a proper windfall tax ; and set up GB energy . we would make work pay , legislate for proper leasehold reform and right for renter , tackle crime and violence against woman and girl , introduce a skill and growth levy , and pass real rail and bus reform — the list go on . the Prime Minister be right about one thing : this country need change . but his programme offer more of the same : weakness , failure , political stunt and division . this government have give up on govern and be prepare for job in opposition , but take it from I : opposition be not all it be crack up to be . it be a privilege to have the power of Government and a majority in this place . be not the big travesty of all that they do not even want it any more ? I start by thank you , Mr Speaker , all member and all staff of this House for make the State Opening and the King ' s first Gracious Address to Parliament so successful . I know that many right hon . and hon . member will be take part in remembrance service across the nation and overseas this weekend . medal proudly wear by our veteran be not just thank from a grateful nation ; they be a message for the rest of we . we should remember their service and sacrifice , but also the lesson that make their service and sacrifice both necessary and possible . this weekend , as we attend service and lay wreath beside memorial , we should reflect on how good to honour they and the freedom we enjoy because of they , and protect their precious legacy . the shadow Leader of the House start by talk about the cost of living . I be sorry that , as she do so , she do not recognise that this week we have pay out £ 2 . 2 billion in cost of living payment and that 99 % of household eligible for the cost of live payment have already receive it from this Government . I disagree with the hon . Lady , because I do not think that our cost of living issue be remotely help by lessen our energy security , which be why we be bring forward the Bill and why I ask her party to support it . it be not at all incompatible with invest in renewable energy and clean technology . the hon . Lady be rather fond of criticise both our record and our plan for this session , so it might be helpful to get the score on the door . she believe that our 43 Bills , 1 , 000 statutory instrument and record number of private member ' Bills — 24 — pass in the third session of this Parliament be a shabby record . I point out to she that only in two of the 13 parliamentary Sessions between 1997 and 2010 be more bill put through than we put through in the last session . in the last Sessions of Labour Administrations , the average number of Bills bring forward be 21 . the hon . Lady can not justify her charge against we about the amount we have get do . she might be rely on the time it take we — it do take we less time than we have allocate to pass a lot of that legislation and to do Government business — but that be not really a problem for those on the Government Benches ; it be a more a problem for those on the Opposition Benches , although I have no complaint about that . those on the Government side of the House have be pull their weight , even in Opposition day debate — in debate on school safety and animal welfare , for example , there be more conservative speaker than opposition speaker . let I go into the specific point that the hon . Lady raise . on tent , the Home Secretary have no plan to ban Millets — we be not do that . the Government have make the large investment ever in tackle homelessness and rough sleeping , provide £ 2 billion to accelerate its mitigation and prevention , include prevent 640 , 000 people from become homeless in the last five year . on conversion therapy , we have a manifesto commitment , and it be still a manifesto commitment . the Secretary of State will keep the House inform on the work she be do on this important matter . I be surprised to hear the hon . Lady raise nutrient neutrality . I have hope she would support our measure , but the Secretary of State will no doubt update the House on the further work he be do in that area . however , we be bring forward many measure that will assist more development to happen , include reform at the valuation office . at the heart of the charge the hon . Lady present be value and the question of who be fit to govern for the people of this country , and I would ask she to undertake just a little self - reflection . she mention doctor , but 80 % of the medical doctor in the House sit on the Government Benches , while 91 % of the veteran in the House sit on these Benches , so I do not think there be a problem with our value , our service or our duty . yesterday , outside this place , just stop oil activist hold up an ambulance on Waterloo bridge . it be government legislation , pass in this House , that enable the police to arrest 40 of those protester and get the traffic move — legislation that the hon . Lady block , along with reform to protect the public from strike action . the hon . Lady support the regressive tax policy of the London Mayor and the tax and spend policy of the shadow Chancellor , which would saddle every household with an additional £ 3 , 000 of tax per annum . the one - time party of " education , education , education " be now the party of " tax education , education , education " — the hon . Lady should think about that for a moment and about the value it represent . I will take no lecture from a Labour party that put politic before people . Labour member talk of change , but I be afraid that the Labour party have not change at all . yesterday , I host the first ever parliamentary reception for Yorkshire Cancer Research — a fantastic charity that have be work for nearly 100 year in the fight against cancer , and not just in Yorkshire . it be a significant funder of research , and we have some very fine research institution in the north . however , institution in the north as a whole — the north - east and the north - west , as well as Yorkshire — can do more . please could we have a debate about research funding and the process by which it be allocate ? I thank my hon . friend for the work he be do . he raise an important point , and if he be to apply for a debate , I be sure it would be well attend . the Department of Health and Social Care invest about £ 1 billion a year in research through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , and that institution welcome funding application on any aspect of health research . its expenditure on cancer research in the last financial year be over £ 100 million . I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter , and I shall draw the attention of the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to what he have say . I call the SNP spokesperson . before her rapid rise to her current role as the Leader of the House , the right hon . Lady briefly serve as Minister for Women and Equalities . there be — believe it or not — still such a role in this Tory Government . I raise that because recently there have be some absolutely shocking insight into the Government ' s attitude to woman and equality that give we an opportunity to assess her Government ' s record , and — spoiler alert for she — it be grotesque . first , we have the stomach - churn misogyny in language and behaviour describe by witness at the covid inquiry . I imagine that even the Leader of the House would find it hard to defend the routine and disgraceful attack on woman in a Government she serve . it tell we so much . we then have the United Nations rapporteur on extreme poverty and human right , Oliver De Schutter , tell the right hon . Lady ' s Government that their record on poverty be " simply not acceptable " and be violate international law . that surprise no one who see the effect of her Government ' s cruel policy day in and day out . then a former Tory chair join the fray by say that there be " rot at the heart " of the party she be once so proud to be a member of — a rot at the heart of Government . what we be talk about be the Tory Government ' s value , and those value be not Scotland ' s value . their value suggest that the way to help the homeless be to ban charity from supply tent to rough sleeper — it be a " lifestyle choice " to be homeless , be it not ? those comment be so misjudged that even the Prime Minister be embarrassed . they have the value that say , " we don ' t care if we break international law on poverty and the human right of the poor " , and that woman can be dismiss in the foul way imaginable as a part of normal behaviour . Simon Case , the country ' s most senior civil servant , say that he have " never see a bunch of people less well - equip to run a country " . he should know . can we have a debate on the Tory Government ' s value and what 13 year under this " brutal and useless " Government have do to progress woman and equality and the interest of the most vulnerable among we in this far from United Kingdom ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . the powerful word this week of Susie Flintham of Covid - 19 Bereaved Families for Justice should give we all pause for thought . that be why the Government have place professionalism and care of each other at the heart of what we do . we be the first Government to have set up a ministerial human resource function in Whitehall — it be shameful that previously that do not exist . that be also why we be focus on more training and support for mps , Ministers and official , and it be why , in my evidence to the Standards Committee , I say that the only way we will make the nation proud of our conduct here be to recognise the responsibility and duty of care we have to each other across the hundred of organisation that make up the political landscape — Parliament , political party and Whitehall . the Government and I as Leader of the House take these matter incredibly seriously . the hon . Lady talk about value and language . I hope that she will have a word with some of her party ' s activist , who have intimidate those who stand against she or stand up for their own principle . I point out that , despite by - election loss , the Government do arrive back here with a new MP who sit on our Benches . a little self - reflection about some of the reason why that MP make that transition would be appreciate . the hon . Lady want to talk about value . on woman and equality issue , it be the SNP that have tear the social fabric of the UK with its plan on gender recognition reform . it be the SNP and the Labour party , which back the SNP on that , that have back the anti - free speech Bill that the Scottish Government have be so keen to push . the party be in coalition together at a local level . labour would give the SNP power on foreign affair and have indulge the First Minister of Wales ' s separatist agenda . the hon . Lady often come here to say that the Government do not respect devolution . we do respect devolution ; it be part of our value . since the turn of the century , the UK Government have legislate for Scotland more than 200 time with the Scottish Government ' s consent . it be the SNP that do not listen to local voice . the party that do not respect local people and local decision making be the SNP , which overrule 50 % of council on planning appeal , do not consult local authority regard its council tax policy , and do not pass on funding from the UK Government that be design for Scotland ' s local authority . I think that our value be fine . the hon . Lady should look to her own party if she want some improvement . some of the Ukrainians house in Mid Derbyshire under the Homes for Ukraine scheme be worried about their future , as their visa be start to expire . they include school pupil who be uncertain about whether they can continue their education here , attend british university and receive home student fee and funding . will the Government make a statement outline the future of the Homes for Ukraine scheme and how student will be affect ? many member be host ukrainian refugee , and we be acutely aware of how difficult it be for they to plan their life in the situation that they find themselves in . we will give they as much certainty as we can so that they can start to make decision about study or where they might go in a year ' s time . my understanding be that they must be give a year ' s notice , so many will be give information next spring . I will write to both relevant Departments to flag the point that if we can do anything early it would be appreciate . the word " economy " be mention only once in the King ' s Speech . give that the country face the high tax burden since the second world war , not to mention the long squeeze on wage in 200 year , do that not speak volume about the Government ' s lack of a long - term plan for our economy ? the hon . Lady will know that the big way we can help household be to curb inflation . that be the Chancellor ' s priority , and it be why we have exercise restraint on spending . I be sorry that the hon . Lady do not support we in those effort , but she will not have long to wait for the Chancellor ' s autumn statement , which I announce in the business statement . could we have a debate on the volunteer who support the Royal British Legion ? I be lucky enough to be the honorary president of the Royal British Legion in Hinckley , 100 year since its formation , and my predecessor but three be also its honorary president . I have see the work of the like of Elaine Ward , who have be collect for the poppy appeal for 50 year . I will be there in Hinckley on Friday . could we have a debate about how magnificent this charity really be ? I be sure I speak for all member of the House by thank the hon . gentleman for enable we all to send our thank to the Royal British Legion and its army of volunteer who assist all year round , not just during the poppy campaign . if we be to have a debate , it would be well attend and very long , because the work it do be tremendously diverse , help family as well as veteran and serve member of the armed force . this summer I welcome to Parliament teacher from Oldfield Park Infant School and Twerton Infant School . they tell I how they be struggle with staff shortage , underfunding and an increasingly unmanageable workload . in the south - west , teacher vacancy have rise by 175 % in the last five year . so far , the Government have commit only to a fraction of the recommend £ 15 billion need for catch - up education . can we have a debate in Government time to get to the bottom of the considerable underfunding of school ? as the hon . Lady know , we have protect the school budget and increase the number of teacher substantially — I think we have an additional 30 , 000 since 2010 . clearly , recruitment be an issue in certain part of the country . there have be a number of campaign through local authority to attract teacher from particular discipline into area that do not have enough of they . I will write to the Secretary of State on the hon . Lady ' s behalf and ask she whether she and her Department could share some good practice with the hon . Lady and her local authority . the Leader of the opposition recently say that he would bulldoze local protest and opposition in order to build million more home , which have folk in my patch worried . be there some way of find Government time to have a debate to show that there always need to be local consent and engagement to build the home that we need ? we need those home to be affordable , proportionate , sustainable and appropriate . I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . it be important to respect local decision making . we know from the neighbourhood plan forum we help to establish that quite often they be more ambitious about build home in their area than their own local authority . we be on track to meet our manifesto commitment of 1 million new home in this Parliament . since 2010 , we have deliver over 2 . 2 million home , with million move into home ownership . through the Levelling up and Regeneration Act 2023 , we be also improve the planning process . at the heart of it , I be very happy to say , we still have local people and local decision making . last Saturday I have the privilege of attend the launch of the north - east Field of Remembrance , run by the Royal British Legion , in Saltwell Park in my constituency . will the Leader of the House join I in thanking and congratulate the Royal British Legion on an excellent ceremony ? Saltwell Park be a massively brilliant venue for our north - east Field of Remembrance . I be also wonder how soon we might get an announcement that will lead to the recommencement of the Backbench Business Committee in this Session of Parliament . first of all , I be very happy to join the hon . gentleman in congratulate the Royal British Legion in his constituency on all the work they do all year round , but particularly at this time of year . I have be prod my colleague with regard to his request , and I hope to have some news for he this afternoon . this weekend , the nation will fall silent to remember those who make the ultimate sacrifice in the great war , the second world war and other conflict . next weekend at the Cenotaph , the Association of jewish Ex - servicemen and Women will conduct its annual march . that will be a really important security operation for the Metropolitan police . last year , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Alex Chalk ) become the first ever Minister to lay a wreath at that service . will my right hon . Friend allow a debate in Government time on the contribution make by jewish ex - servicemen and woman , and will she prevail on the Defence Secretary or a Defence Minister to attend the service and lie a wreath ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that very important point . it be right that we mark the contribution of all ex - servicemen and woman . he mention the — I think 120 , 000 — jewish serviceman who fight in world war with our british armed force . these be incredibly important event , and 19 November coincide with Mitsvah Day , a day when the jewish community around the country will be support local charity and community — another example of the service they give to their community and this nation . I be very happy to ensure that there be ministerial attendance at that event . that tradition should continue . I can not tell he which Minister , but I shall make sure that all relevant Departments remember the request . the Leader of the House have assure the House time and again that it be the intention of the House of Commons Commission and herself to bring forward measure on risk - base exclusion , which we be mean to debate before the summer recess . it be now November . I be sure the right hon . Lady be bored of be ask this question , but not as bored as I be of have to keep ask it . with yet more recent report allege serious misconduct while measure to address they appear to be kick into the long grass , when will time be find to discuss how to ensure Parliament be a safe workplace and to restore our reputation with the public ? when either the Committees of this House or the Commission bring forward proposal to be debate on the Floor of the House , we find time very swiftly — usually within a week . we do debate the proposal before the summer recess and there be some very legitimate comment from member . the hon . Lady take part in that debate herself , if I remember correctly . the Commission be consider these thing and as soon as it have finalise a proposal we will , just as we always have , bring it back to this House . since my election , I have liaise closely with the Environment Agency and City of Doncaster Council to ensure that we never again see as many flood victim as we see in 2019 . storm Babet result in the flooding of 15 property ; far more be flood in 2019 . while that be an undoubted success and a testament to the hard work of the agency and the council , we in Doncaster be now be penalise for that success . for those 15 household who do suffer flooding , it be still a disaster , so may we hold a debate on my proposal that the Government ' s excellent compensation scheme for flood victim should apply to all area , not just those where a minimum of 25 property be affect ? I be very sorry to hear about those household , and my sympathy go out to all who have be affect . I be pleased to hear that the flood have have less impact than in previous year . that be a very good development , but of course it be of no comfort to those who have suffer . I would encourage my hon . friend ' s local authority to contact the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities if it think that it be able to meet the criterion for support . I understand that the Department be open to listen and work with council so that they receive proper support , and I think they have until late January next year to provide information on those criterion , but I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State have hear my hon . friend ' s advocacy for the 15 flood household in his constituency . the overwhelming majority of people in Yorkshire be proud and patriotic , love their family , and work hard . how can it be , then , that family have to approach food bank 75 , 000 time last year in order to feed their child ? that be shameful , and doubtless it be in the UN rapporteur ' s mind when he say that our country be in breach of its international treaty obligation under the international covenant on economic , social and cultural right . may we have a debate about child poverty in Government time , and will the Leader of the House arrange for a Government Law Officer to be present to tell we what their legal defence be for the position in which the Government have put we ? this be an important matter , and one that the Government take extremely seriously . that be why we have a package of more than £ 90 billion to support people through these cost of living strain , and it be why we be work to combat and mitigate the cause . what be happen internationally have place immense strain on our fuel price and so forth . I think that we should debate these matter , and I hope that we debate they in all part of the UK . I be sure that if the hon . Gentleman apply for a debate , it would be well attend . he might also like to read the Senedd ' s report on the Welsh Labour Government ' s track record on child poverty , which be out this week : I think he would find it an eye - opening read . speeding and antisocial driving continue to blight Chalkwell and Leigh - on - Sea , with boy racer use illegal exhaust hurtle down our seafront at all time of the day and night . even our local legend Linda Catling , who , despite be partially sight , regularly knit woollen postbox topper and have now create a speed camera topper , be consider move out of Marine Parade owe to the dangerous driving . give that road crime , include speeding , kill more people in Essex than all other crime put together , may we please have a debate in Government time on speeding and antisocial driving ? I thank my hon . friend for give a plug to Linda Catling . I will have to google her knit speed camera post box topper — they sound very interesting indeed — and we send our good to she . I also thank my hon . friend for raise such an important point . as she will know , one of the Bills that we announce in the King ' s Speech will hopefully lead to much great road safety in year to come , and I hope she will support that Bill as it make its way through the House . last weekend , the Home Secretary turn her damaging and divisive rhetoric on the homeless , describe homelessness as a " lifestyle choice " and suggest that her government should prioritise strip homeless people of their tent and fine the charity that provide they with that shelter . although I be relieved that this disgraceful proposal do not make it into the King ' s Speech , could I ask the Leader of the House to take this opportunity to apologise for her colleague ' s callous remark ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I have already give some statistic on this Government ' s record on tackle homelessness , in term of finance and how many people we have prevent from become homeless . our Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 have already ensure that more than 6 , 000 people have be prevent from become homeless . I be here to answer for the Government ' s record and the Government ' s agenda , and I have . Mr Speaker , may I , too , thank you and your staff for all the hard work that be do to make the state open such a magnificent occasion ? it be exceptional , as usual . since 3 November , I have be inundate with correspondence and call both from my own constituent and from constituent who should be represent by mp who unfortunately boycott this place . cystic fibrosis kill far too many young people across the United Kingdom . accord to National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidance , while Orkambi , Symkevi and Kaftrio be " clinically effective treatment with important benefit " , they be too expensive to be recommend for use . such a decision rob suffer child and their parent of the hope of life . do the Leader of the House think the four - week consultation be adequate so that representation can be make to see these drug extend to suffer young people across the whole United Kingdom in order to save life and give hope to parent ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this question , which will be of concern to everyone who have this condition , their carer and their family . he will know that there be a very clear process to ensure the drug that be available and approve by NICE be both cost - effective and clinically effective . there be appeal process , and I be sure he will assist his constituent to make representation . of course , even if a drug be not approve by NICE , patient can , in certain circumstance , still have access to it if it can be show that the drug would disproportionately benefit that individual . can we please have a statement from the Paymaster General to explain to the House why the very clear and final recommendation make by Sir Brian Langstaff in his report publish in April — seven month ago — set out the need to extend interim payment and to set up a compensation scheme this year , have effectively be trash by the Government ? be it not shameful that , after set up a five - year public inquiry and run a parallel compensation review so that the payment of compensation would not drag on for far too long , and with very clear recommendation from a well - thought - of , esteemed former High Court judge , the Government have decide not to implement any of those key recommendation ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her diligent campaigning on this matter . she rightly note that the compensation study be set up to run concurrently in order to save time . I know that the Paymaster General be plan some engagement in the come week with the group that be campaign . have raise this at a previous business question , the right hon . Lady will know that I have also raise it with the Paymaster General . I will make sure that he hear what she have say again today . I can tell she that he be committed to act as swiftly as possible to ensure that all people , include those who should receive interim payment , do so . it have recently be announce that the two island in my constituency , the Isle of Arran and the Isle of Cumbrae , be each to lose their Bank of Scotland branch . follow hard on the heel of that announcement , Brodick post office on the Isle of Arran be also set for closure . will the Leader of the House make a statement set out her support for these vital resource for the viability of our community , especially rural and island community ? do she agree that it be time to protect , in legislation , these crucial physical service in island and rural community ? I be sorry to hear about the potential situation that some of the hon . Lady ' s constituent will be in . she will know that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have make funding available to find solution to ensure that people have access to banking service or post office service , with those sometimes be run out of other premise . I be not across what might be available in her local area , but I can write to the Secretary of State to ask his official to contact her office to signpost she to what support be available . even if stand - alone facility have to go , that do not mean that the service have to go , and there be some great example of how those service have be able to continue run across the country . may I , through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , thank Mr Speaker for facilitate the Constituency Garden of Remembrance , at which many of we have be lay memorial this week ? I will be place my own for constituent in Cardiff South and Penarth who have serve and be lose or injure over generation of conflict and war . I think in particular of the diverse community who have serve — our diverse Christian , Muslim , Hindu , Sikh and jewish community , and indeed many other , include those from across our Commonwealth . I should also mention our merchant navy , which be specifically remember on Saturday in Cardiff bay . may we have a debate on the excellent work of not only the Royal British Legion , which have be refer to by a number of member , but other veteran ' organisation in our constituency ? I think of the work of Woody ' s Lodge and the Welsh Veterans Partnership in my constituency , which do so much to support those who have serve , often where there have be life - affect issue . those organisation do excellent work and it be right that we remember they , as well as all those we have lose . I join the hon . gentleman in thank the House staff and all member who have make use of the way in which we can remember those from our constituency who have fall , such as the memorial garden and the service that take place yesterday against the war memorial at the top of the Westminster Hall stair — it be much appreciated . he have get on the record what I be sure be just a fraction of the incredible organisation in his constituency , and I thank he for do that . this be one reason why we have set up the Office for Veterans ' Affairs . we want to be able to commission service directly for veteran — something that could not be do as part of the Ministry of Defence . we must ensure that this country be the good place in the world to be a veteran , and I thank all member who will be take part in service and say thank you to their veteran community this weekend . a recent ruling by the inner house of the Court of Session in Edinburgh put beyond any doubt that the ill - conceive Gender Recognition Reform ( Scotland ) Bill of the Scottish Government impinge significantly on the Equality Act 2010 , the sex - base right of woman and the same - sex right of lesbian , gay and bisexual people . we have have a debate in Westminster Hall to discuss redefine and have precision in law about the word " sex " . will the Leader of the House discuss this matter , and the possibility of bring in legislation to clarify the definition of " sex " in the 2010 Act in the future , with her Equalities and Justice colleague ? I know that the Secretary of State be very across this issue , and I think that that judgment be a helpful thing to have take place . we deeply regret the lack of understanding on these matter about the need — whatever the Governments and Administrations in other part of the UK wish to do — to bear in mind the social fabric of the UK . tear at that social fabric , what it be to be a citizen and the value and norm that we live under be a bad thing . we also need to ensure that we be uphold what be in the 2010 Act . I shall make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . I would welcome the Leader of the House ' s advice on how to expedite a response from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office for my constituent who be desperate to return home from Kyiv with their newborn son , who be bear in September in Ukraine through surrogacy and for whom they be seek an emergency travel document . I totally understand the importance of complete the passport application process , but my constituent have a vulnerable baby who need to be care for at home and a three - year - old back here in the UK who desperately need her parent back . I be sorry to hear about that situation . if the hon . Lady liaise with my office after this session , to give I the detail and information about what she have already do , we will give her advice about how we can try to speed the process up for she . as an advert to other member , the Home Office still offer bespoke surgery ; caseworker can sit down with they here or online , and go through case that be stick in the system . Wick harbour in my constituency suffer damage in the recent storm . if that be not deal with very fast indeed , it could jeopardise the future use of the harbour . in the same storm , a section of sea defence beside the main railway line from Inverness to the far north fall away , so we have no train , which be a vital transport link , for a length of time . the Leader of the House might say these be matter for the Scottish Government , but I would argue that they be strategic to the United Kingdom . far to her previous answer , will she encourage official at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to speak to the Scottish Government , and possibly the Highland Council , about these issue , so we can get they put right as fast as possible ? I be sorry to hear about that situation . the hon . Gentleman be right that unless these thing be take care of and mitigate , future bad weather will exacerbate the situation . I will make some inquiry on his behalf . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs may well be able to assist he more than some other Departments . in time of great crisis , we always ensure that the Scottish Government and local authority across the UK be able to make a request for military aid to the civil authority , in order to get assistance from UK armed force to keep our community safe . I will make some inquiry on behalf of the hon . Gentleman and contact his office . this week , after three year of threaten journalist at the Guardian and elsewhere with legal action , wealthy business tycoon Douglas Barrowman and Michelle Mone finally admit that they be indeed behind the dodgy covid company PPE Medpro Ltd . the Government have repeatedly promise to outlaw the practice of dodgy lawyer and dodgy client use the threat of legal action to prevent the freedom of the press from report the truth in the public interest . will the Leader of the House clarify which of the Bills announce in the King ' s Speech will fulfil that promise and outlaw the practice once and for all ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important point . as someone who have be subject to such threat myself , I think these matter be very important . we do work on this in the previous Session . there be ongoing work in the Ministry of Justice and other Departments to ensure that people be able to whistleblow . in other part of Government , we have move to protect individual who find themselves in different but similar set of circumstance , particularly relate to issue of employment and sexual harassment . I thank the Leader of the House for answer the business question . Artificial Intelligence Safety Summit with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement about the Government ' s artificial intelligence safety summit . today I update the House about a turning point in our history . with 1 % of the world ' s population , we have build the third large ai sector . we have rocket ourselves to a 688 % increase in AI company base themselves here in less than a decade , and UK AI scale - up be raise almost double that of France , Germany and the rest of Europe combine . but the sudden and unprecedented growth in the speed and power of artificial intelligence present unlimited opportunity along with the potential of grave risk , which we can not ignore . I truly believe that we stand at a crossroad in human history . to turn the wrong way would be a monumental miss opportunity for mankind , which be why last week present such a watershed moment . we convene leader , Ministers , developer , scientist and academic from across the globe to discuss for the first time the risk and opportunity of frontier AI . although the collection of country and organisation that come to Bletchley Park be unprecedented , our goal from the start be to leave with tangible outcome . let I briefly outline a handful of action that have result from the summit . first , 28 country and the European Union , represent the majority of the world ' s population , sign up to an unprecedented agreement know as the Bletchley declaration . despite some claim that such a declaration would be reject by many country in attendance , we agree that , for the good of all , AI should be design , develop , deploy and use in a manner that be safe , human - centric , trustworthy and responsible . we agree on the protection of human right , transparency and explainability , fairness , accountability , regulation , safety , appropriate human oversight , ethic , bias mitigation , privacy and data protection . we also agree to measure , monitor and mitigate potentially harmful capability and the associated effect that may emerge — in particular to prevent misuse and issue of control , and the amplification of other risk — and that ture prize winner Yoshua Bengio , credit as be one of the godfather of AI , would lead on a state of science report to ensure that , collectively , we stay on top of the risk of frontier AI . country with differ world view and interest , include China , sign the same agreement . some have say that China would not come to the summit , but it do . they say that , if it do attend , China would never sign an agreement , but it do . then they say that if China do sign the agreement , it would not agree to continue collaborate in the long term — but it do that as well . that alone would have make the summit a watershed moment in the history of AI safety , but we go far . we surpass all expectation by secure an agreement on government - lead testing pre - deployment of the model . this be truly a game changer to help ensure that we can safely harness the benefit of frontier AI while mitigate the risk . to facilitate it , the UK announce that the world - lead frontier taskforce will morph into the world ' s first permanent AI safety institute , which will bring together the very good AI mind in the world to research future risk and conduct third - party testing of model . this be just the start of the journey on AI safety , which be why we have also confirm funding for the institute for the rest of the decade and secure future AI safety summit to be hold in the Republic of Korea in six month ' time and in France in one year ' s time , ensure that the extraordinary pace of international action set by the summit last week be maintain into the future . none the less , the summit be just one piece in the UK ' s overall approach to AI safety . our White Paper publish early this year be praise for ensure that the UK can be agile and responsive as risk emerge . I be sure that Opposition Members will call for a one - size - fit - all " snapshot in time " piece of legislation , but we must ensure that we deepen our understanding of the problem before we rush to produce inadequate legislation . we also need to ensure that we be quick enough to act , which be why we have take the step to ensure that we can keep pace with the development of the technology , with the next set of model be release within six month . AI be the fast emerge technology that we have ever see , and we need a system that can identify , evaluate and understand AI to then allow we to mitigate the risk with the right guardrail . that be why it be such an achievement to agree the pre - deployment testing of model ; we should not underestimate that achievement . company need to do more too , which be why before the summit we manage to go far than any country ever have . we secure the publication of the main AI company ' safety policy , along with a catalogue of the possible policy , ensure transparency and a race to the top , complement by the recent US executive order . it be also why I have be advocate for responsible capability scaling , which I often refer to as a kind of smoke alarm for AI developer . the release of chatgpt not even a year ago be a breakthrough moment for humanity . we be all surprised by the progress . we see the acceleration of investment into , and adoption of , AI system at the frontier , make they increasingly powerful and consequential to our life . these system could turbocharge our public service , save life in the NHS and tailor education to every child ' s need . they could free people everywhere from tedious work and amplify our creative ability . they could help our scientist to unlock bold new discovery , open the door to a world where one day disease such as cancer will no long exist and there will be access to near - limitless clean energy . but these system could also far concentrate unaccountable power in the hand of a few , or be maliciously use to undermine societal trust , erode public safety or threaten international security . the british people deserve to know that those who represent they in this place be drive forward the right guardrail and governance for the safe development and deployment of frontier AI system . I firmly believe that it can not be leave to chance or private actor alone , nor be it an issue for party political squabbling or point scoring . as we stand here today , what be once consider science fiction be quickly become science fact . just a few year ago , the most advanced AI system could barely write coherent sentence . now they can write poetry , help doctor to detect cancer , and generate photo - realistic image in a split second , but with those incredible advance come potentially grave risk , and we refuse to bury our head in the sand . we can not ignore or dismiss the countless expert who tell we plain and simple that there be risk of human lose control , that some model output could become completely unpredictable , and that the societal impact of AI advance could seriously disrupt safety and security here at home . country enter the summit with diverse and conflicting view of the world . some speculate that a deal between the country invite would be impossible , but what we achieve in just two day at Bletchley Park will be remember as the moment that the world come together to begin solve an unprecedented global challenge . an international approach be not just preferable , but absolutely essential . some member understandably question the decision to invite China to the summit , and I do not dismiss the very real concern and grievance that many on both side of the House might have have , but a Government who represent the british people must ultimately do what be right for the british people , especially when it come to keep they safe . I be firm that it be the right decision for the country in the long term . there simply can not be a substantive conversation about AI without involve the world ' s lead AI nation , and China be currently second in the world in AI . AI be not some phenomenon that be happen to we ; it be a force that we have the power to shape and direct . I believe that we have a responsibility — and , in fact , a duty — to act and to act now . I conclude by take we back to the beginning : 73 year ago , Alan Turing dare to ask whether computer would one day think . from his vantage point at the dawn of the field , he observe that " we can only see a short distance ahead , but we can see plenty there that need to be do . " for we in this place , there be indeed plenty that need to be do , but we can not do it in isolation , so I urge member across the House to adopt the collaborative , constructive approach that the international community display at Bletchley last week . if we in this place put our difference aside on this issue and work pragmatically on behalf of the british people , this new era of artificial intelligence can truly benefit every person and community across the country and beyond . our summit be a successful step forward , but we be only just get start . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . as we have hear , the opportunity of AI be almost endless . it have the potential to transform the world and deliver life - change benefit for work people . from deliver early cancer diagnosis to relieve traffic congestion or provide personalised tuition to child , AI can be a force for good . it be already have a positive impact in the present : in NHS hospital such as the Huddersfield Royal Infirmary , AI be be use to help patient , cut waiting list and save life . the Labour party want that technology to be available in every hospital with our fit for the future fund . however , to secure those benefit we must get on top of the risk and we must build public trust . we welcome the announcement make last week at Bletchley Park . the future summit in South Korea and France will hopefully lead to more agreement between nation about how we make this new technology work for everyone . the AI safety institute will play an important role in make this new technology safe . labour support its creation , but we do have some question . it would be good to hear the Secretary of State explain why the new institute be not keep the function of identify new use for AI in the public sector . as the institute be take all the AI expertise from the taskforce , it be also unclear who in her Department will carry out the crucial role of identify how the public sector can benefit from cut - edge technology . there be also question about UK computer capability . the AI safety institute policy paper state : " run evaluation and advance safety research will also depend on access to compute . " yet early this year , the Government have less computing power than Finland and Italy . can the Secretary of State update the House on how much of the AI research resource to which the institute will get priority access be available and operational ? of course , the main task of the institute be to understand the risk of the most advanced current AI capability and any future development . the Prime Minister tell the public two week ago that , " AI could make it easy to build chemical or biological weapon . terrorist group could use AI to spread fear and destruction on an even great scale . criminal could exploit AI for cyber - attack , disinformation , fraud , or even child sexual abuse . " those be stark warning and demand urgent action from any Government . keep the public safe be the first duty of Government . yet minister have choose not to bring forward any legislation on the most advanced AI . all the commitment that have be make be voluntary , and that create problem . for example , if a new company be establish with advanced capability , how will it be compel to join the voluntary scheme ? what if a company decide it do not want to co - operate any more ? be there a mechanism to stop that happen ? the stake be too high for those question to remain open , so I look forward to the Secretary of State ' s be able to offer we more detail . there be a space for a Bill on pedicab in London in the King ' s Speech this year , but not for one on frontier AI . other country , such as the US , have move ahead with mandatory regulation for safety and security . it be confusing for the public to hear a Prime Minister on the one hand tell the country that there be danger to our way of life from AI , but on the other hand say that his Government be in no rush to regulate . labour have call for the introduction of bind regulation on those company develop the most powerful frontier AI because , for we , the security of the british people will always come first . I hope that the Government will now consider take action and I look forward to the Secretary of State ' s response to these point . I agree with the hon . gentleman on the importance of build trust among the public , which will also ensure the adoption of AI . in relation to ensure that we deploy AI throughout our public service , it be this Government who just the other week announce £ 100 million to accelerate AI in our health mission , and more than £ 2 million to assist our teacher to spend less time with paperwork and administration and more time in the classroom . we will continue to work hand in hand with the Cabinet Office to ensure that we utilise AI in our public service , but to be able to do that , we must of course grip the risk , which be exactly why we call the summit . on computing , the hon . Member will be only too aware that the Chancellor of the Exchequer announce early this year £ 900 million for an exascale programme , which we have allocate in Edinburgh . we have also dedicate £ 300 million — triple the original amount announce — to AI research resource facility in Cambridge and Bristol , the first of which will come on stream this year . the hon . Member also reference the risk document that we publish . we be the first Government in the world to be fully transparent with the british public , showcase the risk that AI could present . that document be produce by scientist and our national security team . the hon . member reference legislation and regulation . it be not true that we have no regulation ; in fact , we have multiple regulator . in the White Paper that we publish early this year , we set out the principle that they need to work to . we should not minimise what we achieve just last week : that agreement to do test pre - deployment be monumental . it be — absolutely — the start of a process , not the end . we could have wait and say , " let ' s just do our own piece of legislation , " which would have take about a year , as he know , but we do not have a year to wait , because the next set of model will come out with six month . we also need to deepen our understanding of the risk before we rush to legislate , because we believe that we need to well understand the problem before we insert long - term fix solution . we need to concentrate on put the safety of the british public first , which be what we have do , so that we can seize the limitless opportunity of AI . I hope that the hon . Member will see the foresight that this Government have have in put that not just on the british agenda but on the agenda of the world . I call the Chair of the Science and Technology Committee . may I congratulate the Government on convene the summit and on its success ? it be , as the Secretary of State say , a considerable achievement to get the US , the EU and China to agree a communiqu é . it be good to have access to the frontier model that the summit agree . have future summit , in six month ' time , be also an important step forward . as the Secretary of State say , the summit focus principally on frontier AI , but it be vital that we can deal with the here - and - now risk of the AI be deploy already . in the White Paper that they publish in March , the Government say that they expect to legislate to have regulator pay " due regard to the principle " of that White Paper , but such a Bill be miss from the King ' s Speech . meanwhile , in the US , a very extensive executive order have be issue , and the EU be finalise its Artificial Intelligence Act . will the Secretary of State think again , in publish the response to the White Paper , about take this final opportunity before a general election to ensure that the good intention and practice of the Government be not inadvertently leave behind , with other jurisdiction ' legislation precede our own and other people set the rule rather than the United Kingdom set a framework for the world ? I thank my right hon . friend for his important question . I think it be right that we do not rush to legislate , because we need to understand properly the risk that we be face . that be why we have be invest in bring on board the correct expert , both into Government and into the taskforce that will now morph into the institute . it be why we have also commit not just ourselves but our international partner to produce the " state of the science " report , so that we can stay up to date with those risk . absolutely , we will eventually have to legislate , but as we say in the White Paper that we publish early this year , we do not need to rush to do that ; we need to get the timing right to ensure that we have the right solution to match those problem . there be a lot that we can do without legislation . we demonstrate that last week by convene the world for collective action to secure pre - model deployment testing , to ensure that we work together to get a well handle on the risk , and to encourage partner such as America to go far , on which we have see we and they act in lockstep . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . the Bletchley declaration provide a baseline and be useful as a starting point , but it will be ongoing engagement that count as we develop our understanding of the opportunity and threat that AI present . I be very take by the Secretary of State say that this be not an opportunity for party political point scoring . in that vein , on reflection , do she share my disappointment that the UK Government seem to actively take step to exclude the involvement of the devolved Administrations from around these island from participation in the summit ? any claim that the UK might have to global leadership in AI rest in large part on the work that go on in all part of these island , particularly from a legal , ethical , regulatory and technological perspective . it would have be very valuable have the other government that exist on these island have the opportunity to fully participate in the summit . while the declaration be a useful starting point , it be the future work on this that will count , so may I have an assurance from the Secretary of State that the UK Government will not seek to curtail again the involvement of devolved Administrations around these island in future national and international discussion on these matter ? I meet my counterpart — and my counterpart from Wales — just day before the summit , but as the hon . Member will appreciate , AI be not a devolved matter , and the people of Scotland be represent by the UK Government . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and the frontier taskforce for all the work it have do to produce an important global moment not dissimilar to the COP process . my question be about the AI safety team . in Lancashire we have the National Cyber Force centre come in Samlesbury , and there be already a big skill base in the region , with GCHQ in Manchester . can she update I and my constituent on how AI safety will get feed into our national security and how she will work with the National Cyber Force centre ? I know that my hon . friend be a passionate advocate of cyber - security , which be one key area that we delve into at the summit . it be incredibly important that we maintain cyber - security throughout not just our government and public service but our business , which be why we have be prioritise the area in the UK . I continue to talk to my hon . friend and other member about this work . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . on her reference to poetry , may I remind she that AI create nothing ? it generate a facsimile of text , but it do not create poetry . on the 400th anniversary of the first folio , that can only be do by this quintessence of dust that we be . on that point , why be the creative industry exclude from the AI summit , when the Secretary of State know how bitterly disappointed they be not to be include and how profoundly existential this whole issue be for the creative industry — one of the most successful and fast grow sector of our economy ? instead , they have be offer the sop of a side roundtable in the future , which the platform be not even attend . will the Secretary of State think again about the importance of include our excellent creative industry in every discussion that the Government have about the future of artificial intelligence ? because the summit be only two day and be focus on a strategic conversation about frontier and the risk and opportunity , not everybody could be engage and attend . we have an extensive programme call the road to the summit , where several roundtable be hold with the creative industry , and both the Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure and I attend . the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport lead some roundtable as well . we be currently work on a code of practice , bring together the creative sector and the AI sector , to identify and come up with some of the solution in this area . it be a great pleasure to join the Secretary of State , the Prime Minister , and business and Government leader from around the world last week at the AI safety summit . do the Secretary of State agree that Milton Keynes showcase that it be an excellent place to not only hold global event , but to invest in technology such as AI and robotic ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I could not have think of a well place to host this international summit than Bletchley Park . it be not just I who think so : all of our delegate remark on how important it be to host it at such a historically significant venue , one so close to the vibrant tech capital of Milton Keynes . the Bletchley Park declaration be indeed to be welcome . give the more or less consensual response to the Secretary of State ' s statement , it strike I that take this issue forward on a cross - party basis be go to be absolutely crucial . there be no mention of legislation in the King ' s Speech , and although I partially accept the Secretary of State ' s point about the time involve in legislate , government of all colour come and go , but this issue transcend those change . can we get an undertaking from the Secretary of State that there will be discussion right across the Chamber involve all the party about where she see thing go and what legislation may have to be look at in the future , in order to give continuity ? I be more than happy to talk to anybody from around the House , and to convene a meeting with colleague of all colour to discuss this important area and what the future may hold in term of response and action . it be in 1993 that the world wide web first become accessible to the public , and 30 year on , the world be still grapple with how to regulate and legislate for this industry . I be pleased that we hear from the summit that we be go to have proactive model checking , but I agree with the Chair of the Select Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) , that much of this AI technology be already out there — that be the problem . how quickly will the safety institute be set up , and most importantly , how quickly will we see tangible result ? can we learn lesson from the vaccine , and from the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency on how legislation and regulation can run alongside innovation in this sector ? in fact , we be learn some of those lesson , because the taskforce itself be model on our world - lead vaccine taskforce . as to when the institute will be set up , to all intent and purpose it have already be set up , because it be the next chapter — the evolution — of the exist taskforce . that taskforce have already do research on safety , and have demonstrate to delegate at the summit the full potential of the risk that could be apparent . it have already begin test those model , and I can assure this House that there will be pre - deployment testing of the model that be go to come out within the next six month . the first folio have be quote . I would like to quote a more recent famous science fiction series : one Commander Adama , who say , " you can not play God then wash your hand of the thing that you ' ve create . " I absolutely agree that there be huge opportunity in AI , but we have already hear about the huge risk . the Secretary of State say that we should not rush to legislation , but the truth be that we have often lag behind in this area — for example , in regulate social medium — and we see other move ahead , include the United States , as we have hear . the EU be also plan legislation by the end of the year . if we be not have legislation , can the Secretary of State at least assure we that an urgent assessment be be make of how hostile state be already weaponise AI for military and other purpose , include information , cyber and hybrid warfare , but also in the chemical , biological , radiological and nuclear sphere ? some hugely worrying stuff be happen out there . be we urgently assess it , and decide how we will respond and defend this country ? let I pull up the hon . member on one comment he make , which be about we lag behind on legislation for social medium . we be in fact lead the world with the world ' s most comprehensive Bill — now Act — in that area . on the misuse of AI , this be one of the three pillar of risk that we discuss at the summit . the risk document that we publish just before the summit highlight the fact that AI can amplify exist risk . there be already risk present by the internet and other technology in relation to biochemical warfare — they be present today and we be deal with they . this could potentially amplify that , and we have certainly both talk about that internationally and be work on it domestically . we will be come back to our White Paper within the year . historically , every revolution at a time of technology lead to threat of job loss — people not have opportunity to work , which be dreadful for people ' s life . however , here we be today with almost full employment in the UK , and there be opportunity for AI to increase that , as well as to make people ' s life easy , improve employment prospect and , indeed , conquer disease . will my right hon . friend set out some of the advantage for the average individual of harness artificial intelligence for the benefit of all humankind ? the opportunity from AI be limitless , and they can transform our public service . in fact , that be already happen . we see our doctor detect cancer early , and we see we utilise the technology to try to tackle thing such as climate change more quickly . in relation to job , my hon . friend be quite right that AI , like any technology , will change the labour market . if we look back to 1940 , we see that 60 % of job we have now do not actually exist back then . AI will create new job , and job we can not even think of , but it will also complement our job now , allow we more time to do the bit of our job we actually train to do — for example , assist teacher to have more time in the classroom and doctor to have more time with patient . during the covid pandemic , one of my great concern be the over - reliance on and the promotion of lateral flow device as a gold standard , as it be , of testing and surveillance . it be all the more frustrating because , during that time , I be aware of domestic business that be develop AI model to surveil not just covid , but other virus , such as Ebola and dengue fever . I have a recent very constructive meeting with Health , which be now on board with AI and look at domestic diagnostic . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how these business can be bring forward as part of a co - ordinate strategy to develop ai testing and prepare effectively for any future pandemic ? I would be more than happy to meet the hon . member . sorry , but not only do I not buy the Secretary of State ' s excuse for not include devolve government in the summit when my constituency alone be burst with leading fintech , cyber - security and creative organisation , but I do not buy her excuse for not introduce regulation more rapidly . she have say herself that the game - change chatgpt be introduce a year or so ago , and the EU be rapidly approach completion of its first AI Act . why have her government once again be catch nap on introduce regulation ? to repeat the comment I make early , AI be not a devolved matter , and the people of Scotland be represent by the UK Government — by I and also by the Prime Minister of the UK . in relation to she urge we to do a copycat of EU legislation , may I point out that it be our White Paper that be praise for its innovation and its agility ? it have allow we to attract some of the lead AI company to set up their first international office here in the UK , create the job not only of today , but of tomorrow . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . debate on the Address [ 3rd Day ] Debate resume ( Order , 8 November ) . question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . make Britain a Clean Energy Superpower it be a pleasure to open today ' s King ' s Speech debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government . throughout history , economy have succeed when they can source enough cheap and secure energy . now , as we face a new challenge — the global challenge of climate change — it be important that we source enough clean energy too . we have be a coal superpower and an oil superpower ; if the opposition be look for a clean energy superpower , they should look no far . Britain today be a clean energy superpower , and our plan will enable we to go much far . while the Labour party never cease to talk this country down , I be proud that we be lead the world in this great energy challenge . in the first quarter of this year , 48 % of our power come from renewable , up from just 7 % in 2010 . we be a world leader in offshore wind . we have increase our country ' s renewable energy capacity fivefold since 2010 — more than any other comparable Government . we be build new nuclear for the first time since Margaret Thatcher ' s Government , and this brilliant innovation nation be lead the world in new technology like small modular nuclear reactor and fusion energy . as recently as 2012 , coal be generate 40 % of UK electricity , but we be now on course to be one of the first major economy with power that be coal - free . this work lead by the Conservatives be dramatically reduce our greenhouse gas emission . we have have the fast reduction in emission of any major economy , down almost 50 % since 1990 . meanwhile France be down 23 % , the US have not change at all , and China have increase its emission by 300 % . and we be not stop here . which be the major economy with the most ambitious target to cut emission by 2030 ? be it the US , at 40 % ? be it the EU , at 55 % ? no , it be the United Kingdom at 68 % . I be very conscious that the net zero target be set for the United Kingdom , but unfortunately Northern Ireland can not participate nor can we add our physical support to achieve those target , because the contract for difference scheme be not in place in Northern Ireland . I have speak to our Ministers about this . will the Secretary of State also look at this on behalf of all the constituent in Northern Ireland who want to contribute to achieve the net zero target and be part of the contract for difference scheme ? I will happily look at that . the UK be the first major economy to set a legally bind date for net zero . our ambition for 2030 be ahead of those of our peer and we have the plan in place to meet they . in fact , we have meet every single one of our stretch target to reduce carbon emission , thank in no small part to our clean energy success . labour seem to have conveniently forget about the shameful state of our renewable sector when it leave office . just 7 % of our power come from renewable in 2010 ; today , thank to the action of the Conservatives , that figure stand at near 50 % . never forget that it be the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) who describe the idea of the UK get to 40 % renewable as " pie in the sky " . I have to correct the right hon . Lady ' s predecessor on the point she have just repeat . her mistake be quite basic , confuse electricity and energy . the Guido Fawkes blog — not an institution I often praise — point this out when her predecessor make this mistake . what I actually say — it come from David Laws ' memoir — be that it be pie in the sky to say we could have 40 % of our energy provide by renewable . currently , the figure be 18 % . the Secy of State ' s remark be inaccurate and wrong , and I would be grateful if she withdraw it . I will happily go and look at that , and take that point on board , but I will say that it stick with the trend of the right hon . Gentleman talk our energy and power down . I will read from David Laws ' memoir . during the coalition talk , I say , " all this stuff about get 40 % of energy production " — energy production — " from renewable by 2020 be just pie in the sky . " energy production from renewable be currently just 18 % . I would be grateful if the right hon . Lady correct the record . as I say , I will happily look at that , but the right hon . Gentleman have make comment about nuclear — I ask the Secretary of State for the third time . she claim that I say that it be " pie in the sky " that 40 % of our electricity could come from renewable . I do not say that , and I have point out to she the exact quote , where I talk about 40 % of energy come from renewable . when one have say something inaccurate about another hon . member in the House , the right thing to do be not to just keep read the conservative campaign headquarters line , but to correct the record . as I say , I be happy to do the right hon . Gentleman the courtesy of withdraw on this occasion , but I would also suggest that he correct the record himself about the fact that he say we need no new nuclear in the past . now that I be allow to move on , let I say that energy security mean national security , and that mean power Britain from Britain and make sure we never have to worry again about generate enough power to keep the light on or heat our home . we see what happen last year when Putin weaponise energy , and the full impact his illegal war in Ukraine have on energy bill for household around the world . I be proud that the Government step in with an unprecedented level of support , pay around half of people ' s energy bill . with continued global instability , I know that household be anxious about the come winter . that be why we have the energy price guarantee until April 2024 and why we will always protect the most vulnerable in society with target support such as the winter fuel payment , cost of living payment and the warm home discount . the Secretary of State be talk about energy bill , and thousand of my constituent be really struggle to pay their energy bill and be petrify about what the winter hold . on the medium round on Monday , the Secretary of State say there be nothing in this King ' s Speech to help people with their energy bill . what will she to say to those thousand of my constituent and indeed other constituent ? the Bill we be bring forward will unlock billion of pound in tax , which will go towards help with the programme I have just talk about — for example , the cost of live payment we be put in place . it will also unlock billion of pound of investment , which will go towards a greener transition , and I be sure the hon . Lady will agree that have more renewable energy in the future will contribute to low bill for her constituent . our leadership be bring wealth to our economy and to british worker . since 2010 , we have secure £ 200 billion in low - carbon investment , with potentially up to £ 375 billion on the way . carbon capture will see 50 , 000 high - skilled british job in place such as Teesside and the Humber . our world - lead offshore wind farm will see 90 , 000 job from Aberdeen to Cornwall by 2030 . that be the difference between a Conservative Government , focus on attract business , investment and job and create livelihood , and Labour , with its same old plan to borrow , borrow , borrow , intent on rack up billion of pound of debt and then just leave hard - work family to pick up the bill . let we look at the record and the Government ' s plan to go far . we be a leader in offshore wind power . we do not just have the world ' s large offshore wind farm ; we have the second , the third and the fourth large , and we be now home to the fifth large too . we expect growth in offshore wind to deliver enough energy to power the equivalent of every home in Britain by 2030 and to support 90 , 000 job . and it be not just offshore wind ; it be float offshore wind too . we will generate enough solar energy to power 10 million electric vehicle by 2030 . will the Secretary of State tell we how much the UK ' s offshore float energy capacity will increase by as a result of the licensing round that have just close ? I would happily answer that point . the point the hon . Gentleman should understand be that a thrive oil and gas sector unlock investment in other renewable . there be people interested in float offshore wind who be part of the oil and gas sector now — the same subsea technology , the same people and the same skill will power our offshore wind and float offshore wind sector in the future . we be also fund eight groundbreaking project through our £ 1 billion net zero innovation portfolio to help we harvest the power of the sun from space . space - base solar could provide clean energy day and night in all weather and send it wirelessly to the Earth . Madam Deputy Speaker , I think you would agree that that be a superpower in itself . meanwhile , hydrogen hub in place such as Teesside be not only create the green hydrogen energy of the future , but bring investment back to area Labour leave behind . by 2030 , the sector could support up to 12 , 000 job and unlock up to £ 11 billion in private investment . however , hydrogen be not the only new technology we be support . in the last CfD allocation round , I be delighted to see that we have an unprecedented number of project support emerge technology such as tidal and , for the first time , geothermal energy . so our green transition mean up to £ 375 billion of investment and nearly half a million job across the UK . of course , our plan also mean that by 2050 we could see our demand for electricity double , fuel by our clean energy revolution , so we need to power up our electricity grid . I have make that my priority , and that be why I be end the first come , first serve approach to grid connection by raise the bar to enter the queue and ensure that those who be ready first will connect first . we will set out the UK ' s first ever spatial plan to give industry certainty and every community a say , and we will speed up planning for the most nationally significant project come forward with our response to electricity network commissioner Nick Winser ' s review come shortly . those plan alone could unlock £ 240 billion of investment and support 130 , 000 job . I turn to carbon capture and storage . we be invest £ 20 billion to make the most of our natural advantage in skill and geology . we have announce the first eight carbon capture network that we will take forward , which be in the north - east , the north - west and Wales , and the next two carbon capture cluster , which be in north - east Scotland and Humberside . those announcement put we on track to achieve between 20 million and 30 million tonne of capture and store carbon dioxide a year , which be equivalent to take 4 million to 6 million car off the road each year from 2030 . our plan will support 50 , 000 job by 2030 and add £ 5 billion to the economy by 2050 . what be more , with 78 billion tonne of potential storage in the continental shelf , the UK have the potential to become one of the great carbon storage basis in the world , thank to the geological goldmine we be lucky to have on our doorstep . renewable be not always predictable , as they rely on the british weather — and , sadly , we have yet to develop a technology that can harness all of Labour ' s hot air . that be why we be ramp up nuclear to help we become a clean energy superpower . the right hon . member for Doncaster North , who for year sit at Gordon Brown ' s side , do nothing to boost british nuclear , and other Labour Front - Bench Members have be naive enough to say that we do not need nuclear . we on the Government Benches be right their wrong . early this year , we set up great British Nuclear to spearhead our nuclear revival . we be build two new large - scale nuclear power station . in fact , each and every operational nuclear power plant in Britain begin its life under a Conservative Government . we be accelerate the development of small modular reactor , we be accelerate advanced modular reactor and we be lead the world in fusion energy . we be back this vision with £ 700 million . the House may not realise it , but we have the hot place in the solar system here in the UK , just under 50 mile away at the Culham Centre . my right hon . friend be make an amazing speech , show how much the Government have do for our environment . could she give we an idea of the timetable for the small nuclear reactor and when the first one be likely to be license ? I thank my hon . friend . we be work at pace to have the fast competition possible . we have just move past the first part of the process and will be set out more detail in the new year . as the Government continue to consider our long - term energy security of the future , it be only right that we support our british oil and gas community . even the Climate Change Committee acknowledge that oil and gas will be part of our energy mix when we reach net zero in 2050 . so if we will need it , it be common sense that we produce as much of our own of it here . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on nuclear energy , I hear that one of the big barrier to nuclear be not the investment that the Secretary of State talk about but planning and people . what will she do on that ? I have not hear anything so far in what have be propose to stop thing such as judicial review go in to stop nuclear power station be build . the hon . Lady be right to raise skill , people and planning . we have be look at way to speed all of that up and will be set out more detail by the end of the year . the King ' s Speech include legislation for award oil and gas licence each year , give industry the certainty it need to invest in job here in the UK . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make some progress . oil and gas be an industry that support 200 , 000 job and be expect to provide £ 50 billion of tax revenue in the next five year . that be the people and the money that the Labour party would send abroad , because it be not against oil and gas job , just against british oil and gas job — and for what ? to increase our reliance on import from foreign regime with high emission and to send away billion of pound of investment in carbon capture and hydrogen scheme . opposition member support those technology but would rather the taxpayer foot the bill for they . with our ambition on net zero and for our energy security , it be critical that we make the most of our own home - grow advantage , but Labour and the SNP ' s policy mean job abroad , investment lose and energy security sabotage . you do not have to take my word for it , Madam Deputy Speaker — the union be sound the alarm . it have be say that labour " do not … understand energy " , be self - harm and " naive " , and that its policy would leave our oil and gas community decimate , turn our oil and gas worker into the " coalminer of our generation " . those be not my word but those of the GMB and Unite . we want to keep job and manufacturing here , but Labour have not understand that we need natural gas supply . those be the word of industry . the important truth be that we know we need to transition to clean energy , but it be the same people , community and expertise that will unlock the green transition . the skill of those work on oil and gas rig today be the same skill that we will need for the offshore wind job of tomorrow . I be lose track of the number of time I have point out in this Chamber that just because we extract oil and gas from the North sea do not mean that it get use here . it get sell on global market to the high bidder , as we have say 100 time . when it come to annual licensing round , which the Secretary of State be flag up , be it not the case that the North Sea Transition Authority be already license in 2016 , 2017 , 2018 and 2019 ? it only stop because of the climate compatibility checkpoint . the test that she set out be not worth the paper that they be write on ; she know as well as we do that they be impossible not to meet , because they be set so low . will she stop pretend that the Bill be serious , and just admit that it be nothing more than a gimmick ? it be not a gimmick to protect 200 , 000 job . it be not a gimmick to protect the investment that will go into the clean energy of the future . on the hon . Lady ' s first point , 50 % for the gas supply that we use here come from domestic production . my right hon . friend be be generous in allow intervention . on the GMB leader ' s quote about oil and gas job become the coal job of the future , be it not the case that the people with oil and gas skill , who we really need to deliver the energy transition , will not be leave on the unemployment line , but will go and do their job overseas and deliver other country ' energy security and energy transition ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be lucky to have the skill , expertise and equipment in this country , which be the same skill that we need for a future in renewable energy . it be vital that we protect they and keep those skill here . to unnecessarily cut off those worker ’ livelihood in this country would wreck our clean energy ambition . we remain resolutely committed to our ambitious net zero target . more renewable energy ; a nuclear revival ; exciting new technology such as hydrogen , carbon capture and fusion ; and , where we need oil and gas , job for british worker — that be our vision for the future . a moment ago the Secretary of State quote the Climate Change Committee , which also say that expand fossil fuel production be not in line with net zero . by the Secretary of State ' s own admission on Monday , not a single Bill in the King ' s Speech will help family struggle with energy bill . how can the Government justify turbocharge new oil and gas , when that do nothing for the cost of live crisis and blow a hole in our climate ambition ? I be afraid the hon . Lady be quite mistaken . the Climate Change Committee ' s own datum show that when we reach net zero in 2050 , oil and gas will account for about 25 % of our energy mix . that be why it be important to ensure that if we need it , it come from here . there be two future here . one be the future I have just describe , where we cut our emission fast than any other major economy in the world ; we drive hundred of billion of pound of private investment in wind , nuclear and hydrogen ; we support UK industry with carbon capture ; we create a world - class export opportunity in our continental shelf ; we secure nearly half a million job , with our young people renowne globally for their expertise ; we bring supply chain and manufacturing capability to our industry heartland such as the Humber and Teesside ; our coastal community be renew ; and we protect our energy security and support family and business with the cost of energy . that be the future for Britain as a clean energy superpower . there be another future : a bleak world . imagine it be a grey day ; the last private investor have just pull out of the North sea . those community without the job to support they have disband . the right hon . member for Doncaster North be explain yet again why the Labour party have lade the country with debt . his mothballing of british oil and gas be see as the bad handling of our natural resource since his old boss sell the gold . Norway , with its ongoing oil and gas licence , be forge ahead with its green future . meanwhile , job in Russia be boom . our energy security have be jeopardise , as import from unstable region rise . that be the future we can expect from a party reliant on just stop Oil and Extinction Rebellion for idea . with an awful predictableness , this parallel world have once again prove the law of british politic : every single Labour Government in the past left unemployment higher . of course , that future be not a surprise to anyone . the right hon . Gentleman say , after all , that we should sacrifice economic growth to cut emission . [ interruption . ] he would like to borrow £ 28 billion in his blind ambition for 2030 , no matter the cost to ordinary people . just three day ago he say that protect the british oil and gas industry , 200 , 000 job and £ 50 billion of tax revenue be a stunt . but it be not a stunt to want to keep job in the UK , it be not a stunt to want to protect billion of pound of taxis and investment in this country , and it be certainly not a stunt to prioritise domestic security over the threat of dictator such as Putin . the british people have reject the right hon . Gentleman ' s argument before , and they will do so again . I be sure that he will today mention Great British Energy , a new labour entity about which we know only one thing for sure : it will be run badly , fund by the shadow Chancellor who , when she be not borrow other people ' s word , be recklessly borrow to fund labour ' s policy and leave the british people to pick up the bill . what will GB Energy really look like ? will it be like Labour Nottingham Council ' s version , Robin Hood Energy , which collapse in 2020 leave local taxpayer with £ 38 million of debt ? will it be like Labour - run Bristol ' s version , Bristol Energy , which also collapse , leave local people with loss of £ 43 million ? or will it be like Labour ' s 50 % stake in Warrington ' s Together Energy — people will get the pattern by this point — which also collapse , with a £ 37 million bill this time for local resident to pick up ? not content with bankrupt Birmingham and Croydon or skewer local taxpayer in Nottingham , Bristol and Warrington , Labour now want to bankrupt Britain . one thing be for sure : when Labour be in charge of your energy you will pay the price . energy transition do not happen very often and now we be on the brink of the most important one of all to reverse century of global warming and reach net zero and secure energy resilience by power Britain from Britain . it be only the Conservatives who have the plan to protect this country ' s energy security , to deliver the most ambitious 2030 emission cut of any major economy , to promote job and investment in the UK , and to help this country stand tall on the global stage . we will do that all without force family to choose between protect their family finance and protect the planet . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this Gracious Speech take place against a backdrop of three crisis face our country : the bad cost of living crisis in memory ; the long - term failure of our economy to work for work people , with stagnant growth over a decade ; and the climate and nature crisis we see all around we . the question at the heart of this debate be whether the Government ' s legislative programme unveil early this week in any way meet the scale of those challenge . the resounding answer be no . I be sure the Government think that they be be punish by the voter because the crisis this country face be so big , and that be probably true , but it be also because the politic they offer be so small . the King ' s Speech demonstrate that in abundance and nowhere be that more true than on climate and energy . here we be , the last king ' s Speech before the next general election and the Government release a two - clause political stunt of a Bill . they release it on Monday , during the bad cost of live crisis for generation , with energy bill still double what they be three year ago . million of people across our country — all of our constituent — be wonder what the Government be go to offer . on the day of the announcement , the Energy Secretary be ask a simple question by an interviewer : " will it make a difference to energy bill ? " for million watch , surely the answer have to be yes , because , after all , that be what her job be all about . but this be her answer : " it wouldn ' t necessarily bring energy bill down , that ' s not what we be say " . I commend the Energy Secretary for her outburst of candour . in a Government of fake news , it be good to have the occasional warrior for the truth . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? oh , I will , definitely , yes ! do the right hon . Gentleman acknowledge that I say it would also help fund renewable energy ? do he disagree with the view that a future with renewable energy would help to bring bill down ? I think that that be what we call wriggle . as I be say , I commend the Energy Secretary on her outburst of candour . she be right — she be tell it like it be — and , by the way , she be in good company . let I read this to the House : " myth extract more North Sea gas lower price . fact UK production isn ' t large enough to … impact the global price of gas . " who say that ? not somebody on this side of the House . [ interruption . ] no , not a former Chancellor . it be the current chairman of the Conservative party , the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) , when he be the Energy Minister . so here they be , they really be go to the country and say with a straight face , after all the pain and anguish that the british people have face , " here be our grand offer to you : the ' we win ' t cut your bill ' Bill . " that be the offer from the Secretary of State : " vote Conservative , and we promise we win ' t cut your energy bill . " no wonder the Back Benchers be despair . the Government could have do so much . they could have lift the onshore wind ban to cut energy bill , but they do not . they could have legislate for a proper programme of energy efficiency to cut bill , but they do not . [ interruption . ] I will happily give way to the Energy Secretary ' s parliamentary private Secretary if he would like to intervene . I can not . never mind then . keep quiet . the Government could have legislate to change planning rule to speed up renewable and cut energy bill , but they do not . they do not seem to realise how tin - eare , how out of touch , how absurd they look . so how do we end up with this Bill ? the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , who be not allow to intervene , think it be about energy security , and that be what the Secretary of State say . the truth be , however , that she be try to peddle an illusion , and I suspect that she know it . fossil fuel , with their market control by petro - state and dictator and their price set internationally , can not give we energy security . that be the obvious basic lesson of the past two year . whether gas be produce in the North sea or import from abroad , we pay the same price . how much do we import from Russia at the beginning of the crisis ? it be 5 % — but we be the bad hit country in western Europe , not because of our import from Russia but because of the way in which the price be set on the international market . I can not put it any well than the National Infrastructure Commission , which say just three week ago : " Reliance on fossil fuel mean exposure to geopolitical shock that impact the price of these internationally trade commodity . " we have have North sea licensing for the last 40 year in this country . if more of it be the answer , the british people would not have face the pain that they have . accord to Energy UK , new oil and gas licence " will not lower customer bill or significantly improve the UK ' s energy security . " the right hon . Gentleman make a very good point early about the difference between the percentage of renewable for electricity and the percentage of renewable for energy overall , include heat and transport . do he acknowledge that the United Kingdom be currently 75 % dependent on oil and gas , and do he agree with the member of the Climate Change Committee , who have state that themselves , and who have predict that by 2050 , when we get to net zero , the proportion will still be about 20 % ? I think the Climate Change Committee be actually say that its most ambitious scenario , which we should be aim for , be for we to cut the use of gas by 90 % . we be go to carry on use North sea oil and gas , but the question for the hon . Gentleman , and for the whole House , be this : do we choose , for the future , to carry on drill every last drop ? that be the Government ' s policy , in contravention of all the scientific advice , which be that we will end up in a 3 ° world — need billion of pound of taxpayer subsidy to bring about that investment through persuasion , and divert investment from the private sector . personally , I do not think that that be the right choice . the lesson of this crisis be one that the Government should have learn , and one that other country around the world have learn : the only way to get energy security be to sprint for clean power . that be why the Government ' s onshore wind ban be such a disaster . that be why their offshore wind auction be such a disaster . that be why their energy efficiency failure be such a disaster . this Bill neither protect we on price nor give we energy security . here be the thing , the Bill be not motivate by million of people lie awake at night , worry about the cost of living crisis ; it be motivate by a Prime Minister lie awake at night , worry about the conservative party crisis . the interesting thing be that this Bill be plan well before the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) become Energy Secretary . it be the last desperate throw of the dice by what we might call the no . 10 galaxy brain , to use climate change as what they call a " wedge issue . " they say this to the newspaper all the time . series 1 of this new strategy be air in September , when the party of Churchill and Thatcher become the peddler of wacky conspiracy theory they find on the internet : abolish the mythical seven bin ; end the imaginary threat of compulsory car sharing ; say no to invent conspiracy theory on 15 - minute city ; and fight the fictional meat tax . and now we have a sequel . no long a few throw - away conspiracy theory , this be now the central strategy of their legislative programme . member should not take my word for it . it be what the Prime Minister ' s adviser brief to the paper day after day . one paper I read on Monday report that the Prime Minister want to " weaponise climate change " as a wedge issue . where the british people see an energy crisis force up their bill , the Government see a wedge issue . where the british people ask how they can have liveable town and city with good transport , the Government see a wedge issue . where the british people worry about the effect of the climate crisis on their kid and grandkid , the Government see a wedge issue . the point be that the Government can not really deny it , because they know this be what they be say every day . " we think there be a big opportunity for the conservative party to try to create division on climate change . " that be why the Prime Minister use word like " eco - zealot . " it be all very transparent . they be lock in the boot of a strategy . whether they agree with it or not , that be what be happen . this be the problem . the right hon . Gentleman call it a wedge issue but , in his own language , he boil it down to a binary issue . it be not a binary question of whether we have oil and gas or whether we have renewable ; it be about an energy mix . do he realise that , last year , there be 260 day — by my math , that be get on for nearly three quarter of the year — when there be not enough wind to generate enough power for this nation ' s need ? whether he like it or not , we will need to have an energy mix . it be something that he just do not seem to understand . I be afraid that all the hon . Gentleman be point out be the Government ' s failure to go fast enough in drive towards renewable . of course we need a mix of energy , but this be the question for the House and the country : do we decide that drill every last drop , which be the Government ' s position and which would be a climate disaster , be the right strategy ? or do we decide that the right way to go be home - grow clean power ? we say it be home - grow clean power . the problem be that all the nonsense the Government be come out with really matter , and it worry I . by the way , I think it will be an electoral disaster for they , and we already see that because the intelligent conservative be ask , " why be we do all this ? " member on both side of the House do this together . we build a consensus on climate over the past 20 year , to work across party and not to weaponise it . People look at America and say . " well , America have a culture war on climate . thank goodness we do not have that in Britain . " that be the case until this Prime Minister — not the previous Prime Minister , or the Prime Minister before she — decide to do it . on the day of the Prime Minister ' s climate u - turn , the Home Secretary have a licence to go out and say that the danger of climate action be that it will " bankrupt " the country . the Home Secretary freelance on most issue , but on this issue she be actually speak for the Prime Minister , because it be echo by other Cabinet Ministers . this be a massive retreat from the position of both party for two decade , that leadership on climate be not somehow a danger to our economy but be the way to seize and build our economic future . they have open the door to the old , discredit idea that we can choose either our economy or the climate , but not both . it be not just a retreat from the consensus ; it be a retreat from reality . the reality be that there be a global race , with country seek to go far and fast to create the job of the future . no wonder business be horrify . just last Monday , Amanda Blanc , the chief executive of Aviva , warn about the Government ' s commitment to unlimited oil and gas drilling . she say that our climate goal as a country be " under threat " , which " put at clear risk the job , growth and the additional investment the UK require " . the Government try to claim that this be somehow consistent with climate leadership . I mean , come off it ! seven hundred british climate scientist oppose the change , and so do the International Energy Agency and the Climate Change Committee , which my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) quote : " expansion of fossil fuel production be not in line with Net Zero . " the Government ' s own net zero tsar , the right hon . member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) , who be in his place , also oppose they . they appoint he to advise they on climate and energy . they say how brilliant he be , and I agree — sorry to ruin his career even far . he be a very intelligent guy . [ interruption . ] he be deny it . he have great idea , and what do he say ? " there be no such thing as a new net zero oilfield . " those be not my word , and they be not the word of eco - zealot or just stop oil ; they be the word of the right hon . Gentleman , who sit on the Government Benches . he sign the net zero target into law , for goodness ' sake . we have to grow up . in contrast to the right hon . Gentleman , we have the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , whom I like — [ interruption . ] I do . we have work together on climate , but I will now say something not so nice about he . this be what he say yesterday : " there be nothing fundamentally wrong with oil and gas , it ' s emission from oil and gas that be the problem " . for goodness ' sake — what do that even mean ? here we be : the people who know what they be talk about do not speak for the conservative party , and the people who speak for the conservative party do not know what they be talk about . I can tell the Secretary of State and her colleague that this strategy be doom to fail . the british people do not want a Government who say , " we be go to weaponise the climate crisis . " they do not want a Government who say , " we be desperate . we be behind in the poll " — I remember that feeling — " and we therefore have to turn this into a wedge issue . " they want a Government who will cut bill and tackle the climate crisis . all the Government be do day after day with all this nonsense be prove that they be not the answer . what would a Labour King ' s Speech have do ? today , every family be pay £ 180 more on their bill as a result of the onshore wind ban that have be in place since 2015 . the Government could have lift the ban but , two month ago , they do not . they offer a weak , half - hearted compromise that will make no difference . as renewableuk say , " the planning system be still stack against onshore wind " . why not lift the onshore wind ban ? why be it hard to build an onshore wind farm than an incinerator ? the Government have to shell out billion of pound in subsidy when the energy crisis hit . I think those subsidy would have be something like £ 5 billion less if we have not have the onshore wind ban . then we have offshore wind and the disastrous auction , which add £ 2 billion to bill , accord to the industry . a Labour King ' s Speech would legislate to lift the ban on onshore wind , to speed up the planning process and to sort out the grid , so we can decarbonise our power system by 2030 . clean power be the foundation , and next come energy efficiency . I be afraid that here the Government have utterly fail , and their complacency be extraordinary . this be what the Climate Change Committee say about the whole sector : " since 2010 progress have stall , with no far substantive reduction in emission . " it have be a shambolic 13 year . we all know the litany : the disaster of the green deal , the green home grant , David Cameron ' s " cut the green crap " . insulation measure be run at 1 . 6 million in 2010 , and last year — any offer ? — they be run at 78 , 000 , which be 20 time low . a Labour Government would do what the country be cry out for and have a proper plan , fund by public investment , ramp up to £ 6 billion a year to provide support for home insulation and low - carbon heating . next , let we talk about the green economy and build our economic future . the Government be never short of boast about their record , but we be actually eighth out of eight major country in Energy UK ' s projection for renewable investment up to 2030 . and get this : in the seven month after the passage of the US Inflation Reduction Act , which the Government do not like , the US create almost 10 time more green job than the UK create in the previous seven year . so in seven month , the US create 10 time more job than we do in seven year . what be the Government ' s response to the Inflation Reduction Act ? they say it be " dangerous " , " distortive " and " protectionist " . this be not some accident ; they do believe that this be a role government . I be afraid to say that that be a recipe for Britain lose the global race . what would labour do differently ? we would have a national wealth fund , not with one - off , ad - hoc investment , but a proper plan . we would be invest in port , our steel industry and electric battery factory . we would also have a new publicly own energy company , GB Energy , which I be glad the Secretary of State mention . it would be partner the private sector in the industry of the future . the Government object to GB Energy , because they say that we do not need public ownership of energy in Britain . I have to say to the House that the Government may not realise it , but we already have public ownership of energy in Britain , with EDF , Vattenfall , Ø rste and Statkraft . they be all company wholly or partly own by state — foreign state . they own our industry . in fact , nearly half of our offshore wind industry be own by foreign state — by state - own foreign company . so the Government take the extraordinary position that it be okay for state - run company to invest in Britain , so long as they be not british state - own company ; let French , swedish , danish and norwegian citizen get the wealth from our energy industry , just not british citizen . that be the Government ' s position . this make I a nerd , but let I say that the late Ian Gilmour write an autobiography — [ interruption . ] it be not that that make I a nerd . [ laughter . ] he write an autobiography about his time in Mrs Thatcher ' s Cabinet , and some here will know that its title be " dance with Dogma " . that be what we be see here , because the Government be in favour of public ownership of our energy asset , so long as it be by foreign state . that do not sound very conservative to I . GB Energy would be invest in the industry of the future , partner local community to create job and wealth for Britain . a Labour King ' s Speech would have contain an energy independence Act to make all of this possible : clean power by 2030 to cut bill ; a proper energy efficiency plan ; a national wealth fund ; and GB Energy . that be an energy Bill equal to the scale of the crisis we face . rise — I be go to finish . the Prime Minister have be in the job for more than a year and he have be rumble , just as his party have be in power for 13 year and it have be rumble . for all his talk of change , the public know , as do the House , that he can not bring the change this country need . the Government ' s pathetic , small legislative programme show it , and they all know it . they be out of idea and out of time , and the only solution for our country be for they to be out of office . I warmly welcome this historic king ' s Speech and the " clean energy superpower " theme of today ' s debate . as the House will imagine , I will also look at the broad context within which this King ' s Speech have to be view . before I go on to that , I wish to pick up on the comment of the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) . I do agree with one thing he say : we should not play politic with climate change . I do not think the people we represent want that , but he just give we a 20 - minute masterclass in just that . I hope that he will reflect on his speech , because to be play such petty politic with such an important issue be not worthy of the work that I know he have do over many year . it be just not credible for he to simply dismiss the past 10 year of achievement , as he do in one fell swoop . I be sure that on reflection he will wish that he have spend more time acknowledge what this Government have do . no , I will not . if he do not , people will judge he all the more badly for that . as I say , I warmly welcome this historic king ' s Speech , which come at a time when the challenge our country face be start to crystallise . we have have three major impact to our economy in the past few year , and the doorstep conversation we be have at the time of the last general election in 2019 be nothing like the one I be have with my constituent now . whether we be deal with the impact of the war in Ukraine , the appalling situation currently in Israel , our leave the European Union or the impact of the global pandemic , the thing that people be talk about now be interest rate and inflation — issue that have not be on the lip of our electorate for a number of year . I be pleased to see that the Government have understand this challenge and be look at the long - term challenge our country now face , rather than simply look at what have happen in the past 10 year . we need to look forward to make sure that we be plan for the very different set of challenge that our economy face . the King ' s Speech will be just the beginning of that process . when we consider clean energy , it be worth look first at the track record of this Government . we be the first major economy to legislate for a net zero target , and since 1990 we have cut emission by 48 % . one could be forgive for not understand that , give the right hon . Gentleman ' s initial contribution . we be aim to reduce emission by 68 % by 2030 . until we start to agree that there be success we can talk about , the electorate will continue to be confuse . when we look at the progress that be be make and applaud it , we can then start to plan properly for the future . in the first quarter of this year , 48 % of our energy come from renewable , which be an increase from just 7 % when the Conservatives take power in 2010 . perhaps some of the question the right hon . Gentleman should be answer be why we be in such a relatively poor situation in 2010 and why more have not be do by the previous Administration . we be now an acknowledge world leader in offshore wind . I will address that later in my speech , because we could be work more with our friend , particularly country such as Canada , to see how we can make sure that our renewable energy go from strength to strength . one success story of the past few year have be Wrightbus , in Ballymena in North Antrim , and its advancement in hydrogen and renewable . do the right hon . Lady agree that we do not hear enough about some of the good thing ? that be one of the good story and we should hear more about it . the hon . Gentleman make a good point . I hear a great deal about the importance of hydrogen to our future on my recent trip to Canada as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy . there be a lot of complication associate with hydrogen and we need to do more work on it , but the hon . Gentleman be right to say that good thing , such as those that he mention , can be eclipse by the Opposition ' s rhetoric if we be not careful . I think also of new nuclear power station , small modular reactor and fusion energy , for which we have the test bed at Culham , which be be use the world over for the development of that innovative technology . there be also the work be do by the Minister for Industry and Economic Security on critical mineral , which I will come back to later . gas and oil will continue to be part of the mix of energy that we use into the future , as they will for most developed country . our Bill in this area safeguard those domestic supply , which be really important , because we can not leave our country open to not have that safeguard in place , particularly give recent event . the King ' s Speech clearly demonstrate a commitment to remain at the forefront of the world ' s transition to net zero , but the Government have also make sure that they have that safeguard in place through gas and oil . I particularly wish to address the importance of make sure that as we transition to clean energy , the Government , and other , keep a close eye on its impact on our community . I be remind of that recently when there be an application for planning consent for an industrial lithium - ion battery plant in a sensitive part of my constituency , right next to a hospital and a river . industrial lithium - ion battery be an essential part of our transition to clean energy , because they help iron out the supply of energy , particularly wind energy . as one member point out , the wind do not always blow at the right time and in the right place , so lithium - ion battery storage facility can help to make sure that energy be available throughout the day , on every day of the year , but they need to be correctly locate . our planning consent have not be update to properly recognise the problem that such plant can cause . I be grateful that the Government listen to the argument I make and have already make change to plan guidance to introduce mandatory environmental permit soon , which will prevent the granting of planning permission for those sort of plant in inappropriate location . I urge my right hon . and hon . friend on the Front Bench to make sure that they continue to look for those sort of issue as they arise . new technology and a continued drive for clean energy will inevitably mean that further new technology and process will emerge . we need to ensure that our exist permitting system be fit for purpose . many hundred of lithium - ion battery plant be plan for this country — I urge right hon . and hon . member to look in their own constituency to see if any be plan — and although they be a fire risk and an environmental risk , they be an essential part of the transition . we need to make sure they be safe when they be put in place . the remark make by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State make I think about the importance of rare earth mineral , which be an essential part of our transition to clean energy . I know my hon . friend the Minister for Industry and Economic Security have already put together an important strategy in that regard . when I be in Saskatchewan recently , I meet the chief executive officer of the Saskatchewan Research Council , Mike Crabtree , which run the rare earth processing facility . he describe the incredible work that be go on in Canada to make sure we have supply of rare earth mineral that can help we continue to see the transition to clean energy in the future . wind turbine need such rare earth mineral , and we need plan and treaty in place with country like Canada that can safely ensure we have a supply of these mineral into the future , so that we be not hold to ransom by country that may not have such stable and democratic regime in place . do my right hon . friend agree that we should be use the Modern Slavery Act 2015 to review the supply chain for new technology , such as battery ? we know that modern slavery often take place in country produce those material , such as those in Africa , so can we update the Act ? my hon . friend make an important point . when I speak to company in Canada that be develop lithium mine and look at mining rare earth metal , we talk about the importance of support indigenous people and of proper training . we should be do business with country that take the issue around modern slavery , which my hon . friend raise , very seriously . that will be take into account as we continue to negotiate our free trade agreement with Canada . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State also mention skilled personnel associate with oil and gas . I reiterate the point she make in response to an intervention , draw on my experience of a recent visit to Alberta . in that province , I see how the skill of oil and gas personnel be already be use to develop renewable energy , whether that be expertise in pipeline , hydrogen — as mention by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — chemical , engineering or other form of innovation . there be transferable skill and the Government need to urgently ensure we be not lose those skill to other country ; we must keep that expertise at home . we have make huge progress in green our energy supply but there be more to do . I hope that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State can ensure that we do not lose that expertise to other country . at the heart of the King ' s Speech be reset the dial for our country in the light of three enormous economic shock . the new Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill have enormous potential to expand both our import and export market , make sure that community such as mine in Basingstoke continue to have vibrant business into the future . within the Gracious Speech , I also welcome the leasehold and freehold Bill and the continuation of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . in my constituency , almost two third of household be own as oppose to rent , but it be important that those who be in leasehold flat or rent in other way have well protection . the Government ' s commitment to reform the rule around leasehold , while not entirely in line with clean energy , be an important part of the Bill , as it will make it easy and cheap for people to extend their lease and stay in the home they love . that be important for my community and many other across the country . my constituency of Basingstoke have see historical overdevelopment , often at the hand of a Labour Government who put in place unrealistic housing target . I have see my community respond positively , but we have contribute our fair share . will the Minister therefore confirm when the new national planning policy framework guideline will be publish ? I think they be come out soon . they will help community like mine , include by well recognise the overdevelopment of the past , so I hope the Minister can give we a brief update on those guideline . I know it be not just I on these green Benches who be interested in the timing . in the Gracious Speech , we also hear the Government ' s commitment to the NHS and to see an NHS at its very good . I be proud to receive notice from the Government that an incredible £ 900 million have be ringfence by the Treasury for a new hospital in my constituency . in the spirit of hope that these thing be above politic , I hope that those on the Opposition Benches can get behind project like that , which be in the interest of the whole community , and that they do not become political football . a new hospital of that magnitude — an exemplar — will be important not just for my constituent , but for many hundred and thousand of people around the south - east . I hope the Government be able to continue to put out positive message about their hospital programme . finally , the criminal justice Bill mention in the Gracious Speech will touch on an issue I have raise many time in this Chamber — intimate image abuse . I be delighted to see that the Bill will include intimate image abuse legislation , build on the legislation that have already be pass as a result of a great deal of good thought by Ministers in the Online Safety Act 2023 . I be particularly grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) for champion the inclusion of more work on intimate image abuse . in the Online Safety Act 2023 , we criminalise the sharing of intimate image without consent . now we need the rest of the Law Commission ' s recommendation — that the making and taking of such image also be criminalise — to be enact , and the Bill will give we the opportunity to do that . I be not sure that the Minister will be in a position to confirm the detail of the Bill today , but if she know anything about its timing , I would be most grateful to hear that . I be grateful for the opportunity to take part in the debate . there be many Bills in the Gracious Speech that will make a real difference to the people I represent and to people across the country . I hope that talk of it not have content will be see as it be — political rhetoric . there be a great deal in the King ' s Speech that will make a real difference to people ' s life . I look forward to debate the Bills in the come week and month , and to make sure that they be as good as they can be . I call the SNP spokesperson . this Gracious Speech serve as a stark reminder that the Westminster Government can not be trust to deliver for the people of Scotland — certainly not in term of energy . it be ludicrous that people live in energy - rich Scotland be have to grapple with unaffordable energy bill . as a solution , we have a King ' s Speech that do nothing to address that . the only energy - relate Bill that be refer to in the King ' s Speech on Tuesday be the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , which the Secretary of State herself admit just a few day ago would not bring energy bill down . it be therefore incorrigible that , at a time when a record number of household be face fuel poverty , the only concrete proposal mention in the King ' s Speech be one that , by the Secretary of State ' s own admission , will not help cash - strap household across these island . it could though , she say , release fund to support household with energy bill — the operative word there be " could " . but even in this vague of commitment , the mask slip . let I reinterpret that comment . it basically mean that , in the absence of additionality to the Exchequer , this Government will stand idly by while people freeze . the speech also include reference to help " attract record level of investment into renewable source " and " reform grid connection " , but no Bills be specifically name that set out how that might be achieve . there be no plan , and no detail or funding , to deliver the transition network that be need to low bill and ruthlessly dial out gas from our generation system , thereby protect consumer . it be utterly hopeless . it be a blank cheque for new extraction base on maximise extraction in abstract , with very little strategic ambition or join - up thinking , except that of maximise London ' s receipt from Scotland ' s hydrocarbon endowment . old habit , it would appear , do indeed die hard . this ambition also come with the bad possible greenwashe nonsense as supposedly qualify criterion , which be entirely permissive , include the carbon intensity test , which seek to discern whether gas extract from the North sea will have a low carbon footprint than gas process and ship from around the world — I be pretty sure that you and I , Madam Deputy Speaker , can guarantee that it will . then there be test that discern whether the UK remain a net importer of both oil and gas . it seem that that , too , will be a fairly consistent position . it be not even clever or sly ; it be almost an indignity to put criterion like that , which be so simple to meet or exceed , in the legislation . with the same fork tongue that the Government use when they claim that revenue could go to support household energy bill , they also claim that tax revenue could go towards support renewable energy investment . if they mean that , they would be set out exactly how that would happen ; but they have not , because it will not happen under this Treasury or this Tory Government . in Scotland , we know what the revenue from our oil and gas will be spend on . it be the same thing that they have be spend on by UK Governments over the past 40 year : infrastructure investment in the south - east of England and stem the economic collapse of broken Brexit Britain . Scotland will not reap any endowment from this late round of extraction . the Government claim that this be for energy security and to reduce our reliance on foreign oil and gas , when only last month they explicitly decide to prolong that very reliance on gas : through the rollback of the boiler replacement ambition ; through the failure of auction round 5 , result in even more gas generation , which will have to replace the offshore wind that do not happen as a result of that auction round ; and through the rollback of the deadline to phase out internal combustion engine car . there be no progress on energy efficiency , home insulation , curtail demand , protect bill and keep people safe in their home — none of it — in this ambition . and the Government be now congratulate themselves on the gas front , because the gas that we will extract from the North sea be marginally less environmentally damaging than that which would have be ship in from Asia or the middle east . it be the stuff of nonsense . the hon . Gentleman say that the gas import from overseas be only marginally more environmentally damaging . do he not agree with the like of the North Sea Transition Authority , Offshore Energies UK and other expert in the field that estimate that it could be anything between twice as much or up to five time as much the carbon footprint to take liquefy natural gas into this country , deliquefy it and then get it into our system ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution . I think that we actually agree : the gas that we extract from the North sea be less environmentally damaging than that which would be ship in from around the world . the point that I be make , and the point that many other observer be make in this space , be that we should be run as far away as we can from yesterday ' s hydrocarbon technology and throw everything that we have , include the kitchen sink , at get into a renewable space , protect bill and save the environment from further damage . that be where we should be , so mithere over percentage here or there be not the way for we to proceed . the hon . Gentleman be make some really important point , many of which be to be applaud . one significant point be how do we make that transition away from hydrocarbon and deplete the carbon that be already be generate and store in offshore carbon bank ? do he agree that one way to do that be to introduce a wellhead tax on all new oil and gas to fund carbon capture and storage offshore ? secondly , do he support the establishment of a publicly own energy company in Scotland ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s latter point , I say yes . on his initial point , we would not need to be overly sceptical to take a jaundiced view of the tax regime that operate in the oil and gas sector in the UK . let I leave it at that . the only way to achieve long - term energy security , which go in some way to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question , be through renewable energy produce on and offshore in the North sea and all around these island . Scotland ' s future be at the heart of this green gold rush but we be , as usual in this so - call Union , hold back by London do to Scotland , never with , and talk at we but never for we . wind energy be demonstrably and by some margin the cheap to produce of all the energy in the UK , but despite that , the UK Government manage in auction round 5 to offer a price for wind energy that be so low that not a single offshore wind producer could sign up to it . this be cack - handed arrogance from a Department that think it know well than industry — a Department that , rather than work in partnership with industry , delude itself into think that it have the whip hand , that it hold all the card . in this , as with so much else , it be entirely wrong . it try to call industry ' s bluff , but the Westminster Government be force to blink first — you could not make this up . the interesting thing about that failure in auction round 5 be that when that generation capacity come online — now it will come online I assume as a result of auction round 6 , 7 and so on — the gap will still exist in the supply pipeline . we do not have the energy infrastructure to take that generation from where it be be generate and deliver it to industry and home across Great Britain . that infrastructure be not there . the Government talk about how good they be on a global scale . they love to trumpet their record — this ridiculous debate head " clean energy superpower " be specious nonsense — which betray the fact that we can not even deliver the energy that be be generate today . this government be pay generator to switch their wind off , but the demand still exist , so where do this energy come from ? yes , gas . every way that the consumer turn in this country , they be be let down and circumvent by this Government . we could augment the grid and network infrastructure by properly support community energy ownership and generation . but let I be clear : there be £ 10 million for England only — perhaps the Minister could clarify whether that will be consequentialise for the devolved nation — which be not properly stand up for community generation . in Scotland , community - own wind farm average £ 170 , 000 a year for community benefit payment per instal megawatt hour — an astonishing leverage of capital into community , compare with £ 5 , 000 from standard community benefit payment . not only do community fund those project themselves — no public money be use in their construction — they solve the problem of the local community , include fuel poverty , improve home insulation and upgrade heating system . local community know well than the UK Government what their priority be , and be willing to fix they themselves . I would have think that that be pretty consistent with conservative ambition — the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) may want to intervene — of self - reliance and resilience , but apparently not . thankfully , the Scottish Government recognise the huge opportunity of community energy scheme to empower community , solve those challenge , and reduce the need for vast infrastructure investment project through the community and renewable energy scheme . in Scotland , the Government have provide more than £ 58 million . contrast that with the £ 10 million from the English Government for England — it be not actually £ 10 million anyway , because £ 1 million be for administration ; it be really only £ 9 million — and we can see which administration be support community energy generation , and which be not . time and again , we hear from local community group that there be no support for gain connection to the grid , and that the Government be utterly apathetic regard the benefit of community energy generation . perhaps we can get an answer today on when the Government will launch the much - anticipate consultation on the barrier block growth in community energy generation , give their promise to do so back in September . this debacle have needlessly set back wind production in auction round 5 , and we need to see something very substantial in auction round 6 . I assume that we will have a realistic strike price for offshore in auction round 6 . I hope that it will be around 50 % to 60 % inflated over what be in auction round 5 , in cognisance of supply chain constraint , construction price inflation , and the challenge of capital expenditure and attract investor confidence in the UK , which of course have take a real battering after the Prime Minister ' s announcement to row back on climate emergency legislation . my hon . friend be make a marvellous speech point out the shortcoming of the Government ' s approach to accelerate renewable and to the barrier onshore . do he , as I do , detect the remnant of an anti - growth coalition live on among those on the Conservative Front Bench ? that would depend on what we want to grow . if we want to invest substantially in renewable energy and the technology of the future , then yes , I do . if we want to invest in chinese expertise , french reactor and nuclear power plant , then no , I do not . it be very much horse for course with this Government , and I wish that my constituent , and everyone else in Scotland , do not have to rely on these misguided ambition any long than we absolutely must . I want to ask a genuine question of the hon . Gentleman , if he do not mind . he mention that he be hope for between 50 % and 60 % inflation on the strike price for ar6 , as and when it come around . could he expand on how that be calculate ? I do not want to go into the calculation element of it , but it look at the disconnect between the strike price that be deliver in auction round 4 and the ambition for auction round 5 , wrap it up in the inflation environment that we be in — bear in mind that these be 2012 price , so it be not actually that number — and come out with a figure within that range . it be an auction , as the hon . Gentleman will know very well , so there be an element of second - guess to it . however , after this Government ' s failure in auction round 5 , we can not allow something similar to happen in auction round 6 , which will create a disinvestment in offshore wind that we can not allow to happen . Scotland be a well - establish net exporter of electricity . in 2020 , we create 31 . 8 tw of renewable electricity in Scotland , equivalent to power all the house in Scotland for three and a half year . that be in 2020 , and we be now generate even more . call in Scotland be grow louder and louder , ask how it be possible that in our country of 5 . 5 million people , where we produce six time more gas than we consume , a staggering 50 % of scottish people age 55 to 64 be live in fuel poverty . it be as well that they ask , because the answer lie in be handcuff to Westminster . Scotland be currently lead the world on float wind , but only by a very slim margin . we need strategic ambition and significant investment to leverage our intellectual , engineering and geographic advantage into a systemic lead on this technology on a global scale , certainly for technology and design , and for manufacturing in the european sector . until three month ago , Scotland have the world ' s large float offshore wind installation , but that title now belong to Hywind Tampen in Norway . we be at a critical juncture for offshore float wind in Scotland , with the potential to exploit our enormous growth opportunity , and to export our manufacture expertise across the world , but only if we get the strike price right . it be therefore frustrating in the extreme to see the Tories talk about the need for economic growth while at the same time utterly fail to do anything ambitious to support this burgeon industry of almost limitless potential for scottish job , UK job and global sale . contrast that investment posture with the rush to welcome chinese expertise and french technology into England ' s nuclear industry . float wind must get an appropriate strike price in ar6 that reflect the enormous growth potential of the industry . the Department need to stand up to the Treasury and secure an administrative strike price that reflect the rudimentary understanding that , as a new technology , float wind will have a high cost per megawatt - hour , but it will reduce over time . the price must reflect the advantage of have a more advantageous strike price that allow the supply chain to fall on these island , not force developer to get their supply chain from abroad . my hon . friend mention stand up to the Treasury . the Secretary of State brag about the Government ' s support for tidal , but it be a peedie amount in comparison with their love support for nuclear . it be very disappointing , when we consider how efficient , steady and reliable — and how much cheap — that electricity source be . do my hon . friend agree ? I absolutely agree . I can only assume that it be due to the Conservatives ' blinker reliance on nuclear . they cry , " we need baseload ! " but we need a mix of energy storage and baseload solution , just as we need a mix of generation . if they show half the ambition for pumped storage , battery storage and hydrogen as they do for nuclear , we would be in a far well position and much less reliant on this grossly expensive generation technology . on the pumped storage issue , I write to the Minister early this year and be inform that the Government be " commit to put in place an appropriate policy framework " , but we see nothing in the King ' s Speech and we detect no sense of urgency regard pump storage . long - term energy storage be yet another way to ensure energy security that the Government seem more than happy to ignore . to maximise the efficiency of renewable energy generation while ensure the low possible price for consumer , we require a properly function energy grid , which will necessarily include long - duration energy storage . industry have be super clear that future expansion of pumped hydro storage be achievable and affordable , and that crucially a number of project already have planning permission , such as Cruachan in the west of Scotland . however , the UK Government ' s current market mechanism prevent the investment need to ensure that those vital project be deliver in a timely manner , consistent with the climate emergency and the ambition to lower consumer ’ bill . a cap and floor mechanism will fix pump storage , and I would be very interested to hear the view of the Secretary of State on that , but when we take all these issue in the round , it be very clear to I and to the people of Scotland that we need control over our energy future . the only way to do that be with the full power of independence . rise — order . there be not massive pressure on time , but as colleague can see , a number of colleague wish to get in . my advice would be that be everybody to speak for no long than 12 minute , everybody would get in and have sufficient time . if people go on for too long , it put pressure on other . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I in what be my last Gracious Speech debate . my constituency of Kingswood be be formally abolish in the boundary change and there be nowhere for I to go , but I have have a great time participate in these debate over the past 13 and a half year . I remember my first Gracious Speech debate . a loyal Back Bencher who know no well , I be sit in the Library , and a Whip come around and ask whether I might participate . I say , " yes , sure , I ' m happy to . would five minute be okay ? " he say , " yes , come in , but we actually need you to speak for 45 minute , if that ' s all right . " I be delighted that we have far more people in the Chamber now compare with that debate , when I be one of the few member in the room . that demonstrate , I think , the interest and the enthusiasm on both side of the House for focus on the importance of the energy transition not just to tackle the climate crisis , but for the opportunity it present the UK economy . I be delighted to hear in the Secretary of State ' s speech her enthusiasm for set out in detail the UK ' s progress internationally . we be a clean energy superpower . we can debate among ourselves the fine policy detail , but the reality be that over the past 15 year we have decarbonise far than any other G20 nation . we have reduce our emission by 50 % , while at the same time grow our economy by 70 % on 1990 level . that be a paragon and a model that all other nation look to , but it be important that once we have earn a reputation , we seek to preserve that reputation . many country now be follow the UK , and we be now in a new global net zero race . we may have go far and fast initially , which make we able to attract inward investment into this country as a result of our climate leadership , but other country be follow up far and fast in our track . I be remind of the tale of the tortoise and the hare ; the tortoise of the world be come up , and we can not just sit there pausing , think that this be good enough . we have the United States Inflation Reduction Act , set out £ 370 billion of investment in clean technology , and the EU ' s green deal , with the opportunity of up to € 1 trillion of investment , but it be not just the investment that be important here — it be the certainty . I chair the net zero review and publish the " Mission Zero : Independent Review of Net Zero " report in January . we be very kindly grant a debate in both Chambers on the recommendation of those report . above all , the narrative that that mission zero report set out be that net zero be not a cost but an opportunity and an investment , and that there be two path ahead of we . the Secretary of State talk about two path , and I will come on to that in a moment , but my own analysis be that the net zero path can potentially bring up to £ 1 trillion of inward investment and up to 480 , 000 new additional job by 2035 , if we so wish . however , that path require commitment from the Government to provide certainty , clarity , continuity and consistency — the four cs that we identify — and a mission - base approach that provide long - term programmatic certainty . that certainty be almost more important than the money . if we look at what the States have do , the 45q and 45x tax credit be guarantee until 1 January 2033 . the Kreditanstalt f ü r Wiederaufbau programme in Germany and the MaPrimeR é nov ' energy efficiency programme in France be guarantee over a decade . in contrast , in the UK we be still expose to the tyranny of the spending review , and many of our programme , whether in energy efficiency or clean energy , be bedevil by the fact that they only last for three to four year at most and then have to start all over again . that do not provide the certainty to build out supply chain , it do not provide certainty for local authority or regional Mayors to make investment , and it certainly do not provide the certainty need for inward private investment to come to this country . let we be clear : of course there be a capital cost to energy transition and there be capital investment that need to be make , but once the capital investment be make , the operational cost be far less than for fossil fuel technology . however , that money will come above all not from the taxpayer , but overwhelmingly from private investor , who need certainty . Certainty do not come only from Government policy , legislation and regulation , although the net zero review be very clear in set out 129 recommendation for how Government and Parliament can provide framework to ensure that investor have the opportunity to reduce delay and unblock the current problem whereby people can not get grid connection until 2035 . I welcome the progress that be be make on that , but certainty also come from have cross - party consensus . what be cross - party consensus ? it do not necessarily mean that we will agree on everything . it be right in this democratic nation that we discuss the detail of policy and hold each other to account , but let we understand that the consensus we need on climate be fight for by work closely together . the Climate Change Act 2008 be pass by the then Labour Government . the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) be the Secretary of State at the time , but he have the political courage to accept an amendment from the conservative party , then in opposition , to raise our ambition from 60 % emission reduction on 1990 level to 80 % . the legal framework that we have in place , with the carbon budget process , and on top of that the Climate Change Committee act as an independent advisory body — it do not make any policy recommendation , and to suggest that it do be deeply flawed , because all it do be to report back and advise on policy decision , whoever make they , whether it be the UK , Scottish or Welsh Government or even the opposition — have be admire across the world as a paradigm of stability . not only that , but it allow I , as the Energy Minister back in 2019 , to bring net zero into law . why be net zero so important for develop a clean energy superpower ? because it mean that there be nowhere to hide . no one could claim to be in that 20 % that be too difficult to tackle . net zero be everyone ' s business , and with that come a moment when net zero go viral . if someone have tell I back in 2019 , I simply would not have believe that 93 % of global GDP would have now sign up to a net zero target in some form . however , for the UK that mean that investment be now go elsewhere unless we raise our ambition . the term of the game have change in this year alone , partly due , obviously , to what have happen in geopolitic and the cost of oil and gas crisis generate by Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine . all country in Europe have wake up to the fact that the answer to tackle the cost of gas crisis be to build out more renewable power . even Ukraine have build 18 time more wind turbine than we have build onshore in the UK . there be only a finite amount of labour and investment , and we have a political choice to make whether we want that to come to UK , or whether we want to see it onshore elsewhere . I want to see it come to the UK . we must set our priority very clearly . our priority must be that we want private investment to come to this country . we should retain that consensus and that ability to understand that , whoever become the next Administration at the next general election — I be not make a party political point here — we still need to work together . we all live under the same sky . we all operate under the same climate . carbon dioxide do not care whether you be a Labour , Tory or SNP MP . all that matter be the real - term emission reduction we need to see . when it come to those emission reduction , it be not about 2050 ; we can not keep on kick the can down the road . as COP28 will show , the globe will commit to a trebling of renewable and a doubling of energy efficiency measure in order to meet a halving of emission by 2030 . the UK need to lead on the 68 % emission reduction target that it set in its own nationally determined contribution . the decision we make today count not just for 27 year ' time , but for seven year ' time . that be what be at stake here . that bring I , in conclusion , to the question of the future use of fossil fuel in this country . I understand that it be a closely fight debate , and unfortunately it have become politicised . I regret the decision that have be take , but let we focus again on the evidence at hand . to start with , everyone in this Chamber , as far as I know , understand that we will need to continue use oil and gas . the Committee on Climate Change have set out the so - call balanced pathway , work alongside the North Sea Transition Authority , to recognise that we will still need to use oil and gas into the 2050 , but that we should do it with our exist well and field . in reality , when it come to look at the future of oil and gas in this country , I do not belong to just stop oil — I be not some eco - extremist just because I sign net zero into law , which be the bare minimum we could do . I see net zero as a conservative mission , recognise that one of the priority of the conservative party , if anything at all , be to conserve . at the same time , it allow we to generate economic growth and to ensure that all job , no matter the industry , be protect . I be glad that we have raise the issue of job and people in oil and gas community , because we must think about the individual community and the people who work in those industry . they be highly talented and highly skilled , and we absolutely need their support to ensure that we can have a successful transition . the net zero review set out that we need an offshore industry passport ; we need to make it far easy for individual to move across into the industry of the future . politic be about priority and decide where investment go . the Secretary of State mention the coalmine in the 1980 , and in a way , I agree with she . look at what be leave in the North sea , the decision in the King ' s Speech will mean , as Carbon Brief and a number of other environmental organisation have demonstrate , that instead of take 95 % of oil and gas out of the North sea basin , we will take out 97 % — the equivalent of two week ' worth of oil and gas a year . that be the reality of what this energy security supposedly mean . it be not just I say that . I have be hand this conservative campaign headquarters brief , so I assume CCHQ want I to read from it . it say : " even with continued licensing , production from the UK Continental Shelf be project to decline at 7 per cent annually , this decline be fast than the average global decline " . I even have the Conservative research department brief agree with I that there be not enough oil and gas in the North sea to make a difference ; we will still be dependent on foreign oil and gas in future . it will predominantly be oil , and we do not have the refinery to be able to refine it , so it will still have to go the Netherlands and it will still be sell on international market by foreign company . Rosebank be operate by Equinor , a norwegian company . I have nothing against Equinor , but we can not pin a claim of energy security on the production of future oil and gas . if we want to deliver effective energy security , we need to turn the debate on its head , because we have not really focus on what we need to achieve , which be a reduction in demand . we have be speak a lot about supply , and that be fantastic , but if we want to be a clean energy superpower , we need to focus on our ability to reduce demand through energy efficiency measure such as heat pump , and through understanding that we can reduce our gas demand , which be at the mercy of foreign petrostate and international market , by up to 40 % . I know that the debate on oil and gas be emotive , and , to be honest , it be not help by the performative protest of just stop Oil , which do not get anyone anywhere . no one in this Chamber support just stop Oil . if we be honest , as democratically elect representative , it be beneath we to suggest that any of we be in the same camp as just stop Oil . we be diametrically opposed , because we come to this Chamber to have democratic debate , across party , about what be need for the future , not to oppose for opposition ' s sake . in understand what need to happen with the net zero transition , we need to ensure that we work together use the exist legislative apparatus — the CCC , the carbon budget process — and that we continue to lead , but that require political certainty and political stability . as I say , this be my last Gracious Speech debate , and , although I have so far support every single such Speech in my parliamentary career , unfortunately this will be the first time that I be unable to vote for the King ' s Speech . I apologise to his Majesty in advance — I hope that he do not mind — but I will not be put in a position of support new oil and gas licensing when it be not need , either for environmental reason , obviously , or for economic reason . this year alone , we have see investment in oil and gas plummet . we have now see investment in solar rise , to the point that it be at parity with oil and gas . if we continue to suggest that we can produce oil and gas forever , we will let down the community that we need to transition . that be the point about the coalfield : we will end up be the Arthur Scargills of this world , claim that we can forever continue mining coal . we can not continue to drill for oil , because there be no oil leave to drill . that be the economic reality that investor already understand . they be move away from fossil fuel , and in 10 year ' time , people will look back at this debate and recognise that Westminster and Whitehall be behind the curve . the private sector and the market be move already . we need to listen now and clearly if we be to protect job for the future . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be often say that it be a great pleasure to follow the previous speaker , and it could not be more of a pleasure for I to follow the final speech in a King ' s Speech debate by the right hon . member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) , because he have be a champion in this House for a sensible way forward . his work on the Skidmore review be exemplary . I also want to pick up on what the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) say about the need to maintain the cross - party consensus , which have be so vital to the progress that we have make over the past 10 year — and more than that , the past 15 year . Cross - party consensus have enable we to progress . yes , the past 10 year have be year of progress ; the past 13 year have be year of progress . the foundation be lay very ably by my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) , the Government take advantage of that , and we be now in a good place . we be in the lead , but we be not show leadership . that be the difference : we need to show more leadership now . last winter , there be 4 , 706 excess winter death in Britain cause by live in cold , damp home . that be 1 , 520 more than in the year before , and last winter be consider mild — let we all pray that this winter too be consider mild . I will examine what the King ' s Speech will do for those in fuel poverty and those who will struggle in any winter because their property be simply draughty , damp , cold and un - insulate . how will this King ' s Speech prevent even more excess death this winter ? it be often say that the first job of Government be to protect their citizen . that do not just mean from external threat or internal crime , but in the basic of life . what could be more basic than the warmth of a decent home ? thankfully , energy price have fall since last winter , but they remain 70 % high than in the year before , so what be the Government ' s strategy ? what demand have they make of the energy supply company to help customer get through this winter ? what measure be there to improve the energy efficiency of building ? some 21 % of UK emission — over a fifth of all our emission — come from heating leaky and inefficient building ; 21 % of emission , but 100 % misery for those live in those building . the majority of those 4 , 706 excess death be pensioner , who be most vulnerable to the cold . what measure be the Government take to ensure the uptake of pension credit ? the Secretary of State work at the Centre for Social Justice and at the Housing and Finance Institute , and she have be a Minister in the Department for Work and Pensions , so she know the plight of pensioner poverty . yet this King ' s Speech hold no hope that the Government will tackle the problem of 37 % of pensioner not get pension credit . where be the Bill to retrofit energy efficiency measure in all our housing stock , to save money and save life by make sure people can turn their heating down because their property be not lose every therm it pump out ? there be nothing — well , not quite nothing . ahead of the King ' s Speech , the Prime Minister announce that he be drop the proposal to oblige landlord to ensure that the property they rent to their tenant be bring up to a minimum energy performance certificate standard of C by 2028 . that will ensure that 2 . 4 million privately rent home continue to be cold , damp and energy - inefficient . it will ensure that 1 . 6 million child who we know be currently live in what be officially class as " non - decent " home have no relief for another seven year , until the new date set by the Prime Minister of 2035 . of course , it be not the wealthy landlord who pay the heating bill . that mean insulate the property properly be not something they have an incentive to do , unless it be mandate by Government . it be calculate that the tenant , who do pick up the bill , will end up pay an extra £ 1 billion in their gas and electric bill because the Prime Minister want to show that he be not an " eco - zealot " . I would not be proud to wear a badge of moderation on the back of some of the poor private sector renter in our country . I be sure that Government Members will wish to point to the £ 400 payment from the energy bill support scheme , fund from the windfall tax on oil and gas producer last year . of course , that still leave bill twice as high as they have be previously and provide no relief for off - grid property or those who have to use prepayment meter . their alternative scheme for those 900 , 000 household reach just 2 , 000 bill payer and return £ 440 million to the Treasury . could the Government not even have the wit to put that money back into the system to provide energy efficiency measure for those property ? what about the warm home discount ? two year ago , the Government revise the qualification for it , which mean that those 37 % of pensioner who be not claim pension credit do not get the warm home discount either . More than that , not all energy provider be oblige to offer the discount , and even those that be oblige have a limited obligation , which be use on a first come , first serve basis . the job of government be to get the help available to the people who need it . winter be come . the Government need to look at this again . they should be introduce a social tariff to protect our most vulnerable , struggle , fuel - poor citizen . they should get rid of the unfair and regressive standing charge and introduce a rise block tariff , so that those use less energy pay less per unit of energy , so that the principle of " polluter pay " apply and so that those who need to heat their swimming pool pay much more per unit to do so . what we have in this King ' s Speech be not the Bill to tackle fuel poverty that we need , but a Bill to shovel yet more public money to the oil and gas sector through the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill . the Government seek to justify the Bill by say it will " enhance " this country ' s energy security . it will not , because company such as Shell and Siccar Point Energy sell their gas on the international market and refine their oil abroad . the International Energy Agency have make it clear that we have already identify five time the amount of oil and gas that the world could possibly use if it be to keep within the 1 . 5 ° threshold of dangerous climate change . these licence be part of a scramble to be the last country to sell the last barrel of oil . I gently remind the Secretary of State that the stone age do not end because of a lack of stone , and the oil age will not end because of a lack of oil — oh , but it will end ! what my constituent live in cold , inefficient home do not understand be why , under the tax rule devise by the Prime Minister when he be Chancellor , they be the one who will end up pay to develop these licence . the taxpayer give 92p in tax rebate for every £ 1 those company spend develop these new field in the North sea basin — company such as Shell , whose own chief executive call his company ' s profit " obscene " . the Secretary of State try to persuade the House and the public that these licence be justify because of the tax revenue they will bring . that might be an argument if the fact do not tell we that any tax revenue will not flow from these licence for the five to eight year that it will take to develop they . that might be an argument if the fact do not tell we that it will divert investment away from the real , cheap , clean renewable energy that will actually reduce bill . it might be an argument if it be not the case that , even with the windfall tax , the tax take from oil and gas producer be less than the global average . when the windfall tax expire next year , the UK tax take from oil and gas producer will fall back to the low tax rate in the world — not 10 % less than the global average , and not 20 % less , but 38 % less than the global average . if we levy tax at the global average , we would get an extra £ 14 billion into the public purse that could address fuel poverty and retrofit those house . how do the Secretary of State explain that to the 4 , 706 family who lose love one to excess death , the 37 % of pensioner not get their warm home discount or the 2 . 4 million family now wait an extra seven year for their landlord to insulate their home properly ? what will she tell they — that there be no time for a Bill to deal with the scourge of fuel poverty , but there be time to introduce a Bill to deal with the scourge of unlicensed pedicab ? priority ; priority . let I mention two further Bills in the Gracious Speech . I welcome unreservedly the Holocaust Memorial Bill and urge the Government to introduce it swiftly in the eight month before purdah set in for the next general election . the significance of this Bill have only be heighten by the hideous terror attack on 7 October . both side of the House will give the Bill a speedy passage , so that we can build the memorial and learn centre . if there be ever a time that we need such a learn centre against hatred , it be now . finally , I give a much caveated welcome to the leasehold and freehold Bill . if the Government see this Bill as a vehicle to end the feudal system of leasehold , they be wrong . it extend the right to enfranchise and own the freehold of one ' s own home only to leasehold home , not to the 5 million people who live in the misery of leasehold flat . England and Wales be the last redoubt of this antiquated and unjust property ownership . every other country in the world have a commonhold or strata title system . the fundamental problem with leasehold be the inequity of power . the leaseholder pay full market value for their apartment , but they have no power to take any of the key decision that relate to it . they be tell by the manage agent what repair be require , who will do they and how much they will cost , but the leaseholder have to pay . it be not enough , as the Gracious Speech say , to improve leaseholder ' consumer right . what we need be an abolition of leasehold . we need to abolish marriage value , and we need to enable enfranchisement , so that all leaseholder — not just leasehold house owner , but leasehold flat owner — be able to enjoy the full right of property ownership , instead of be exploit as they be now . it be my honour to attend the state opening of Parliament this week , represent the people of Banff and Buchan , particularly on this occasion of the first King ' s Speech in over 70 year . I join other across the House in thank his Majesty King Charles III for deliver the Gracious Speech . in general term , the King ' s Speech show that this Government be make the necessary long - term decision to get this country on the right path for the future . one of the criticism I be sure we all receive across the House be that politician often focus too much on short - term outcome , so this long - term approach be to be welcome . this bright future will be deliver by grow the economy , strengthen society , keep people safe and promote our national interest . the topic of today ' s debate be make Britain a clean energy superpower , and it be on grow the economy and particularly the subject of energy security that I would like to focus . that will come as no surprise to most people in this House , as I have speak at length in this place on the combined subject of energy security and net zero even before that become the name of the Department head by my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) . the main thrust of my contribution have be , I believe , to reinforce the critical role play by oil and gas company ; their worker with their skill and expertise ; the technology , supply chain and service company ; and , yes , the capital that those company bring in make this country ' s energy transition a success . I recognise that this appear counterintuitive to some across the House , but deliver on our energy security objective and on our energy transition objective be not mutually exclusive goal . I therefore welcome the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill that be introduce this week . while this country continue to scale up our domestic , renewable and low - carbon source of energy , datum from the Climate Change Committee tell we that we be currently 75 % dependent on oil and gas for our energy need . as the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) — who be no long in his place — mention early , that figure be not just for electricity generation , but include transportation and heat . it be the Climate Change Committee that push for the very ambitious target of the UK get to net zero emission by 2050 . that target be put into law by this Conservative Government — in fact , by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) — make the UK the first major economy anywhere in the world to do so . that datum from the Climate Change Committee also tell we that by 2050 , when we reach net zero , this country be predict to still be at least 20 % dependent on oil and gas . as have already be establish , we have decarbonise fast than any other G7 country compare with 1990 level : we have reduce emission by almost 50 % , with a target to reach a 68 % reduction by 2030 . we have almost completely transition away from coal , which provide 70 % of our power generation in 1990 but provide less than 2 % today , and the deadline for zero unabated coal power have be bring forward to 2024 — just next year . however , we have some way to go if we be to get to net zero . I make no apology for say this : we absolutely must continue to develop and install more and more renewable , low - carbon and sustainable source of energy to generate the electricity and provide the heat and transport that our economy need . we will continue to deliver more wind , solar , carbon capture and storage , hydrogen and other technology to actively reduce the demand for oil and gas . we have come a long way , but we be not there yet . we need to get from where we be today to where we need to be in the future through the energy transition that we have already embark upon — an transition that the oil and gas industry have be embark upon for decade . to give an example , we need look no far than peterhead power station in my constituency . that power station come onstream in 1980 , and be today the only dispatchable thermal power station north of Leeds . originally design to run on fuel oil , which already make it clean than coal - power station elsewhere in the country , it be operate fully on natural gas by the 1990 . in the 2000 , combine cycle gas turbine technology be instal , which make the station even more efficient . it be now towards the end of its life , and a new power station be plan to be build at the same site . with roughly two third of the capacity of the current power station , but link to the Acorn carbon capture project at the nearby St Fergus terminal just up the coast , that new facility will generate power that be at least 95 % emission - free . as many in the House will know , acorn form part of the Scottish CCS cluster , which will help decarbonise industrial process at the Mossmorran liquefy natural gas plant in Fife and the petrochemical complex at Grangemouth in the central belt , among other . as I have say , the energy transition be already happen , not just within the hydrocarbon production industry but by utilise the skill , technology and supply chain of that industry . I welcome this Government ' s recognition of the vital role that oil and gas company , and their more than 200 , 000 worker across the UK , will have to play in that energy transition . the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill will require the North Sea Transition Authority to run an annual process invite application for new production licence in the UK continental shelf . a licensing round would take place only if the UK be project to import more oil and gas from abroad than it produce domestically — that is , to continue be a net importer . the carbon emission link to UK gas production would also need to be low than the equivalent emission from import liquefy natural gas . those two test be already include in the Government ' s climate test for new licence , know as the climate compatibility checkpoint . the Bill would make the test legally bind . I have hear some member say , include today — in fact , I think it be the official Opposition ' s policy , or at least it have be their policy — that not only should we not award any new production licence , but we should simply keep produce from the well we have . that show a staggering lack of understanding of how oil and gas reservoir work . accord to Offshore Energies UK , the trade body for the offshore energy industry , " there be currently 284 active oil and gas field in the North Sea and by 2030 around 180 of those will have cease production due to natural decline . " OEUK have warn that without fresh investment , by 2030 the UK will be reliant on oil and gas import not for 50 % of its need , as it be today , but for 80 % . as I have say , more than 200 , 000 job depend on the continuity of North sea energy company . that workforce have develop world - lead specialist skill since oil and gas production from the UKCS begin in the 1970 . about 90 % of those worker have skill that can be readily transfer to renewable energy production , and in the grow carbon capture , utilisation and storage sector that figure be probably close to 100 % . to recap , why do the UK need more oil and gas licence ? datum from the NSTA show that the UK replace only 3 % of production with new reserve in 2022 , mean that only one new barrel be invest in for every 33 barrel produce today . the UK be expect to close production from 20 field this year , while only two new field will start produce , and for every oil and gas well drill , around three be closed . even with an increase in new well , we will not be produce more oil and gas ; even in the most optimistic projection , with new oil and gas , production be predict to continue to decline by 7 % a year . let I repeat that : new oil and gas do not mean more oil and gas , but we do need to maximise the amount of oil and gas we get from the UKCS for as long as we need it . and need it we will — need it we do ! as I say early , as we grow our capacity for renewable , low - carbon and sustainable form of energy , our demand for oil and gas be set to decline , from 75 % today to 20 % in 2050 . as such , if we need oil and gas , it make sense at the most basic level of understanding that we should produce it as locally as we can . the carbon footprint of import liquify natural gas , for example , can be anything between two and five time that of domestically produce gas . what about Norway ? Norway be the two . actually , it be broadly equivalent , but apart from Norway , any gas come in from overseas have between two and five time the carbon footprint . new oil and gas capacity will reduce exposure to global instability — the kind of instability that we see when Russia invade Ukraine . this Bill mean that we can reach net zero without unduly burden family and business . datum from the North Sea Transition Authority and the Climate Change Committee tell we that if we produce as much oil and gas from the new well as we can , that will still merely slow the decline in production . even with an optimistic 7 % year - on - year decline — I mean optimistic from a producer ' s point of view — that decline be fast than the average global decline need to align with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ' s 1 . 5 ° C pathway . finally , if we follow the SNP ' s presumption against new oil and gas or labour ' s just stop oil approach and shut down this vital industry too soon , we will not see a massive transfer of worker to the renewable sector , as be predict . we will not even see a bunch of unemployed oil and gas worker ; we will see a massive exodus of those oil and gas worker , go where the oil and gas industry be be promote . I thank the hon . member for give way . in his haste to castigate the SNP for presumption against oil and gas , will he not at least have the intellectual honesty to recognise that in the climate change compatibility checkpoint , his own Government be introduce a presumption against further development , no matter how weak and feeble that presumption might seem to anyone with a care for the subject ? I have hear the hon . Gentleman make that remark before , and I be sorry to say that I completely disagree . a presumption against new oil and gas development be a presumption against new oil and gas development ; a climate change compatibility checkpoint be part of an assumption of new oil and gas , so it be not a presumption against new oil and gas . [ interruption . ] I have just explain it . those worker with their skill and expertise , those supply chain and those service company with their technology will simply go elsewhere — as I have say — and deliver someone else ' s energy security and energy transition . I commend the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill for show this Government ' s commitment to not let that happen , and to make the right decision for this country ' s long - term future . I would like to start by say what I think we can all clearly see : that the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill announce in the Gracious Speech be no more than a cheap and divisive gimmick . it be nothing but a last - ditch attempt to boost the Prime Minister ' s ail poll rating and simultaneously prop up the die oil and gas industry . it be a deeply dangerous attempt at that , because undermine the hard - won climate consensus for short - term electoral point scoring be simply reckless and threaten the progress that all of we in this House have work so hard to achieve . in reality , the Bill will make no difference at all . it will require the North Sea Transition Authority to run an annual process of invite application for new production licence . however , as the Minister well know , the NSTA be already hold annual licensing round — most recently in 2016 , 2017 , 2018 and 2019 . this be only pause in 2020 when it say that it would await the so - call climate compatibility checkpoint before open further round . now that the checkpoint be in operation , we can expect the NSTA to resume regular licensing round , not least because it have the obscene legal duty to " maximise economic recovery " of petroleum from the North sea . instead of add more obsolete and outdated legislation to our statute book , the Government should be bring our law up to date and ensure that they help , rather than hinder , our transition to a zero - carbon society , especially when this embarrassment of a Bill will do absolutely nothing , as so many hon . member have say , to help those struggle household face energy bill that be double what they be two year ago , with a staggering 6 million household in fuel poverty as we head into the winter . indeed , it be the Secretary of State herself who let the cat out of the bag early this week by almost immediately contradict the Prime Minister ' s claim that new licence would help to reduce bill by admit , as we have hear , that " it wouldn ' t necessarily bring energy bill down , that ' s not what we ' re say . " even the Prime Minister ' s close ally can not stand by his falsehood , and it be no wonder . despite the Prime Minister ' s fail attempt to present this legislation as " benefit family " , the truth be that the only people it will help are the fossil fuel company that pocket the profit , because any oil and gas that be extract will be own by private company and sell on the global market to the high bidder — I really do not understand what be so difficult about get one ' s head around that — and because " more u . k . production wouldn ' t reduce the global price of gas . " those be not my word , but those of Tory party chairman and former Energy Minister , the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) . if the Government genuinely care about reduce household ' cost , they would look to urgently decouple the price of electricity from expensive gas . if they genuinely care about people ' s bill , they would work to get off costly fossil fuel altogether , include by bring forward a much - need and long - delay nationwide , street by street , local authority - lead energy efficiency programme to upgrade the UK ' s cold and leaky home . if the consequence be not so dreadful , the Prime Minister ' s claim that his party be save british family money would be frankly laughable , because the Climate Change Committee itself have be crystal clear that the callous decision to scrap the upgrade to the minimum energy efficiency standard for private rent home " will lead to high household energy bill " . in fact , at current price , tenant of upgrade home would stand to save over £ 300 a year , and would still save about £ 250 at so - call normal price . what we have be an energy affordability crisis , not an energy supply crisis , so the Government ' s decision to double down on the very thing that be drive high energy bill be not just negligent , but positively absurd . let I turn to some of the Government ' s other misrepresentation . it be exasperate that , despite be tell time and again that new oil and gas extract from the North sea will not improve the UK ' s energy security , minister continue to rehearse the same old tired line , with the Prime Minister once again point to energy security in Tuesday ' s debate . let I remind the Minister again why new licence will not deliver on that goal . first , 70 % of the remain North sea reserve be oil , not gas , the majority of which will be put in tanker and export overseas because it be not suitable for UK refinery . secondly , the hundred of licence that have be issue already in the 13 year under conservative government have provide the UK with a grand total of 16 day ' worth of gas , half of which be export to the Netherlands . thirdly , the NSTA have itself confirm that new licence would only make a difference to gas production " around the edge " , give the age and geology of the basin . as I have say , the good solution to volatile gas price be to reduce our dependence on gas altogether , not to redouble it . when the Prime Minister announce this Bill on Tuesday , he emphasise its importance in " support hundred of thousand of british job . " — [ Official Report , 7 November 2023 ; Vol . 740 , c . 20 . ] I very much share his concern for worker in the North sea , but the reality be that , while the Government have award more than 400 new licence in the last decade , over 200 , 000 job have be lose in the sector over that same time period , because — I say it again — the North sea be a decline basin . so may I urge Ministers to stop play politic , and instead get on with deliver a proper just transition for worker and community , alongside unleash our abundant renewable to create good , well - pay green job for the long term ? may I also draw Ministers ' attention to the word of Fatih Birol , head of the International Energy Agency , who recently say that those expand oil and gas production could be " take very unhealthy , unwise economic and climate risk " . while they may profess the economic benefit of new oil and gas , we should not ignore the risk of stranded asset , as Mr Birol suggest , which it be estimate could exceed $ 1 trillion globally , nor the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s warn that continue to rely on gas at our current level could cost more than double the public investment require for the transition to net zero . finally , it be utterly bizarre to hear the Secretary of State say early this week and again today that the tax revenue from future oil and gas production , which may not materialise for decade , could be invest in renewable . why not just invest in renewable in the first place , and do it now ? we be ! no , you be not . from a sedentary position , minister say , " we be " , but I would draw their attention to the last round for offshore wind . tell we again how much that deliver ? it be a big round zero — so let we be a little bit serious about this issue . move to the specific of the Bill , the Government ' s propose test be simply not worth the paper they be write on . these test be mean to ensure that a new licensing round support the delivery of net zero , if indeed such a thing be possible with a new round . let we look at the test . the net importer test be suppose to ensure that the UK remain a net importer of both oil and gas , which clearly do not relate to the impact of oil and gas on our climate at all . the carbon intensity test be to ensure that the average carbon intensity of domestic gas be low than the average carbon intensity of import liquefy natural gas . it be profoundly frustrating that the Government continue to point to LNG , the dirty form of gas import , while ignore the fact that more than half of our gas import come via a pipeline from Norway , where gas production be half as pollute as in the UK . bad , these test ignore the fact that new oil and gas production can never be compatible with our climate target . the Climate Change Committee itself observe early this year : " expansion of fossil fuel production be not in line with Net Zero . " indeed , it go on to spell out : " the UK will continue to need some oil and gas until it reach Net Zero , but this do not in itself justify the development of new North Sea field . " I know the Minister may say that what they be propose be not an expansion and that even with continued licensing , as we have hear , production from the UK continental shelf be project to decline at 7 % annually , while not proceed with new licence increase reliance on import LNG . yet that thinking imply that this new production in the UK will replace expansion elsewhere , and we know that that be simply not the case . however much the Government choose to ignore our climate reality , the truth be that there be already far more coal , oil and gas in exist development than can be safely burn if we , our child and our grandchild be to have any hope of a liveable future . indeed , I draw their attention the late UN production gap report , which be publish just yesterday . it reveal very plainly , as I say , that government already plan to produce more than double the amount of fossil fuel in 2030 than will be consistent with limit heating to 1 . 5 ° C . I do wish the Government would end the misinformation that they continue to promulgate . instead , would the Minister confirm if these test will be replace the climate compatibility checkpoint , which be marginally more robust despite abysmally fail to take account of scope 3 emission — in other word , those produce when the oil and gas be actually burn , rather than just the extraction emission — and if so , will she admit that this be a further weakening of our climate commitment , and heed the advice of the Climate Change Committee and halt this legislation all together ? will Ministers also stop Rosebank , which be cynically approve during conference recess , when there be no opportunity for parliamentary scrutiny ? the project be no less than a climate crime and would leave the UK ' s climate record in tatter . at nearly 500 million barrel of oil and gas , this development be enormous — triple the size of neighbour Cambo . if its content be to be burn , they would produce over 200 million tonne of co2 ; that be more than the combine annual co2 emission of all 28 low - income country in the world , which together be home to 700 million people . that be not to mention the fact that the british public would carry almost all the cost of develop Rosebank , thank to the Government ' s generous subsidy regime , which would hand Equinor over £ 3 billion in tax break , all while equinor pocket the profit . in what world could that ever be justify , let alone in the context of the climate and cost of live crisis ? let we remind ourselves that this Bill have nothing to do with protect household , and everything to do with populism and division . it be just part of the Government ' s cynical attempt to stoke yet another culture war by falsely pit meet our climate target against the cost of live scandal , rather than take step to address the very real concern that familie up and down this country face . instead , we have this pitiful Bill , which will do nothing to help anyone except the fossil fuel company . why be the Government not deliver the future we know be possible by , for example , bring in a green new deal Bill to kick start the transformation we need : a future in which everyone have a warm and comfortable home to live in and the scourge of fuel poverty be eliminate ; a future where everyone have access to good green job and a proper just transition have be deliver for worker and community ; a future that be power by cheap and clean renewable , rather than the fossil fuel which be drive the climate crisis ; a future in which the Government have respond to the urgency of the climate and ecological emergency , as we know the public be cry out for they to do ? it be entirely possible to deliver this future , yet what have be make painfully clear by this King ' s Speech be that this Government be neither capable nor willing to do it . we be out of time for our country and our climate . we need a general election now . it be wonderful to see his Majesty deliver his first Gracious Speech as King , announce the Government ' s priority for this year . I be grateful to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and the House for give I the opportunity to participate in this important debate . it be customary in this House to commend the previous speaker , but in this case , I think I will just leave it at that . I would like to see the measure in the King ' s Speech form by the Government into a coherent narrative , so that my constituent in the Cotswolds have a clear understanding of the direction in which we wish to take this country over the next few year . this be an important opportunity to present a long - term vision . our foremost priority be to see our economy flourish and to alleviate the burden of the cost of living . a key component of economic growth will be secure our energy supply , include through the introduction of modular nuclear reactor , which I mention when I intervene on the Secretary of State . it be interesting to note that , despite the recent geopolitical tension , gas and oil price have stabilise to pre Russia - Ukraine conflict level . that stability will translate into tangible relief for household this winter , as we anticipate a notable reduction in winter utility bill . the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , mention many time in this debate , will help to protect hundred of thousand of job in the energy sector and support the Government ' s bid to achieve energy security . as the Secretary of State mention , we should use the revenue from licensing to help to fund the transition to clean energy and job and to support the Government ' s pragmatic approach to reach the goal of net zero by 2050 , which I know be an important commitment to my constituent . the UK be one of the first country to commit to end unabated coal - fuel generation and have cut emission by more than 40 % since the turn of the century . at the same time , our economy have grow by two third . inflation , as we all know , cast a wide shadow , affect every facet of our life and everyone from individual and family to business , Government and local authority . I be pleased that the King ' s Speech open and close on a goal of reduce inflation to the Bank of England ' s 2 % target rate , but I be concerned that while the Bank of England unbundle quantitative easing , it be busily sell bond at today ' s yield , which will lock we into high interest rate for many year to come . I can not conclude my speech without make a plug for tax - free shopping , which I have be champion for many year , with the help of the Association of International Retail . I call a debate in September to discuss how extend tax - free shopping to EU visitor would create a new multibillion - pound shopping - lead tourism market . restore tax - free shopping to foreign visitor to this country would directly create 78 , 000 new job in the UK , add up to £ 4 . 1 billion to UK GDP annually , and result in a net positive for his Majesty ' s Treasury of £ 300 million each year . I hope the Ministers on the Treasury Bench hear that , because it be important . such a policy would be a real win for retail business , manufacturer and hospitality venue up and down the country . I want to take this opportunity to reassure my constituent that the Government be steadfast in their resolve to reduce inflation , which should create the opportunity to reduce interest rate . by the turn of the year , we expect to witness a significant decrease in the rise cost of essential commodity , include food and energy , which will shore up the finance of many household . after the economy , the second big issue be raise with I on the doorstep be the NHS . I acknowledge the challenge , particularly in Gloucestershire , of prolonged ambulance waiting time and bed shortage . stride have be take to address those concern and we be witness a commendable downward trend , but we be aware of the need to make further progress , particularly by strengthen social service to provide enhanced care at home for those who need it , so that people can be discharge from hospital quickly . despite grow waiting list , the NHS be treat 10 % more patient than before the pandemic , and 1 . 42 million people come off the waiting list in August compare with 1 . 29 million in August 2019 . we have see improvement in the backbone of our healthcare system — GPs and dentist — particularly in Gloucestershire , I be pleased to say . we have take step to improve the availability of NHS treatment , and from this month a number of local dentist will be provide some additional urgent capacity on a newly commission contract for both in and out - of - hour work , as well as a number of stabilisation appointment . nevertheless , it be important to tackle the bottleneck cause by strike by junior doctor and consultant , which hinder waiting list reduction and harm patient ' prospect . finally , I welcome the announcement in the King ' s Speech on tobacco and vaping , which will be a step in the right direction of protect the health of future generation . the third big issue raise with I when I speak to constituent be education . I have the pleasure of a productive meeting with the act head of Cirencester College , which stand at the forefront of t - level education — a Government initiative that have witness a commendable increase in enrolment . with the increase from 10 to 13 t - level Cirencester College be thrive , with a record 3 , 300 - strong student body come from a 60 km radius , underscore its importance to our community . I share the act head ' s enthusiasm for the propose advanced british standard and for increase apprenticeship . I know the college be keen to be at the forefront of the abs policy ' s introduction , lead the way in shape policy on advanced education . this enthusiasm stem from a belief that a blend of academic and vocational education produce rounded individual who be well equip for both the workforce and high education . none the less , we must not overlook the press need to address mental health concern and absenteeism among youngster in our school . government figure indicate that 54 % of secondary school pupil who have some involvement with the social care system be persistently absent from school . among other child , the figure be only 28 % . since covid , I have work closely with a number of school in my constituency that have face a grow problem with absent child or with pupil who require mental health support . many of our teacher provide excellent help , but deep - seat problem in our society be not always recognise . young pupil be access social medium with their phone and set alarm to wake they up literally in the middle of the night to see the next episode of their choose thing . that be just one aspect of what be happen in our society today . our ambition to nurture some of the most highly educate pupil in the world be root in our desire to harness the full potential of new technology . from groundbreake medical advancement to the integration of AI , which we hear about in the statement to the House early , we be commit to modernise regulation to facilitate the growth and competitiveness of major tech firm in the UK . that have the potential to revolutionise this country , particularly in respect of some of its deep - seat problem , such as how to decarbonise and meet our 2050 target . a series of Bills , include the Automated Vehicles Bill , the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill and the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill will be introduce to govern the action of those global tech giant , ensure a level playing field for establish and emerge technology . finally , after 15 year of campaign for the A417 Missing Link / Air Balloon project in my constituency , I be glad to tell the House that construction be now begin . the project will provide a safe dual road link the m4 at Swindon to the m5 at Gloucester . what the House may not know , because I have not say this before , be that this be also an exciting project from an environmental perspective . some 140 , 000 tree will be plant , a 38 metre - wide green bridge will span the road and a significant area of rare calcareous grass will be plant . that should ensure that this big project produce a net biodiversity gain — among the first for a major road scheme in this country . the Government must continue to build on their commendable environmental record ; to lead the charge in combat climate change and particularly biodiversity loss , which have not be mention so far in the debate ; to support develop nation in their transition to sustainable energy source ; and to hold other nation accountable for their own environmental commitment , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have so ably set out today . unfortunately , as we have hear from other hon . member , both today and yesterday , the King ' s Speech fail to address some key policy area , and I be go to highlight just three miss opportunity . in 2024 , automotive company such as Nissan in my constituency will experience new financial and regulatory pressure , include the zero - emission vehicle mandate , which require 22 % of new car sell in 2024 to be zero emission , and that will increase to 80 % by 2030 . Nissan , of course , be confident that it will meet all these new measure , but instead of help manufacturer cope with the increase pressure , the Government have pull the rug from under they by change strategy and delay their electric vehicle net zero 2030 commitment . that have inflict uncertainty on investor , which will only delay the critical infrastructure that must be build for electric vehicle use . it also give consumer less incentive to buy electric vehicle , which will simply leave manufacturer foot the bill as a result of decrease demand . that be the opposite of what should be happen : the Government be in the way of progress , not support it . we need they to move out of the way , get out of the seat of power and make way for a Government who have a plan , and indeed a mission , to reach net zero in a timely manner . in the meantime , however , the Government must find a route forward that ensure that manufacturer be not leave to deal with the consequence of Government indecision . the 2030 target be right for the public , right for manufacturer and right for the planet . we must ensure that the right signal be send to investor and customer by delay no long and support the financing of key infrastructure such as much - need battery gigafactorie — I have one in my constituency , but we need at least another eight or nine to reach the 2030 target — and charge point at home and in public space . as well as our manufacturing sector , the UK be know around the world for punch above our weight in music , theatre and sport . we as a country should be proud of our cultural industry , and that bring I to my second point . we be plague by online tout who , often with the help of bot and other malicious software , buy ticket on an industrial scale and then resell they at hugely inflate price . that be occur everywhere , from local football game to our theatre , music venue and arena and , sadly , even our much - love Royal Albert Hall , where Ed Sheeran ticket originally cost £ 200 be resold for up to £ 6 , 000 — 30 time their original value . that come despite Ed Sheeran and other artist , such as Taylor Swift before her forthcoming world tour , explicitly condemn inflate ticket resale and put measure in place to prevent they . Ed Sheeran even write to all the seat holder at the Royal Albert Hall plead with they not to resell their ticket at inflated price . however , some still do . site such as Viagogo , which resell huge number of ticket at vastly inflate price , buy themselves to the top of every Google search by use pay - for ad . regulatory body such as the Competition and Markets Authority — our enforcement body — lack the power to tackle these secondary site appropriately even when criminality be know to be present , and it be almost impossible to enforce against they . when the CMA ask the Government for much - need extra power in the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill to tackle this ticket abuse , the Government say no . one can therefore only assume that they be on the side of the tout — they be certainly not on the side of the fan . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse , and our demand be simple : ticket resale should be cap at face value plus a small amount up to a maximum of 10 % to account for booking fee — I do not want this to affect anyone who genuinely buy a ticket and then can not go to the event . these reform have already see great success in Ireland , where a version of my 2011 private Member ' s Bill — the Sale of Tickets ( Sporting and Cultural Events ) Bill — become law a few year back , although my Bill be , sadly , talk out in this Chamber . it be time that we send a clear message to tout that the UK care about live event and genuine fan , not tout . when the Labour party be in government , I hope we will back that sentiment with legislation , as Ireland have . finally , since the pandemic , we have see a public outcry of support for policy expand school food programme but almost nothing from our government , include in this King ' s Speech . as the cost of live crisis rage , more and more family be struggle with rise food cost . however , the cost of living crisis be affect not only family ; it be also cripple the catering service that deliver school meal to our child . the current funding allocation of just £ 2 . 53 per meal still massively fail to keep up with inflation and have increase only by 5 % since 2014 — that be 5 % in almost a decade . in the same period , the national minimum wage have increase by over 60 % , and rightly so . I be sorry to interrupt the hon . Lady , but perhaps the reason why there be not a note in the King ' s Speech about school food be that we introduce the Procurement Act 2023 , which be very much design to shorten those supply chain to make it easy for that food to get into our school and public organisation . as I understand it , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have promise to look at model such as in Denmark , where there be these target , to ensure that we can improve the quality and value of the food we be give to child . absolutely , and that might help , but that do not take away from the fact that £ 2 . 53 , which be what school get to procure food from wherever they do so , be not enough . every day , provider tell I they be have to start to cut back on the quality of ingredient and , at the same time , raise the price for the child who pay for their school food ; otherwise , literally the whole service will collapse . in my opinion , that be just unacceptable . provider tell I that funding for free school meal and universal infant free school meal need to be increase to well over £ 3 per meal just so that they can break even and provide the high - quality , nutritious meal that we all want to see our child eat in our school . shockingly , 200 , 000 child in England be technically eligible for free school meal but be miss out on this important service because we do not have auto - enrolment . implement auto - enrolment would resolve that injustice quickly and easily . it would prevent more eligible child from slip through the safety net that be there for they and be a great support for struggle family , mean that they do not have to provide a pack lunch every day for their child when they be actually eligible for free school meal . in an even more shocking statistic , there be 800 , 000 child whose family receive universal credit and be identify as live below the poverty line , yet they be ineligible for free school meal due to the ridiculously low earning eligibility threshold of £ 7 , 400 before benefit . that threshold need at least to be almost double to £ 14 , 000 , which it currently be in Northern Ireland . with those 800 , 000 and 200 , 000 child I just speak of , there be a million child in need be fail every day , with many go hungry . our school food system be in crisis , and it can not go on like this , but the King ' s Speech do nothing to address any of that . in my opinion , that be shameful . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) , who make her point with great candour and be , as always , well research . I be honour to witness the first king ' s Speech in more than 70 year , albeit from a tightly cramp room at the back of the House of Lords , not be able to see the King and just about able to hear he . however , it be a true landmark in british history . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to ensure that we deal with long - term issue and change the country for the well . there be an agenda of exciting Bills that will have an exceedingly positive impact on the people of this country , but much of government , of course , do not have to be legislation ; it can be good administration . on energy , I well remember how in the 1980 , before I come to this House , I account manage the computer equipment that keep our power station run , and indeed in the early 1990 I be responsible for the team who keep our power station ' telecommunication run as part of my role at Unisys and then BT . the transformation that have take place in our power station up and down the country be enormous . from have mainly coal - fire power station , it be truly transformational that we now have renewable supply so much more of our power , but what we have fail to do over successive government be invest in the new nuclear power station require to replace the age one . my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) mention small modular nuclear reactor . we must advance that technology rapidly , get it in place and ensure that nuclear play its part , because it be vital for our energy security that we have a mixed supply of energy , with renewable , nuclear , and fossil fuel where require . rise — by the way , the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) refer to the title of this great debate , but he be wrong in that regard as it be choose by the Opposition , not the Government . I will give way to he in a moment . the reality be that we need to ensure a continuity of supply . we should understand that nuclear power be vital to keep the baseload , and we build on that on the grid when demand increase . of course , gas - fire power station be often require at peak and trough when we need to get energy quickly into the grid . unfortunately , it often seem that many colleague do not understand the industry or the science behind it . I be grateful to the hon . member for his insight and education in the vagary of this place — although I have no intention of hang around long enough to become expert myself . he be an advocate of SMR , which he be entitle to be . what be his good guess for when the first megawatt of electricity from SMR will be generate in the United Kingdom ? I be not a clairvoyant , so I can not predict when that will happen . however , I urge my hon . friend on the Front Bench to get on with the job and ensure that we deliver that for the people of this country . it be equally important that we ensure that we be not reliant on hostile regime from abroad for the supply of our energy . the important point make by , I think , my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan , be that the new licence for drill in the North sea that we be talk about be only replace those go out of commission , so we continue to be in a position whereby we enable our net zero transition to take place . it be also important that , when we face hostile regime such as those in Russia and Iran , we maintain our domestic supply as appropriate and , as have be say , safeguard 200 , 000 job in the UK as a result . it be right that we take those sensible decision to encourage the growth of renewable and utilise they , but , when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine , we can not always rely on renewable , so we need a mixed supply . that be my key message for the Government . we do not need legislation for much of what need to be do ; we need good administration , and I can rely on my hon . friend on the Front Bench to deliver that . I turn to other measure mention in the King ' s Speech , the most exciting of which for I be those on smoking and youth vaping . I declare my interest as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health . ever since I arrive in this place 13 and a half year ago , I have be lead debate on the scourge of smoking and try to prevent young people from ever start to smoke . I sponsor the original debate on standardisation of tobacco product packaging and meet Ministers on that . I be oppose by the Government at the time , but of course we deliver that from the Back Benches and the Government take it up . indeed , I have work with Dr Javed Khan to establish the clear roadmap that we need to make England smoke - free by 2030 . I be delighted to hear the Prime Minister ' s speech at party conference — and I look back and see that plagiarism have arrive , because much of it be glean from speech I make either in this Chamber or in Westminster Hall . I be delighted to hear he take up those word of wisdom . I have also speak to Professor Sir Chris Whitty on what we need to do to ensure that smokefree 2030 actually happen . raise the age of sale will prevent people from become addicted to smoke in the first place . government modelling suggest that we will avoid up to 115 , 000 case of stroke , heart disease , lung cancer and other lung disease — admittedly by 2075 , but save ten of thousand of life in the process and billion of pound for the national health service on treat people who smoke . once someone smoke , it be likely that they will carry on smoking for the rest of their life , and find it very hard to quit . the damage they do come in later life , in their 30 , 40 and 50 — that be when they suffer . two third of the public support the measure . it be not a matter of free choice to smoke once people be addicted . two in three people who try just one cigarette go on to become daily smoker . Most of they regret ever start . I do not want any child to take up smoking . it be still the lead cause of preventable death and disease , responsible for a quarter of all cancer and 64 , 000 death a year . no other consumer product kill up to two third of its user . once they start , four in five smoker become addicted before they turn 20 . the reality be that we must raise that age rapidly — I would rather see it raise more rapidly , but at least we be make a great start . smoking have a direct cost to the public purse of £ 21 billion a year — more than double the £ 10 billion raise through revenue . the chief medical officer , Professor Sir Chris Whitty , make the point succinctly : " the key point about vaping … can be easily summarise . if you smoke , vaping be much safe ; if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape ; marketing vape to child be utterly unacceptable . " I welcome the measure to be introduce in the Bill . they can not come soon enough , particularly for young people . I move on to the leasehold reform Bill . we have yet to see the detail of the leasehold reform , and I echo the word of the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) , my constituency neighbour . it be important that we make it cheap and easy for leaseholder to extend their lease and take over management of their building . the Bill will definitely ban leasehold for new house , but not for new flat in England and Wales . therefore , although the standard lease extension will increase to 990 year from the 90 year originally allow , that will not achieve the enfranchisement and the abolition of leasehold that many of we in this House would dearly like to see . I welcome the measure to be introduce , but we must remember that many young people who buy their first property do so on a leasehold basis . they be often not give proper legal advice about what happen and , as a result , they do not understand the consequence . I declare my interest as a chartered surveyor . there be a scourge that we need to deal with in the Bill . I have lot of constituent live in home on housing estate build in the past 10 year that be leasehold and have escalate ground rent . as my hon . Friend say , they do not understand the consequence when they buy those home . we need to address that problem . I agree . the other measure that must be introduce be to stop the scam of property developer build property , sell the leasehold and then sell the freehold to finance company , which rip off the leaseholder without the leaseholder even be tell that their leasehold have be sell . I have be campaign on this issue for some time . it be the policy of some house builder in this country to do that after six month without even notify the leaseholder . consider that individual might not be give the proper advice about the potential consequence during conveyance , it be absolutely disgraceful . the final thing I will say about the leasehold reform Bill be that we need to extend the measure in the Building Safety Act 2022 to ensure that freeholder and developer be not able to escape their liability for build remediation work require for fire safety and beyond . I declare my interest as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for end homelessness . let I be clear : homelessness be not a lifestyle choice . every case of homelessness and rough sleeping be unique . all those individual who , unfortunately , be force into sleep rough on our street need help ; they need to be seek out and give an opportunity to rebuild their life . many may have suffer accident and be unable to work . many may have be in a broken relationship that they be unable to sustain , and have nowhere to live . under my Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 , which I note several Ministers claim to be a Government measure — it be my private Member ' s Bill that the Government support and we put on the statute book — every individual who be threaten with be homeless or be rough sleeping can go to their local authority and seek help . that local authority must give they assistance and provide they with help and advice to get they a place to live . I will put this on the record , as I have do in the medium : we must not stigmatise people for be homeless . they must be help and assist . I want to see the long - promise abolition of the Vagrancy Act 1824 , which make it illegal to be homeless and to beg aggressively . I agree that we need measure to stop aggressive begging , but people must not be arrest for be homeless — instead , they must be assist . our language on these thing be vital and have consequence . finally , the Holocaust Memorial Bill remove an obstacle that have be in the way of prepare the building . I declare my interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on holocaust memorial . we owe it to the survivor , the british people and future generation to ensure that the holocaust can never happen again . I would like to express my thought and prayer for the whole jewish community as the war in Israel rage on , follow the horrific attack by the Hamas terror group , cause the large loss of life in a single day since the holocaust . the Bill be eagerly await ; obstacle have be put in the way , and it be up to the Government to ensure that we progress it as quickly as possible . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . I agree with some of his comment and the fact on smoking and vaping , and I certainly remember his private Member ' s Bill . this be certainly an underwhelme king ' s Speech and Government programme . not surprisingly , it be more notable for what be missing than what be include . where be the coherent , long - term plan to fix the economy , tackle the cost of living crisis , make our street safe , achieve net zero and rebuild our NHS ? while the country be cry out for change , the Tories be simply offer more of the same : more empty word , broken promise , repackage policy and stick plaster politic . this government simply do not have any answer for the challenge face my constituent or the country . indeed , they be the architect of most of the challenge , due to their fail policy that have precipitate a decade - long national decline . over the past 13 year , this Government have trash the economy and erode our much cherish public service . the NHS be a case in point : after 13 year of Tory Government , it be on its knee . it face the most profound crisis in its history : wait of week and week to see a gp ; patient find it impossible to get an appointment with or register at an NHS dentist ; ambulance unable to get people to hospital in time to save life ; dangerously long wait in A & E ; a workforce crisis ; more than 7 million on the waiting list for hospital treatment — it be a system at break point . be in no doubt : my constituent deserve so much well , and so do our dedicated NHS worker , who do such a fantastic job in extremely difficult circumstance . just last week , I meet staff and manager at University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust , which I be proud to have in my constituency — it be probably a stone ' s throw from where I live . there can be no doubt about the passion and commitment of those worker . the challenge they face , though , be immense . they be now see record ambulance and patient attendance daily . there be grow challenge , such as dementia and the crisis in social care , and specific issue in recruit paediatric nurse . all of that add to the grow pressure on service . the staff I speak with would like to see investment not only in the workforce and building , but in new technology that will speed up procedure , decrease waiting time and create well outcome . what they want be an NHS fit for the 21st century . they must feel very betrayed and demoralise by the Government ' s failure to include measure in the King ' s Speech to achieve that , and to ensure the NHS receive the investment and reform that be need to get it back on its foot . let we be clear : my constituent and our health worker deserve a Government who will give our NHS the resource it need , a Government who will build an NHS fit for the future that be always there when people need it , and a Government who have a plan to tackle the immediate crisis in our NHS and address the long - term challenge it face . they deserve a Labour Government . sadly , while this Tory Government remain in place , I fear the crisis in our NHS will worsen , and patient and staff will continue to be badly let down . put simply , our NHS and our constituent can not afford another five minute of Tory failure , let alone another five year . there be a couple of thing in the King ' s Speech that I agree with in principle , but there be little in it that will make a tangible difference to people in my constituency and they need that tangible difference . certainly , when it come to tackle the challenge in our NHS and rejuvenate our health service , the Conservatives be not part of the solution ; they be , I be afraid , very much part of the problem . on Monday , the Prime Minister visit a tiny coastal village on the far extremity of north Norfolk in my constituency , just a few hundred metre from the cliff and the North sea . unless they have hear one of the many time I have speak about it in the House , many people will not have hear of the village of Bacton , but it be home to one of the most important gas processing site in the UK . as we tour the site , we be meet by the CEO of National Gas . I make this point early to the shadow Secretary of State and I will repeat it , because it be a remarkable statistic . last year , there be 260 day when there be not enough wind to generate our nation ' s power . that be nearly three quarter of the year . guess what it be that keep the light on : gas . whatever we think about fossil fuel , we have to recognise that renewable , at the moment , simply can not operate solely on their own . that be why we need a pure mix of energy — a mix that will include oil and gas for the foreseeable future , as well as nuclear , alongside renewable . that be why I have speak in this House time and again about the Bacton gas terminal . the Bacton gas terminal be responsible for a third of the gas supply into this country , yet nobody seem to recognise how important it be . that be until Monday , when the Prime Minister see it for himself and describe it as Norfolk ' s " hidden hero " — a bit of justice that put north Norfolk on the map . for I , the Prime Minister ' s recognition be just the tip of the iceberg , because of the amount of work that be do in the lead - up to his visit . in my view , the need for an energy mix from various source can be sum up in three word : security , employment and the economy . clearly , the wind do not always blow and the sun do not always shine , but we do have our own natural resource . instead of cart they halfway across the world , with the emission that that lead to , it be pure common sense and practicality that we should continue to use they as part of the overall mix and for security . the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill will ensure we do exactly that for the foreseeable future . about 200 , 000 job be clearly link to the oil and gas industry . opposition Members seem sometimes not to recognise the stark reality that we need taxation go into the Exchequer to pay our way and fund the public service that help this country . money do not grow on tree . statistically , I think £ 50 billion be what be raise for the Exchequer from oil and gas company . if we be to turn that off tomorrow , where on earth would we get the money to continue to run this country ? we be in a transition and that be the whole point . we have make a far great stab at decarbonisation than virtually every other nation on earth and we will continue to do that , but we have to do it in a way that do not risk the economy and the hundred of thousand of job that be still dependent on that transition happen at a just rate . bacton epitomise all of that in miniature form . not only do it process an enormous amount of gas through its pipeline ; it be already make the transition . the site have a licence , which be give just a few month ago , to carry out carbon capture and storage . Eni be grant a licence for the deplete Hewett gas field , which be expect to be in operation in the next few year . that alone will have the capacity to store million of tonne of carbon dioxide . but that be just the start . Monday ' s visit be all about get the Prime Minister to recognise that Bacton can also be a green energy hub for the future . for heavy machinery and industry , it be the perfect site in the east of England to be a hydrogen hub . it be the only site in the east , I believe , with an interconnector into Europe — it go to Belgium . if we start off small with blend hydrogen , it be quite feasible that over time the operation have the capacity to be a major hydrogen hub in the east of England . I welcome what be say in the King ' s Speech about secure our energy mix and security . with gas , CCS and hydrogen production all possibly happen in my constituency , it propel a small village on the north Norfolk coast into quite possibly be a major player in energy production in the east of England . it could be an energy hub for the future and it be on a journey to secure more green job for an area that typically just do not have they . agriculture and tourism be the mainstay of the economy , but the site have the ability to secure the high - quality job of the future . I thank the Prime Minister for visit . I thank the ceo of National Gas , Jon Butterworth , who help enormously in raise Bacton to prominence and secure the success we have have in the past six month , and I thank especially Jake Tudge for all his support . the next time the Prime Minister visit Bacton , I do not want it to be describe as a " hidden hero " any more . I want it to be a flagship energy hub in the east , and not hide at all . the King ' s Speech be interesting as much for what be in it as what be not . I welcome the announcement of measure to ensure that violent sex offender serve their full sentence behind bar , for example . in fact , that be my ask in my first Prime Minister ' s question , three Prime Ministers and four home Secretaries ago , in March 2020 . I hope the Government will focus on deliver the prison place we need for that commitment to be worth the paper it be write on , give our current context . the announcement on leasehold reform be also something I have be call for since I be elect . it will be warmly welcome by many of my constituent who be affect , although we see that the proposal will not include new flat and it be unclear what they mean for retirement property and park home . I hope we can address those issue when they come before the House for debate to ensure that we get it right . the independent regulator for football be also long overdue , and warmly welcome . so the King ' s Speech be not all bad . in fact , my large criticism be its thinness . even if we choose to ignore — as the Prime Minister conveniently do — the previous 12 year of Tory Government , with all the chaos of the last year in the House and in Whitehall , with the succession of different Prime Ministers , Secretaries of State and other Ministers cycling in and out of Departments , we have see a year of inertia on some of the big issue face our community and our country . this King ' s Speech be an opportunity for the Government to show real ambition and purpose in the time that we have leave before an election . of course I hope we will see a change of Government at that election , but my constituent can not wait for a change of Government . I remain as willing as I have always be to work across party on the issue that affect they now to help they now , but try to make meaningful change on the issue on which we do have cross - party consensus do not seem to be on the Government ' s agenda . the stark example of that be the mental health Bill that be so shamefully miss from the King ' s speech . mental health be one of the issue about which I be contact most frequently , and it come up at every single weekly surgery and event that I hold in Warrington North , whether it involve carer , scout , sport club , veteran ' group , school or faith group . I have hear so many harrowing story about how so many be be let down . I hear of young people languish on child and adolescent mental health service waiting list for year , only to drop back down to the bottom of the list — the adult list — when they turn 18 . I hear of suicidal people find themselves criminalise during their attempt to end their own life , and of people who be tell that they be not suicidal enough to access any support . I hear of specialist treatment for condition such as post - traumatic stress disorder be unavailable , or only accessible privately at huge cost . and I hear of the shameful ongoing detention of autistic people and those with learn disability , who would be well care for and support in the community . harm be perpetuate every day that the outdated and unfit Mental Health Act 1983 remain on the statute book without reform . it will be helpful if I set out the background . the Government announce an independent review of the Mental Health Act in 2017 . the review complete its finding in 2018 , and the Government publish their response in the form of a White Paper in 2021 . in 2022 , they follow up the White Paper with a draft Mental Health Bill , on which pre - legislative scrutiny begin last year . the Joint Committee on the Draft Mental Health Bill publish a report on its finding in January 2023 . it be easy to understand why all those mental health charity such as Mind , patient advocacy group and people with live experience of our broken mental health system view the Bill ' s exclusion from the King ' s Speech as such a kick in the tooth . after more than six year of work and engagement and cross - party support for change , not only be mental health reform not a priority for the remainder of this Parliament , but the lack of its inclusion in the King ' s Speech mean that it be now highly unlikely that the legislation will be pass before a general election . too many in this place , and in Government , seem to view mental health as something abstract that happen to other people . it be not good enough . another stark omission — I have have hundred of email from constituent about this , and it have broad cross - party support — be a ban on the abhorrent practice of so - call conversion therapy . if the Government be worried about a row with some of the crank element within their own party , they can be assure that Labour Members will help to ensure that a Bill pass on to the statute book , thus secure the protection of some of the most vulnerable member of the LGBT community . there be also nothing in the King ' s Speech about a review lead to reform of personal independence payment , despite the fact that , 10 year since its introduction , the flaw in the scheme be well known and have a real impact on people who need support . People with multiple sclerosis and many other condition be routinely fail by PIP assessment because their symptom fluctuate from day to day . one of my constituent email I recently to say that he have not be able to receive PIP in the year since his diagnosis , despite the additional cost associate with his disability — which be exactly what PIP be mean to help people with . he write : " I have to use crutch everywhere I go . my wife be an unpaid carer . I work from home and although I earn a wage , I feel like the application process be blame I for have this disease . the condition can result in one day a change in my physical appearance , speech and complete simple day to day activity . then the next day I can do the normal thing and routine that people take for grant . MS be unpredictable hourly and at a moment ' s notice " . his experience be sadly not unique . the Department for Work and Pensions lose 70 % of case that it reject on appeal , and in about 91 % of those case the claimant have win without any new evidence be provide . get the process right would mean that those who need help be not subject to a dehumanising and often arbitrary process to secure the help to which they be entitle , and that valuable civil service time be not spend fight clearly legitimate claimant . surely that be something that all of we can agree should be a priority . despite reassurance that the measure in the dropped Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill would be return , only one element of it be include as the sole animal welfare measure in the plan Bills announce for this Session , with other manifesto commitment leave outstanding . again , those measure have cross - party support , as well as widespread support from the animal welfare charity sector . I have have thousand upon thousand of item of constituency correspondence about animal welfare . I implore the Government : help we to help you make some progress , and bring more measure forward . for the sake of brevity , and because the point have be make so cogently by colleague on both side of the House — include my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) ; the right hon . member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) , who , to his credit , be not just read from the CCHQ brief ; and my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) — I will simply point to how much willingness there be to co - operate on make the UK a clean energy superpower . but the focus in the King ' s Speech on oil and gas when new legislation be not actually need to achieve the Government ' s state aim , in an attempt to use energy as a wedge issue , be beneath the government when there be so much more we could be do to accelerate new nuclear , renewable and hydrogen , which have not be prioritise in the same way in the parliamentary time that this will consume . I be somewhat bemused by the prominence give to the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill in the King ' s Speech , give that CPTPP membership be project to add just 0 . 06 % to Britain ' s long - term gdp — welcome , of course , though any boost to the economy be . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , frustrated , like many of my fellow member , by a lack of parliamentary scrutiny on trade , I would like to ask whether the Government have ensure that Parliament will have have the opportunity to debate the CPTPP trade agreement , and to vote on a substantive motion on the term of our accession , before the Bill come to the House . I be grateful for the opportunity to respond to the Gracious Speech . I hope , perhaps naively , that its thinness will be correct in the autumn statement with fund measure to help my constituent with the cost of living and the construction of a new hospital in Warrington , and to support the greening and grow of our economy locally and nationally as a priority . let we not waste the opportunity to make progress in the time that we have leave . if we be to maximise the potential of this Session , there be , as I have say , plenty of area in which we can co - operate on a cross - party basis to do so , even if the King ' s Speech itself miss the opportunity to set out a robust and ambitious framework for that purpose . with another year of more of the same , my constituent and I will be leave wonder why this Government be so determined to cling to power to deliver so little , when Labour be ready and wait to give Britain its future back . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) . her faith in technology — she read her speech from it — be far great than mine . I have see many a speech kibosh in mid - flow . I agree with much of what she say . there be certainly work that can be do on mental health and PIP . I have always be amazed by PIP assessor ' inability to understand the cause or symptom of the issue from which people be suffer , and by their inability sometimes to understand whether or not a claimant ' s circumstance might change . the constant need to reanalyse claimant throughout their lifetime cause a great deal of hardship for family member who have to do the application . my office spend a great deal of time on the issue . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate in support of the King ' s Speech . I be surprised that we have not hear a little more positivity in today ' s debate because , across the House , it be recognise that we have be a leader on energy market , on grow our economy and on cut emission . the Vallance report , for example , identify this country ' s extraordinary growth . between 1990 and 2019 , we grow our economy by 78 % and , at the same time , cut emission by 44 % , which show the significant change we have make in this country and our significant progress in create a green economy . we have to remind people , both in this Chamber and across the country , that we have cut emission fast than any other country in the G7 , which be something to be proud of and to build upon — and we forget it at our peril . it breed hope among our people and our business that we can set up the infrastructure and the network to encourage more business to do the same . I have hear from many member on both side of the House about how they hope to see oil company become a die breed . I say this with a little caution , but I do not think there be a single person in this room who , if we could flick a switch and transition immediately to a green economy — take all the oil industry job and all the investment with we — would not gladly flick that switch . in the absence of a switch , we have to encourage and push the oil company to go green , as so many of they be . the oil company be part of the answer to a green economy . encourage they to invest in solar , wind and marine power have to be part and parcel of that mix and structure . I be also surprised that , in this debate , we have not speak more about the Treasury ' s position on incentivise business to do more to invest in green technology in this country , whether through tax credit , encourage research and development , innovation fund , the UK Infrastructure Bank — I can see the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury nodding ; he know a great deal about this — or the £ 22 billion of capital that have be make available for business to invest in this sector in the United Kingdom . we forget that at our peril , because it will create the certainty to help we transition to a clean , green economy that address climate change . that say , we can all recognise the opportunity . I will cite a few example from my constituency of Totnes and South Devon . the first be marine energy . we have some of the strong tide in the world , and we should use they . until recently , I would have argue that our interest and investment in marine energy have be lacklustre , yet recent trial across the country , support by the UK Government , have show the huge potential to go green in our coastal area . indeed , a vicar in Dartmouth be try to make his church the first marine energy - power church in the country . such thing need to be promote and support . we need to review thing like tidal lagoon . it have be far too long since we have have a proper debate in this place on the Swansea tidal lagoon and the power it would have generate . there be mechanism out there to support these thing , and we have to explore they to make sure we have a diverse mix — not just solar and wind but marine and , as other have say , nuclear , and use the last vestige of oil and gas where necessary . I do not know whether he be still sponsor this Bill but , two year ago , my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) present the Local Electricity Bill . many of we on both side of the House support the Bill , which would have allow electricity generator to become local electricity supplier . I very much welcome what the Secretary of State say in her opening remark , because she talk about upgrade the grid . if we can upgrade the grid , the possibility of the Local Electricity Bill would be immense and we could find all sort of innovative way to power local community . an example in my constituency be sustainable South Brent , which have erect a wind turbine that be power part of the village and help to reduce the cost for those building . we should be try to replicate these thing across the country , but we can only do so if we upgrade the grid and encourage and embolden local community to take such action . it be a privilege to hear the speech of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) , and I agree with much of it , although I be sorry that he will not be vote for the King ' s Speech . he be right that we be a paragon and a model to the rest of the world , and that we have be a leader in this area . where I disagree with he be that I think we be still a leader . of course , we have to take people with we . we be in this place only because people have send we here to represent their view , and there be a great deal of scepticism out there . the Prime Minister be right to be honest with people about the cost of the green transition . he be right to make sure that we be realistic about our plan and proposal , and he be right to try to minimise the significant cost that might end up on people ' s doorstep . those thing be to be applaud , and I do not think they be water down our green agenda . I wish to make a few remark about other part of the King ' s Speech . I serve on the Select Committee on Business and Trade , have serve on the former Select Committee on International Trade . we have to inject a bit more energy — literally — into our trade deal . a number of country want to sign up to free trade agreement with the UK , include Morocco . it want to introduce a solar and wind interconnector to the UK , and an FTA can help to facilitate that . the fact that it be rumour that the connect point will be in Devon have nothing to do with my raise this matter , because I do not believe it would be in my constituency . this do show the power and potential in our trade agreement to find new way in which we can co - operate on an international scale to help harness the power of our natural resource . our trade agreement be the perfect way in which we can help harness and create technology here and trade it with like - minded country around the world . we have already hear the important point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) about battery power and battery technology in this country , and the relationship the UK have with Canada . we need more of that , because that be what our fta can facilitate . my hon . friend know more about trade than many people in this place . in addition to all the different renewable and sustainable energy technology we could be export that we develop here , do he agree that an opportunity be provide by the mere act of have a successful transition from 75 % oil and gas dependency today to 20 % oil and gas in the future ? be see to be able to do that and our show how to do that can , in itself , be an exportable commodity ? my hon . friend be spot on . if we can help and support those emerge democracy and economy around the world to leapfrog the intensive carbon industry that they think they might need , and to go in a green direction , it will be to the benefit of not just our country and economy , but the whole world . we should absolutely be talk about this stuff . the hon . member for Warrington North mention the CPTPP and trade scrutiny . I have cause the Government constant angst by talk about scrutiny . the debate on CPTPP be welcome and I look forward to see as many member as there be in the Chamber now when that Bill come before the House . I firmly believe that if this House be deny proper scrutiny , we be all poorer off in our constituency , with our respective business , farmer and fisherman . it should be part of our due process that we make sure that a proper , significant level of scrutiny be provide in this place . with that in mind , I have a proposal : it be time to update labour ' s Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 to make sure , now that we be outside the European Union , that we have a proper debate on it , with a votable motion if that be require . let I add an aside : it would be advisable to give Privy Counsellor status to all member of the Business and Trade Committee — I declare my interest on that front . there be an important point to this , which be that we can do well , as we have see with the trade agreement that have come before . we need great attendance , scrutiny and ability to talk up the benefit of the trade deal . I be sorry to focus on the hon . member for Warrington North , but she say that 0 . 8 % be not a lot . I urge caution on forecast , because on trade deal they be often wrong . they be judge at a static point , rather than on the basis of how business take advantage of they . in nearly every instance of a trade agreement that be sign — such as the north american free trade agreement , which be predict not to be worth a significant amount to the United States economy but turn out to be worth a great deal more — we should not necessarily go with the forecast . there be enough quote out there to say why economist be wrong . however , I welcome the Bill and the opportunity for more discussion about join one of the fast grow region in the world . let I make a couple more point . I have already speak before in this place about the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . we do badly when we pass piece of legislation quickly . I welcome the fact that we have commit to repeal section 21 eviction in that Bill , but we need to make sure that we have a Bill that work for both landlord and tenant . we have to have that balance , because at it stand we be about to present a bill into Parliament that will deter people from put property into the long - term rental market . it will incentivise the short - term market over the long - term rental market , which will be a disadvantage to the million of tenant in this country . we must be careful about that . it be easy for we to clip small part of our speech in this place and put they out because they say the right thing , but the devil be in the detail and we have to get it right . it be fantastic to see the Prime Minister double down on apprenticeship , t - level and what we can do with further education . South Devon College , in my constituency , be the absolute exemplar of what can be do in further education . it train people in subject from photonic to boat building , bricklaye to hospitality and tourism — the range be staggering — and it have Government funding and support . the more we can encourage business and student to take advantage of the opportunity in their area that lie within our agenda for further education , the well off people will be in find job and the more likely we will be to find way in which we can create business , not just in centralised part of the country but across all the region of the UK . finally , over the last few day we have speak a lot about what the King ' s Speech say about keep people safe . there be no doubt that it be right that we have a robust response to those who have commit the most heinous crime . as ever , we can do far more to tackle antisocial behaviour and rural crime in area across the south - west and other part of the country . local initiative have be set up across the south - west that the Government would do well to support , not least the councillor advocate scheme , set up by Alison Hernandez , the police and crime commissioner for Devon and Cornwall , in which she liaise with councillor across the area to enhance police visibility and engagement , or my own initiative to create police hub in village hall across South Devon , drive up visibility , disrupt rural crime and antisocial behaviour and inspire more confidence that the police be there to help and serve , as we all know they be . it be a pleasure to be able to support the King ' s Speech and to speak up about the proud record this country have in address climate change , reduce emission and create new technology and industry . we should be proud of that , talk it up and never let the fearmonger win . I be sorry to put a downer on the debate , but frankly the King ' s Speech show that the party in Government be completely out of idea . some 1 . 5 million food parcel have be give out by the Trussell Trust in the last six month , thank to this Government ' s policy . I be regularly contact by constituent live in cold , damp home , thank to this Government ' s policy . nhs waiting list be the long on record , thank to this Government ' s policy . and in the midst of this crisis , what be the Government ' s response ? the conservative party be more worried about prevent key worker from exercise their right to strike and crack down on pedicab in London than clean up the mess it have make of the country after 13 year in Government . not only be the Government fail to tackle the big challenge of our future , but they be intent on escalate it . already catastrophic flooding turn million of life upside down every year , include thousand in the UK , while drought be affect food production , cause price to soar . the climate crisis will only make that bad . the science be clear : without decisive action , our future be under threat . but as we have see throughout the course of today ' s debate , this Conservative Government be in thrall to fossil fuel company and be attempt to turn the race to net zero into a culture war . there be no other explanation for their decision to water down climate policy and turbocharge new oil and gas , announce legislation for a new annual system for award drilling license . we must not be fool : it be working - class people who will suffer the great consequence if we fail to lower our emission . the climate crisis and cost of living crisis be two side of the same coin , and there be solution that can tackle both at the same time . a just transition be possible if the super - rich and polluter be make to pay their fair share . we should see the sprint to net zero as an opportunity to redistribute wealth and power in our community . public ownership be an important way of do that , and it be popular too . recent polling show that 65 % of people support public ownership of energy , so I be pleased that a Labour Government be commit to set up a new publicly own energy company that will create job and help we to reach 100 % clean energy by 2030 . a Labour Government would also insulate 90 million home , cut bill and emission at the same time . I be thrilled , too , that our party be serious about prepare young people for their future , with teaching about the climate and sustainability throughout the curriculum in school and college across the country . this be not the King ' s Speech that our country deserve . my constituent deserve action on the climate , the cost of living , and decent job . this government have show that they will not deliver on any of they . perhaps in her wind - up speech , the Minister can tell we when the Prime Minister will be put the country out of its misery and call a general election . there be not an awful lot to talk about in this King ' s Speech . certainly there be not a lot to encourage the people of England , Wales , Ireland or , indeed , Scotland . in fact , there be really nothing in the King ' s Speech for Scotland other than more pain . today ' s debate be about make Britain a clean energy superpower . that sound grand , but it will not help the people who be struggle to pay their energy bill , and what be the cost to Scotland ? the Government ' s North Sea Transition Authority be concern only with the transition of Scotland ' s wealth south into his Majesty ' s Treasury . in 2014 , we be tell that our oil be run out and that we need the broad shoulder of the United Kingdom . those broad shoulder be build on the poverty and deprivation of generation of scot , and that be a price that we be still pay . we often hear the word — and we hear they today from the SNP spokesman , the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) — " energy - rich Scotland and fuel - poor scot " . let we take a look at that . there be no doubt that Scotland have vast energy wealth . accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , as of April 2023 , the project cumulative tax receipt from North sea oil and gas for the year 2022 - 23 be £ 11 billion . throughout my lifetime , Scotland have bankroll the UK Treasury and global corporation to the tune of billion and billion of pound . in 2019 , oil and gas production in Scotland account for 82 % of the total UK production . by 2030 , Scotland will be send south 124 billion kWh of energy — all for nothing . that be 12 . 5 time the amount of energy that Scotland require . with 8 . 1 % of the UK population , Scotland be responsible for almost a quarter of the UK ' s green energy production , 85 % of its hydro production , 82 % of its oil and gas , 90 % of its surface fresh water and 50 % of the world ' s tidal stream capacity . despite that , we have fuel - poor scot . in 2019 , a quarter of scottish household be estimate to be live in fuel poverty . speak to Energy Action Scotland yesterday , I learn that , as of 31 October 2023 , fuel poverty now sit at a disgraceful 34 % in energy - rich Scotland . one in three household live in fuel poverty . that be why , in a Tory - make cost of living crisis , independence be the only urgent priority for the people of Scotland . for some time this winter , Tory mismanagement will be a matter of life and death . none of this be hyperbole . we need only look at Norway , our direct comparator across the North sea . we know that the norwegian sovereign wealth fund be equivalent to £ 1 , 175 billion — I repeat , £ 1 , 175 billion . the scottish equivalent be zero . the UK equivalent be zero . we know that successive Labour and conservative Governments hide the McCrone report from the people of Scotland and hide the truth along with it . Gavin McCrone speak of an " embarrassment of rich " . he rightly predict the rich that Norway currently enjoy , but that Scotland have be deny all along . in return , we be chide by Conservative and Labour Members as scrounger . the destruction of our economy and our community have happen under Westminster ' s rule , and still the robbery go on . in the past , Scotland enjoy some crumb from the table . when I be young , there be employment in manufacturing and supply chain . offshore , there be job . People be content with that , despite the robbery . I listen very carefully to UK Government Ministers when they talk about the great bounty of Britain ' s energy , which be truly Scotland ' s energy . there be no surprise from I there , but I also listen to the leader of the former party of scottish independence , the hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) . all he could muster be a plea for more devolution ; he do not mention independence once . that be not all that his party have abandon . the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) be right that it have abandon North sea oil and gas . that be unthinkable for any Scottish MP , let alone one from Aberdeen , north or south . Scotland face challenge on two distinct front : first , our southerly Government in London and their well - establish rapacious greed ; and secondly , a Scottish Government who have abandon North sea oil and gas , sell off ScotWind for a song , capitulate to Tory tax haven on the Forth and Moray estuary , and drive the case for independence up a cul - de - sac in the UK Supreme Court . they have park the vehicle of independence and walk away from the aspiration of the people who want to live in a normal independent country . I plead with SNP Members to get back on track . the Minister be free to correct I , but there be nothing in the King ' s Speech for my Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath constituent , or for the people of Scotland . Scotland need something more than this . we need more than a party that come to London wait for independence to fall into its lap . it be time for Alba to lead Scotland . People be sit at home unable to buy food or pay their energy bill , while watch the King ' s Speech in its all pomp and ceremony — so much money spend for the King ' s Speech to be so vacuous and void of policy , with barely any Bills , announcement that have already be shelve , and no answer for the majority of the country . the speech be a waste opportunity . the Government have no new idea , no plan to improve the country , and nothing for small business , or for the majority of people in the UK . the Government have make no attempt to help the 14 million people live in poverty , no attempt to tackle rise unemployment , and no attempt to fix our break benefit system . the empty promise will not tackle the housing crisis , the NHS crisis or the cost of living crisis , or lift any of the 6 , 000 hungry kid in my constituency of Jarrow out of poverty . it be not right that in one of the rich country in the world family be have to turn to food bank . the Trussell Trust have deliver 1 . 5 million food parcel in just six month . we have a Government who have give up on govern . they have waste the last 18 month in Parliament . on 100 day , the Government finish early , cancel plan legislation and vote as they make u - turn and break promise after promise . in 2022 , they announce 29 Bills , more than a third of which be abandon or not introduce . in this King ' s Speech , they announce just 21 . we have to wonder how many of those will ever see the light of day . the Government ' s fail economic policy have result in £ 2 . 6 trillion of public debt — the high debt the country have ever face , alongside the high rate of inflation in 41 year . decade of inaction have leave we with runaway rent , rise eviction and record level of homelessness , and Ministers be blame everyone but themselves . despite the bad energy bill crisis in a generation , they admit that their laud flagship plan will not cut energy bill by a single penny . there be nothing in the King ' s Speech that will help people to pay their bill and stay warm this winter , no help for pensioner and child in cold home , and no help for the record number of people currently in debt on their energy . with more than 75 % of people say that they be very concerned or somewhat concerned about afford energy bill this winter , we need a Labour Government that will bring down energy bill once and for all and make Britain energy - independent . we have a morally compromise Government attempt to gaslight the country . their sleaze , cronyism and failure to deliver on promise have leave the country in a mess , degrade Parliament and erode trust in politician . their new oil and gas plan will not deliver energy security . their housing plan will not tackle the housing crisis , help renter or ban no - fault eviction . there be no sign of local housing target or of the reform need to our planning system . the Government say that inflation have finally start to fall , in the full knowledge that that will not help with the cost of living crisis . the damage have already be do , and it will be even bad for most people this winter . they talk up their Victims and Prisoners Bill , when the reality be that they have destroy our policing and criminal court , with 90 % of crime go unsolved and prison already full . their plan to reduce or scrap sentence for abuse , harassment and stalking , in order to tackle the overcrowding crisis in prison , be just appalling . although the Government have repeatedly say that end violence against woman and girl be a priority , it continue at epidemic proportion , with an estimate 1 . 7 million woman experience domestic abuse last year . woman and girl should not be put far at risk , yet those plan could see thousand of abusive man release . the Government blame NHS worker for the crisis in the NHS , when it be their drive to privatise and underfund it that cause issue far before the pandemic or any strike action . the King ' s Speech fail to address the NHS nursing workforce crisis , and the NHS and patient will continue to pay the price until at least the next general election . we need investment in the NHS , not the introduction of minimum service level . only the conservative party think that the answer to the shortage of doctor and nurse be to sack NHS staff . after the past few year , it sum up how out of touch this Government be that one of the only thing they promise to do in the King ' s Speech be to sack doctor . minister have double down on their anti - worker rhetoric , when the right to strike be a fundamental human right , protect in UK and international law . they have fail to tackle those make billion in profit while simultaneously leach money from our public service and dump raw sewage in our waterway , and they hope that people will not realise that the taxis they be pay be the high they have be for 70 year . unfortunately , neither the King ' s Speech nor yesterday ' s statement call for a ceasefire in Gaza . People in Gaza be without food , water , electricity , fuel and communication , and the death toll be now more than 10 , 000 . I agree with Oxfam , the United Nations Secretary - General and many other that a ceasefire be the only real solution . a cease - fire be essential to end the huge daily loss of innocent life , to ensure that aid get into Gaza and to ensure the safe return of the israeli hostage . we must have a path to peace out of the conflict in Israel and Gaza . instead of plan to improve people ' s life , what we get from this Government be divisive rhetoric , a " war on woke " , attack on benefit claimant , attack on minority , attack on refugee and attack on the LGBTQ + community — attack design to make we hate each other instead of hate this Government ' s action . the Home Secretary talk about " decent british people " at the same time as play politic with our police force and want to remove tent from the homeless . those plan may have be drop by the Prime Minister , but they portray the callous and contentious way the Conservatives view people . the Government ' s failure to ban so - call conversion therapy show a vile disregard for LGBTQ + people live in this country . so - call conversion therapy be not therapy ; people can not consent to abuse . the decision to leave LGBTQ + people suffer that torture , and at the mercy of bigot and abuser , be despicable . the Government have previously describe conversion practice as " abhorrent " . they first pledge to outlaw they in England and Wales in 2018 , as part of their LGBT + action plan . that be pledge again by the then Prime Minister in 2019 , then again in the 2021 queen ' s Speech , and then again in the 2022 queen ' s Speech , and yet again by Ministers in January this year . I thank the hon . member for give way on that point . this matter be important to we both , although I accept that we have very different view on it . one point that I struggle with when it come to the discussion about conversion therapy be what to say to young gay man who have go along with transition without talk therapy and then discover that transition be actually completely wrong for they . they now find themselves with complete sexual dysfunction and have in some case have their genital remove surgically , and the same be true of young woman who have go through that . if we call talk therapy " conversion therapy " , and pursue an affirmation - only model , what hope be there for young gay people , or young people who be question their gender , to be able to get the support they need to have a decent puberty and grow up successfully ? I think the hon . Gentleman be conflate the issue here . we be talk about so - call conversion therapy , which start from a place where it have already be decide that people need to be convert . what people need be support and understanding to help they through whatever process be good for they . multiple promise have be make by five different Ministers and four Prime Ministers in five year , and all of they have be break . the work on the legislation have be complete ; it have be work on for year . the Women and Equalities Committee have say to Ministers that " conversion practice be abhorrent and need to be stamp out . " it be time to stop make empty promise , take action and make the ban a reality . with that aim in mind , I have table amendment ( f ) to the King ' s Speech . I hope that as many member as possible will agree to back it , include the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) , and that Mr Speaker see fit to select it . as I say , the work have be do . the Government know that the legislation be vital . the Leader of the House say this morning that " it be still a manifesto commitment " , and that they will update we on progress , but we can not wait any long . they should take action . they must accept my amendment and find a way to bring forward legislation to ban so - call conversion therapy as soon as possible . labour will ban those conversion practice in full . I hope that the next general election be very soon so that Labour can get on with pass the legislation . many LGBTQ + people be suffer now and need the ban to be put in place immediately . I plead with member to back my amendment , and with the Minister to take action . last year I deliver my maiden speech during debate on the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 . it have take seven long month of dither and delay for the government finally to accept labour ' s call for a windfall tax . instead , they spend that time attack we — proof that the Tories be out of touch . month on , and we be still in the middle of a conservative cost of living crisis : stagnant growth , soar energy bill and skyrocket mortgage . to tackle it , the Government have respond by announce the few Bills in a state opening of Parliament for almost a decade — again , a Government who be out of touch . the Tories have yet again double down on oil and gas licence as their solution , but that do nothing to fight the climate crisis , and even the Energy Secretary can not say that it will bring bill down . our community have be hit hard than anywhere else in western Europe , and last summer the price of gas be nine time high than that of renewable . to add to this , their ban on onshore wind , as well as their scrapping of the energy efficiency programme , have add hundred of pound to every family ' s bill . the King ' s Speech also make no mention of the community energy sector , which would build renewable energy capacity and put community in control . it be time we have cheap energy bill and high living standard , and that be what Labour ' s plan for energy would deliver , establish great British Energy so that we can have clean and cheap power produce in Britain ; start a national warm home plan to insulate million of home across the country ; and tear down the barrier to clean power in our community . those measure will create high - skilled and well - pay job , such as over 19 , 000 job upgrade home in Yorkshire and the Humber alone . that be exactly the type of investment — with job — that our community be cry out for , to bring long - term growth to our town and city . on that note , the King ' s Speech refer to regenerate our town , but the Government do not announce any legislation to get on with the job . do the Prime Minister really think that the people of Wakefield will trust he after his track record in office — " Hunger Games " - style funding pot , pit town against town ; service that continue to be cut to the bone , with more cut ; and money be hand out so late and inefficiently that not a single council in the north could spend all their share prosperity funding ? these stick - plaster funding pot do not deliver the long - term change that we need in our town centre . we must replace the business rate system and level the play field between online corporation and the small trader who be the beat heart of our high street . that be the difference a Labour Government would make . that can not be do without people feel safe on our street , but serious violent crime have rise . I recently go on patrol with the hard - work police team in Wakefield city centre to see at first hand the challenge they face . antisocial behaviour in Ossett and Wakefield have see bus divert and passenger leave strand , and constituent reach out to I all the time to say they be not see enough police officer on the street . that be the Tory record on crime and antisocial behaviour . as I mention in my maiden speech last year , the shockingly high level of sexual assault and violence be be make bad by the abject failure of our criminal justice system under this Government . the propose sentencing Bill can not work if victim — include many of my constituent — be have to wait month , if not year , for justice to be serve . some rape victim hear a senior judge say that their perpetrator may have to stay on bail because our prison be too full . this be a Government with the wrong priority , fail to protect our community . to conclude , last June the voter of Wakefield send a message to Boris Johnson that they have simply have enough . over the last year , voter from Tadcaster to Tamworth have agree with that verdict , and they have vote overwhelmingly for a fresh start with Labour . instead , we face a zombie Government who have so little to offer the public that they send MPs home early on half of all sit day in the last session . they really be the dementor of british politic , suck the life out of this mother of all Parliaments , drain the hope and aspiration of our great country over the past 13 long year . this be a King ' s Speech from a Government who be out of energy , out of idea and out of time . the british people have have enough . Change be come . it be a pleasure to speak in a debate about energy , because it feed into the most pressing crisis that all our constituent face at this point in time : the cost of living crisis . we know that high interest rate be not the answer to the inflation they face . Brexit have certainly make thing a great deal bad by increase the cost of import , but the cost of living crisis have at its core the massive increase that we have see in the cost of energy . that tap into our energy security and , as we have hear , it tap into the climate crisis , but it also tap into the opportunity for economic transformation as we industrialise — at least , we have the opportunity to industrialise — through the green revolution . the Government seem to be fail to provide answer in this area . I agree with the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) — word that I do not say very often — that I can not think of a Government , certainly in my lifetime , who have be so ill suit to face up to the challenge of the era we all face . no matter how graciously it happen to be deliver , the King ' s Speech reveal that we have a Government who be not guide by principle , by strategy or by science , whether woke or otherwise . instead , they appear to have make a lifestyle choice — if I can put it that way — to be guide by the whim of a few hundred voter in Uxbridge , where they squeak a very narrow by - election victory , in the vain hope that by pander on the issue that they think bring they success in that corner of suburban London , they might find a wedge issue that will allow they to progress in the culture war they be wage against everyone in the UK except their core supporter , to try to protect they from the electoral wreck ball that appear to be come their way with increase force and momentum . to genuinely be a clean energy superpower , three thing be need . first and foremost , we need an energy market that work . we also need a genuine energy transition , not one that just pay lip service to the idea , and we need government who be prepared to invest in make that happen . on the first point — have energy market that work — one of the reason we have hear for energy bill be so high be the artificial link mandate by Government between the price of electricity and the price of gas , which the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) mention in her substantive contribution . that completely distort the market , artificially inflate the cost of electricity , which hit both industry and consumer hard . another reason why our electricity market do not work be the inadequacy of not just the energy grid , but grid pricing , particularly when it come to electricity . that mean that anybody generate electricity in the north of Scotland pay a subsidy for the privilege of feed it into the grid , whereas the further south we go in the UK , generally speak , that turn into a subsidy for the generator . we be leave with the utterly ludicrous situation of somebody who wish to promote a wind farm in the north of Scotland have to pay handsomely to get that energy into the grid , whereas if they be able to reactivate Battersea power station and burn coal in it , they would end up with a subsidy because of the locational pricing structure we have . that be an absolute nonsense . I can see the brow be beetle feverishly on the Government Benches ; I encourage member to think on that , because it be the situation that the national grid pricing structure have give we for year , and it be hold Scotland back . turn to the storage of energy , the UK foolishly do away with most of its storage capacity for gas , on the flawed assumption that it would always be able to buy gas whenever it be need at the price that be right . we have see the folly of that in recent time , but of course , it be not just gas storage that be important ; we need the mean of store electricity , whether through electrolysis at peak time to generate hydrogen that can be store and release back into the energy system at other time , the great use of battery on an industrial scale , or use pumped storage hydroelectric power . I should confess a particular interest in pump storage hydropower , because my father be an engineer at Cruachan power station in Argyle , and that be where he meet my mother . if it be not for that pump storage power station in Scotland , I would not be here , so I put that interest on the record . [ laughter . ] there be proposal to double the capacity at Cruachan power station , and to develop a very large pump storage facility at Coire Glas . it be the regulatory role of the UK Government in those project , or the oversight they have , that will decide whether or not they go ahead . I encourage the Minister — it might be worth her listen to this — to make progress on those project , because that be one of the way in which we will deal with the fluctuation of renewable energy to meet the baseload requirement . that take I to my second point , which be on how to be a clean energy superpower . we need a genuine energy transition , and that start with a bit of basic honesty about the role that oil and gas need to play . the unlimited extraction of oil and gas be simply not compatible with our climate obligation . however , we also need to recognise that , even if there be not a press climate change catastrophe loom , our domestic capacity be in long - term decline . any new licence that be issue and actually come to fruition be only go to slow the rate of overall decline , and we need to be make an impact where we really can , which be in license new renewable . the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) gently chide we about play politic on this issue . I must say that I always enjoy it very much when the Conservatives decide not to play politic with energy , particularly when it come to the debate in Scotland . while it be tempting to say that the Labour party now appear to have the policy on oil and gas that the scottish Conservatives have long accuse my party of have , we really need to raise the debate from that level . in an exchange with the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) , I point out the conservative policy that dare not speak its name : the Government ' s own presumption against further oil and gas development . it prompt the question that if any new oil and gas development do not meet their test , what then happen ? my presumption would be that they fail , and I understand that also to be the presumption of the Government . it be really very simple : the difference be between a presumption in advance of decide whether we even want new oil and gas and a caveat that we put in place after a decision that we want to produce more oil and gas . a presumption — a " pre - sumption " — be different from a caveat . I be not sure I be any the wiser after that intervention . either a development pass or it fail , and presumably if it fail , it do not go ahead . I will leave the hon . gentleman to dance on the head of that particular pin . on the Government decide to license new field , we need to recognise that not all of those licence will be take up and not all of they will produce any significant amount , so when it come to mitigate where we be , renewable be the only way forward . that be the way to lock in low price for the future and the way to guarantee energy security . the Secretary of State , who be now back in her place , be good enough to take an intervention from I , just as she be reach a rhetorical zenith about float offshore wind . the answer to my question , which she quite understandably choose not to give , be that the last round of float offshore wind option would increase capacity by absolutely nothing because not a single bid come in . the reason for that be embarrassing . it yield absolutely no bid because the price be wrong . the industry tell the Government that , and the UK Government persist in think that they know well . the auction , rather predictably , fall flat on its face , and the result of that auction round be that the increase in offshore wind capacity be net zero . the final point I wish to make be on the need to invest in make this happen . we need to learn the lesson that future oil and gas can only slow the rate of decline , and that we need to be do much well in incentivise the technology of the future . when Prime Minister Boris Johnson pay a visit to the Moray East offshore wind farm , he make a predictably vacuous and facetious remark , say that Margaret Thatcher be a green pioneer through her virtual destruction of the coal industry . just as we know there be no just transition for the miner , it look unlikely that there be a just transition plan for steelworker who may be affect by recent announcement . we need to make absolutely sure that there be a just transition for the oil and gas sector , but it do not look as though there be anything in prospect from anything the Government be plan , other than that it will be everybody for themselves . that be in stark contrast to the approach of the Scottish Government , who have earmark £ 500 million exclusively to aid the transition , onshore and off , in the north - east of Scotland . that sum be equivalent to the amount that both the Scottish and the UK government be put into the Aberdeen city region deal . the failure — the repeat failure — of the UK Government to match that be not only , I believe , a betrayal of the community of the north - east of Scotland , but a complete abrogation of the UK ' s constitutional and moral responsibility . I shall wrap up . what be need be a King ' s Speech that deliver on the mean by which we would achieve energy security , that tackle the climate crisis and that deliver the potential for economic transformation , as well as give relief to hard - press energy user . the evidence be that this be not go to happen in Westminster , and it should be devolve . we should be independent , which would be a well place for Scotland to be , so that we can get on with take the right decision for the right reason , off the back of our own decision mandate by the electorate of Scotland . it be always a privilege to close one of these debate , but to do so in response to a debate on the first king ' s Speech in 70 year be truly historic . I thank each and every one of the 19 Members of Parliament who have take part today . these debate be not just a part of our history or our pageantry , or a simple act of ceremony ; they allow a Government to set their direction , to frame their agenda and to explain to the public what the Government will be do on their behalf , and that be an amazing and privileged thing to be able to do . on behalf of those of we who have only ever sit on the Opposition side of the House , I have to express a sense of genuine envy for the power and opportunity that conservative colleague have , as the Government , to shape the future of this amazing country of ours , although to be frank I think they sometimes forget how blessed they be to have that opportunity . what be it that we have be present with ? the Government ' s major announcement in the weekend precede the King ' s Speech be a propose ban on homeless people have tent , because the Home Secretary believe that homelessness be a lifestyle decision . I be pleased that that shameful proposition have be drop , but should not the Government have a well story to tell than that ? I be very pleased to hear some colleague , include the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , explicitly say that those comment do not carry their support . as we hear the Gracious Speech , we realise that the Government ' s programme be not only incredibly thin , but completely incoherent . it be a speech that promise record investment in renewable energy , just week after the Prime Minister abandon climate leadership and drop key target for the transition . it be a speech that promise a more competitive Britain , without acknowledge the huge increase in red tape face so many of our exporter , for which this government be responsible . it be a speech that promise long - term decision , just day after the country ' s flagship long - term infrastructure project be cancel . Most of all , it be a speech that offer no change , despite the Prime Minister himself say that after 13 year of Conservative Government , change be essential . on that score , he be surely right . this Conservative Government over the last 13 year have be one of the least successful in british history , and now we know that this late Prime Minister will fail on his own term , because he be only offer more of the same . I admire the Prime Minister ' s candour about his own party ' s record over the past 13 year . our public realm be literally crumble , we have the low business investment in the G7 , we have have over a decade of poor economic growth , people be struggle to pay their bill , we be not get the basic right — we be short of house and infrastructure — and we face big and complex challenge like net zero and chart a course to a prosperous post - brexit future . all those thing require the very good of Government . we need a Government who come to this House with urgency and passion , courage and ambition ; a Government who want to work with industry and worker to get the transition right ; a Government who will put the interest of work people ahead of the hobby - horse of their own back Benchers ; and Ministers with vision , drive and determination . but that be not this government , and it never will be . the subject of today ' s debate be make Britain a clean energy superpower , and Britain could and should be that clean energy superpower . we be enter an age that will be dominate by offshore wind , solar , nuclear and carbon capture , and we have several competitive advantage that should make we the envy of the world . we genuinely have the potential to do thing that no other country could do , but that be not go to happen by accident . we need to deploy political and economic capital to make it happen . the Climate Change Committee say that there be a policy gap that amount to a fifth of the emission that need to be reduce to meet the 2030 target , yet I think only one Conservative MP even mention that in the debate . the only way to insulate ourselves from future energy crisis be to minimise our exposure to volatile fossil fuel price . before the invasion of Ukraine , we be never dependent on russian gas , but we be heavily expose to the price of all gas — more expose , in fact , than any other nation . that must never happen again , but it will happen again under the Conservatives . the North sea be an incredible source of british pride and success , and it will continue to have a role in the energy mix for decade to come . but the belief that more oil and gas licence be the answer to Britain ' s energy security , low bill or more job be evidently false and risk both our prosperity and national security — the right hon . member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) make that case extremely well in his speech , and I pay tribute to he in what he believe will be his final king ' s Speech . there be many reference to the legacy of the coalmine and the difficult transition in the 1980 and 1990 — I be from one of the area affect and I grow up there , and I recognise those issue — but the job of Government be to recognise that , when change come , they will help people to make the transition . I have listen to all the speech today , but what be the Government ' s plan , know that a transition will have to come at some point ? at what point will they stop further oil and gas licence ? do they even recognise that those decision have to be make ? if every country in the world maximise its own domestic resource , all of this agenda will be for nothing , and 3 ° and beyond will be the reality of the world we live in . there be so much that this King ' s Speech could and should have say . at the top of my list would have be have a real industrial strategy so that we get the benefit of be a clean energy superpower when we achieve that . such a strategy would give investor confidence after the frequent and disastrous change of policy over the last few year , deal comprehensively with the problem that hold investment back , and see public investment use to leverage in the private investment we be lack . we need the planning system sort out urgently so that it do not take 13 year to build a wind farm . we need reform of the apprenticeship levy so that more money go into the skill and retrain that the transition require . we need a new deal for work people so that they have the security they need to provide for their family . we need great devolution , power and control to go to our town and city . we have to improve our deal with the EU as part of a proper trade strategy that stand behind our great british exporter and strengthen Britain on the world stage . all those thing would bring wealth , opportunity and pride back to Britain . many of my Opposition colleague make excellent speech , which I want to reference . my hon . friend the Member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) lament that the UK be no long show leadership on this issue . he talk about the need to decarbonise building and point out correctly that the Government ' s retreat on energy efficiency standard for domestic property , particularly in the private rented sector , will cost people money . that be one of the most glaring point where the Prime Minister get it wrong in his speech . the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) sum up the Government ' s two - clause Bill by say it would have no impact on bill or energy security and that it represent a gimmick at a time when we need seriousness . if I may say so , I think she deserve a more gracious response to her speech from those on the Government Benches . my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) highlight three particularly significant point she want to see action on . she talk first about the problem of the Government change their target for phase out petrol and diesel vehicle , while local business in her constituency , such as Nissan , have already invest as part of the Government ' s exist timetable . that be a prime example of what we have see time and time again over the last 13 year : deadline be change , and the private sector can not rely on what the Government will do . that be one reason why investment be so poor in the UK . my hon . friend talk of the music and sport sector and her lengthy campaign against online tout , and I would love the chance , as a Business Secretary , to work with she to fulfil her long - stand campaign aim . she also talk about school food and the need to recognise the pressure on the school food procurement system , and her point be well make . my hon . friend the Member for Coventry North East ( Colleen Fletcher ) demand a coherent long - term plan , and she be right that that be at the heart of what we need from the King ' s Speech . in what I think be a very fair - minded speech , my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) recognise that there be part of the King ' s speech that we would all give a warm welcome to , such as the demand for tough sentence , but she be right to ask how that be consistent with the Government not have sufficient prison place for people already commit crime . she also talk of the fundamental lack of ambition in the King ' s Speech and the miss opportunity it represent . my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) talk about how the King ' s Speech be completely incongruous with the reality of the problem that the UK face , and about how the energy and net zero agenda be fundamentally an opportunity — on that she be surely right . the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) say that there be not much to discuss in the King ' s Speech ; I think that be a good line . on the point we hear about the relationship between this agenda and scottish independence , I think it be fair to point out that at the time of the scottish independence referendum , even the independence White Paper propose keep a UK - wide energy market . that be because surely the right way to develop Scotland ' s incredible potential be to match the chance to develop that with a UK - wide subsidy regime . that case , which be make at that time by adherent of independence , should be acknowledge . my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) be right to call the speech " vacuous " and a waste opportunity . she also compare it to the scale of the challenge we face and point out how the Government do not even use the last Session of Parliament well . the Government have not just run out of steam in relation to this agenda ; they run out of steam some time ago . my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) point out the need to address the real , practical thing that be hold the country back . he mention business rate reform , and a commitment and desire to see great community safety . that be what Labour have do , and that be why he be just one of many new member of Parliament on the Labour Benches , add to the by - election victory that we be tot up . finally , the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) give we in his speech not only point about the fundamental failure of Government policy but energy policy as a family love story , which I think be wonderful ; I be sure that we send his family all the good in that . the desire for change and real practical way in which we can deliver it flow through every speech make by Opposition Members . we can offer that change because we have have the courage to change ourselves . we have acknowledge our defeat in 2019 and put our own house in order . as those speech reflect , we have focus on the priority that matter most to the british people and the need always to put our country first in a way that be true to the good Labour government of the past . in contrast , I see a conservative party that be not only tired and out of idea but , unfortunately , increasingly beholden to crank and extremist . this may have be the first king ' s Speech for 70 year , but it be clear that our country need it to be the last conservative one in quite a while . the contrast between the Conservatives and Labour could not be starker : it be failure versus hope , the past versus the future , and short tactical gimmick from a die government versus a long - term plan for national renewal . I have the deep of respect for every colleague who come to this place , make a speech in a debate such as this and represent their community . I believe that the overwhelming majority of we do so in good faith and with good intention . that be why be a Member of this House be , and always will be , an honour and a privilege . but the combination of national decline and the erosion of standard in public life over the last few year , so visibly illuminate in the evidence we have hear from the covid inquiry , be nothing short of a disgrace . this be a Government who be not live up to the potential of the country or the job our constituent need they to do , so we do need change — the Prime Minister be right on that — but it have get to be real change . the only way that real change can come be by give the people what they want and what they need , and that be a general election . let ' s let the people decide on the future and the change they want . only then will we get the King ' s Speech , and the change and hope , that this country need and deserve , and which we on the Labour Benches fully intend to give it . it be a pleasure to close today ' s debate on the King ' s Speech on behalf of the Government and even more of a joy to be represent Wealden , my constituency , in do so . there have be fantastic and insightful speech from member on both side of the House — 19 in total — and I will do my good to run through all the point raise . these debate be a moment for both anticipation and reflection ; we welcome King Charles to open Parliament for the first time , and look forward to his reign , while remember the late queen and her many decade of public service . the last time a King open Parliament be back in 1951 . because I do not sleep much , I glance through Hansard to see what be discuss then , when the Government ' s focus be — as it be now — on protect prosperity , safeguard key industry and protect UK interest at home and abroad . just like Winston Churchill ' s Government seven decade ago , we must turn our mind to similar issue , find 21st century solution to age - old question , many of which be address by colleague today . let I turn to my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , who have huge experience and secure respect on both side of the House . it be interesting that she reflect on the political sketch by the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) , who politicise the energy debate just as he politicise the NHS back when he be run for leader . we be hope for a grow - up conversation , but unfortunately he turn it into a political sketch — [ interruption . ] and he be continue to do so now , which be a shame . it be good to hear my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke acknowledge that we be world leader in offshore wind and other renewable , especially small modular reactor and fusion energy , and to hear about her recent experience in Canada as our trade envoy . she reflect on battery plant and storage , and will be pleased to know that I will publish the battery strategy shortly . she reflect on critical mineral — she know I publish a critical mineral strategy recently — because we can not have a net zero agenda without they . she also ask about the NPPF ; we get a note back to say that it be on its way . of course , that be not within my remit , but I do not doubt that her word have be acknowledge . let I reflect on the comment make by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) and his tremendous work on the Skidmore review . I agree that we have earn a reputation in the UK as leader in achieve net zero , and now that reputation need to be preserve . it be indeed a race , and we start off fast so we need to ensure that we continue ahead of the game . he also reflect on the Inflation Reduction Act , which have change the game plan — I know that , as the Industry Minister — and the challenge it pose for supply chain . it be unfortunate that this will be his last king ' s Speech debate , but I do not doubt that we will hear his voice on this agenda . the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) talk about cross - party consensus — who can disagree with that ? — and about energy bill ; a huge amount of work have be do to cover energy cost , and we will continue to provide people with support as we can . my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) talk about long - term decision . stability should be at the forefront of our mind , not the short - term decision with short - term outcome that seem to be the most popular . he reflect on grow the economy ; on energy security ; on be measure , which mean have a mix of energy in the system ; and on the dependence on gas and oil , and ensure that they be in the mix . he talk about protect power station , include the one in his constituency , and about the importance of have oil and gas to ensure that we be not reliant on import fuel but can rely on ourselves . the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , give a speech that be far more ideological than embed in the reality of people ' s life , and do not reflect at all on our track record on get to net zero and reduce emission . I always find it curious that people talk about resilience but be prepared to let other market boom at the cost of market be invest in and job be grow here in the UK . my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , who be a dear friend and an incredibly powerful treasurer of the 1922 committee , speak about tax - free shopping . I be sure that Treasury Ministers be listen and will respond in due course . the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) speak about Nissan ; later I will speak about the investment make by the automotive sector , include Nissan , and some of the challenge not only around energy but fundamentally around supply chain . I have be work with industry and the automotive sector on provide more resilience in supply chain to get the mineral and critical product need into the UK , so that we can continue to manufacture . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who be also a member of the 1922 committee , talk about good administration versus have lot of policy . he be absolutely right ; we need to ensure that we can administrate well , and if that require work in collaboration , it must be do . he mention the lack of previous investment in nuclear , and say that we need to move at pace to ensure an energy mix in the UK . he must also be commend for his work on tackle homelessness and deal with leasehold issue . the hon . member for Coventry North East ( Colleen Fletcher ) feel underwhelme by the policy set out in the King ' s Speech . hopefully she will be overwhelm by the work now be do by the Government to ensure we deliver for our constituent across the country . my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) talk about Bacton gas terminal , which the Prime Minister visit very recently . my hon . Friend fundamentally believe the site should be the most senior hydrogen hub in the UK . no doubt his campaigning will enable that to be deliver for his constituent . the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) be a fellow member of my Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee . she say that the King ' s Speech be not all bad — I always think that be a good place to start . she speak about mental health and many other issue , but I look forward to continue to work with she , as we do previously on steel and the supply chain . I thank the Minister for give way . she refer early to the politicisation of energy . unfortunately , the Secretary of State inadvertently mislead the House in her own opening remark with the comment she make about Warrington Council ' s exposure in the administration of Together Energy . the £ 37 million bill she quote be entirely wrong , something I have have confirm as one of Warrington ' s mps . will the Minister take the opportunity to correct the record on behalf of the Secretary of State ? I be sure that put that forward now mean that the record will reflect it . if it be not £ 37 million , I dread to think what it be . my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) make a fantastic comment that maybe all the member of the Business and Trade Committee should be Privy Counsellors — yes , but only if previous member of the BEIS Committee be offer that , too . he speak about the fact that we should not forget about the growth in our economy — it have grow by 78 % since 1990 — and the 46 % reduction in emission . we must be positive and promote what we have be able to achieve . he speak about marine energy and maritime power link into a local church . I be intrigue — I want to be invite to come by and take a look . there be contribution from the hon . member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) and — forgive my pronunciation — the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) . I think it be good that the SNP Members reflect on the point that he raise . the hon . member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) speak , as do the hon . member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) and for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . I never think we would end up on an SNP love story , but we be all go to be think about that over the weekend . I be anxious about how much time I have leave to speak . I be close the debate as a Business and Trade Minister , and have many more opportunity come up to help ensure that we deliver on grow the economy and achieve net zero . we have a couple of programme of work that be reflect in the King ' s Speech in the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill and the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . turn to the subject of today ' s debate , the Government be already turn the country into a clean energy superpower . " already " be the important word there , because while the opposition might try to claim otherwise , this work be well under way . let I remind the House of the formidable record we be build on . the UK achieve the fast rate of greenhouse gas emission reduction of all G7 country , while renewable already generate over 48 % of our electricity in the first quarter of this year — the high ever level . of course , we know we can and must go far , which be why the UK have one of the world ' s most ambitious 2030 target . however , the Government be also acutely aware that we can not ask our citizen and business to pay undue burden for achieve our net zero goal , particularly in these challenging economic time . nor can we ignore the fact that Putin ' s war of aggression mean that we be live in a more dangerous world with far more complicated supply chain . as the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have already explain , it be only right that we reduce our reliance on volatile international energy market and hostile regime . she will be do so through legislation such as the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill . the opposition talk about strategy and plan , so let I remind the House that the Government have they in abundance . in fact , the Government ' s green strategy aim to drive £ 100 billion of private sector investment into our green industrial base by 2030 , support around 480 , 000 job by the same date . I be surprised the opposition be not welcome that . however , the Government be not just focus on word ; they be take action . between 2020 and 2023 , my Department alone support more than £ 28 billion of net zero - relate inward investment , create 30 , 000 job . thank to our work , the country ' s economic geography be also shift — from clean technology development in the midland , offshore wind in the north - east and Scotland and turbine manufacturer in Hull , to innovative hydrogen - power bus in Northern Ireland . with the North sea transition deal , the Government be help worker , business and the supply chain in fossil fuel - relate industry to adapt to a net zero future , provide £ 20 billion of funding to encourage the early deployment of carbon capture , usage and storage , and to unlock private investment and job . whether we be talk about our recently announce plan for carbon capture cluster in the north - west and north - east , the first 15 win project to receive investment from the Government ' s £ 240 million net zero hydrogen fund , the port town that stand to benefit from the £ 160 million - worth of float offshore wind manufacturing scheme , or our freeport and investment zone , our policy be create job , reinvigorate community and opening horizon the length and breadth of the country . it would be remiss of I not to talk about my own brief , which cover industry and , fundamentally , the automotive , aerospace and maritime sector . here again , my Department be play an instrumental role . we recently announce a joint investment package with Tata Steel , worth £ 1 . 25 billion , to replace end - of - life blast furnace with electric arc furnace steel production . that will preserve steelmaking for generation to come and enable green steel production to take place in the UK . while we be help manufacturer , include steel producer , to access low - cost hydrogen through the net zero hydrogen fund , we be also enable our world - renowne automotive sector to seize the opportunity of the net zero transition . for instance , we have the automotive transformation fund from the Advanced Propulsion Centre , and the Faraday battery challenge . that have unlocked investment into the UK . Stellantis be produce electric van at its Ellesmere Port plant , the first factory to be dedicate to the manufacture of electric vehicle , BMW Group be invest £ 600 million to bring two new all - electric mini model to Oxford by 2026 , and Tata have announce a £ 4 billion investment in Europe ' s large here in the UK . all that show what our strategy be already provide . I thank the Minister for make an important point about job creation . as I say in my speech , the net zero review point to the 480 , 000 additional job result from green industry . when it come to green steel both in Port Talbot and in Ellesmere Port , and the future of electric arc furnace , do the Minister agree that , as politician on both side of the House , we need to fight the corrosive disinformation that green steel be somehow cost job — there would otherwise have be 6 , 000 job loss in Port Talbot rather than 3 , 000 potential job transfer — and point out that it be green industry that be keep job alive ? if we stick with the status quo , we will simply lose every job . that be a valuable point . the most frustrating aspect of be a Minister be the lack of sufficient time and space to talk about some of the challenge and how we respond to they . if we have not provide support to enable Port Talbot to have those electric arc furnace , thousand of job would have be lose . unfortunately , however , there be always some people who argue that change inevitably bring challenge , and we get stick on that point . however , our investment mean that those job be now secure , as be , I believe , more than 10 , 000 job in the supply chain . that will give people the reassurance that they need about their continue ability to produce steel or product in the supply chain . owe to the importance of this issue , I must add something to the record . as the Minister and the Secretary of State know , electric arc furnace be not the only way to decarbonise the steel industry . there be example around the world of the use of ammonia and hydrogen in what be know as the direct reduce iron process , and other technology be under way . be we to be the first develop country to lose the capacity to make virgin steel ? that appear to be government policy , but I be not sure that the Minister could deliver the necessary vote for that on her own side of the House . I think she should clarify whether it be indeed government policy , because she would not say so during yesterday ' s exchange on the urgent question . we be talk about Port Talbot and the change to electric arc furnace there . there be , of course , the DRI hydrogen option , but it will not come online within the time that be require to provide the change from blast to electric arc furnace . that be a commercial decision take , with the union , at Port Talbot . when a technology involve hydrogen be advanced and can be commercialise , that will no doubt become an option , but we be where we be . People might think we can jump from one to another without a transition , but we be provide support for the transition to support job in these community . I believe I have until 5 o ' clock , but that might distress our colleague . I will conclude , although I be prepared to continue . they be all listen . they be all listen . just over 70 year ago , in 1951 , Churchill ' s Government stand on the cusp of an extraordinary era of innovation that herald the computer and the space race , and today we be on the edge of a new , equally significant age of green technology and innovation . it be thank to this Government ' s hard work and focus that we be ready to seize the opportunity with both hand as we grow the economy , ensure our energy security and provide a prosperous future for the country and its people . our policy will turn this country into a green powerhouse , which will not only transform our community but provide leadership to the world . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) debate to be resume on Monday 13 November . funding for Canals Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Gagan Mohindra . ) it be always a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker . I draw the House ' s attention to the funding of canal , particularly in an area of my locality call the Northern Reaches , just north of carnforth in a place call Tewitfield — a place I know very well . back in January 2011 , I table an early - day motion highlight the need to restore the canal system between Carnforth and Kendal know as the Northern Reaches . the EDM read : " that this House note that the Northern Reaches be an historic waterway begin in 1792 link Preston , Lancaster , Kendal and the Lune Estuary via a branch to Glasson Dock ; further note that since the Second World War the waterway have decline and part have be fill in ; applaud the work of the Lancaster Canal Restoration Partnership in work towards reopen the northern Reaches ; and call on the whole community to support this important project , rebuild a unique part of the UK ' s industrial heritage . " I think it be a shame that part of our heritage be lose to time and transport change in the last mid - century . the Northern Reaches be not in my constituency , so I could not do anything constructive to help the grow number of volunteer dedicate to restore this heritage gem until now , as the Northern Reaches be come into the new constituency of Morecambe and Lunesdale . last Friday I be invite to celebrate the completion of the Stainton aqueduct and Lancaster canal towpath trail project , host by the Canal & River Trust . the successful £ 2 . 5 million project be make possible by the generous grant of £ 1 . 3 million from the National Lottery Heritage Fund and £ 400 , 000 from the Rural Payments Agency , and by contribution from Cumbria County Council and the Ramblers Association . I meet the volunteer and explain that , over the year , I have be watch their amazing effort and progress in restore the local waterway . I show they the research I have commission over the year from the House of Commons Library and the obscure book I have collect about the Northern Reaches , as little be know other than the rumour that it be fill in with rubble from the building of the M6 motorway back in the 1950 and ' 60 . the volunteer have an encyclopaedic knowledge , and they have already restore a significant portion of the reach over the year at the Kendal end . Post covid , the job , tourism and general wellbeing that can be realise by the restoration of this facility be now need more than ever , especially with the Eden Project on the horizon in my constituency , as the original towpath can be reutilise as a walk path or rural cycle lane concoct Lancaster and Kendal , which fit in with my holistic vision of the green tech and tourism that my area can offer to the rest of the UK . the volunteer I speak to be astonish that the " Eden MP " , as I be flatteringly call , have be deeply interested in their cause . they be also amazed that I have already secure a debate in the House of Commons on canal funding in the week of the King ' s Speech . I tell they it will focus on the Northern Reaches , and I touch on my idea of water security distribution for the population via the canal system . the Lancaster canal be construct between 1792 and 1819 , a very long time ago , with the Glasson branch link to Glasson dock be add in 1826 . the canal originally extend from Kendal , in the north , to Aspull , near Wigan , in the south . the Lancaster canal be construct primarily to move coal and limestone . the merchant of Lancaster want to improve the supply of coal from around Wigan into north Lancashire and to supply the south with limestone . another import from Wigan be I , into my constituency , but that be for another time . the Act of Parliament " for make and maintain a navigable Canal from Kirkby Kendal in the County of Westmorland to West Houghton in the County Palatine of Lancaster " be obtain in 1792 . in the follow year , another Act be obtain to build a branch from the canal near Galgate to the recently complete Glasson dock . when first build , the Lancaster canal be 69 mile long . the canal between Preston and Tewitfield , just north of Carnforth , be open in November 1797 . the route north from Tewitfield to Kendal — the Northern Reaches , as we now know it — be build from 1813 and be complete in 1819 . Coal be the most important commodity carry on the canal , but in practice anything be carry . several packet boat be establish specially to move people and small parcel . speed be of the essence , especially when the canal be compete with the railway line from the 1830 onwards . a little - know aspect of the canal ' s history be that in 1940 its central section be fortified to form a defensive stop line — this be relatively common in the south but perhaps unexpected in the north - west . the purpose be to protect the north - south communication line . many of the bridge be alter , and tank trap and other impediment be instal , many of which be still visible to this day . the final half mile of canal into Kendal be close in the early 1940 . sadly , in 1947 , the last commercial boat sail on the canal carry coal from Preston to Lancaster . the canal be nationalise in 1948 and the Lancaster canal become part of the Docks and Inland Waterways Executive of the British Transport Commission . the canal be close above Stainton Crossing bridge , above Stainton aqueduct , follow the Transport Act 1953 . this be all very technical and it all start in the late 1940 and early 1950 . then , during the 1960 , as I allude to before , the construction of the M6 motorway cut the canal above Tewitfield in several place . later , the canal be far cut by the construction of the A590 link road to Kendal . the canal between Preston and Tewitfield remain class as a " cruise waterway " , whereas the Northern Reaches be deem to be " remainder waterway " , follow a 1955 Act of Parliament , and the canal be carve up by further road transport . if restore , the northern Reaches would connect to the Millness to Stainton section of the Lancaster canal . the name Northern Reaches refer to a 14 mile stretch of the Lancaster canal that be isolate during the 1960 when the M6 motorway be build . importantly , the Fraenkel report recommend that the towpath be keep clear from the amenity development by local authority at this time . however , with hindsight , most will see all this as cultural vandalism . obviously , I would like to ask my friend the Minister whether there be any costing on the reinstatement of the Northern Reaches canal network . the Lancaster Canal Trust state in its 2019 restoration report that it have raise £ 13 , 000 for the restoration of the " first furlong " of the Northern Reaches , which I will talk about later . be any further fund in place to improve the towpath in its entirety , as outline in the 1950 fraenkel report ? the Lancaster Canal Trust be plan a strategy to maximise the opportunity to secure the funding likely to be require to make the restoration of the Northern Reaches to Kendal a reality . originally found to oppose the closure of the canal to navigation in the 1960 , the trust be now dedicate to its restoration . I believe that work be complete to restore the " first furlong " , a 200 metre section between bridge 172 and 173 , near Stainton . I believe further work be be plan for a further 400 metre . this trust be exemplary ; it actually get thing do , which I really like to see in my community . indeed , I be excited to be invite to the celebration of the completion of the Stainton aqueduct and Lancaster canal towpath , host by the Canal & River Trust . the successful £ 2 . 5 million project be make possible by a generous £ 1 . 3 million grant from the National Lottery Heritage Fund . Lancaster Canal Regeneration Partnership have arrange funding to upgrade the towpath between Hincaster and Stainton to a multi - use route , and it be already a public right of way . in June 2023 , Westmorland and Furness Council award the trust a lawful development certificate , as I mention , confirm that it could line and rewater another 400 metre section between bridge 173 and the a590 . these may just be point on a map to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but they be very important to my community . separately , the Lancaster Canal Regeneration Partnership be register as a community interest company in December 2022 . the LCRP include the Lancaster Canal Trust , the Canal & River Trust , the Inland Waterways Association and local authority . the LCRP have previously seek to fully rewater the Northern Reaches and restore it to cruise standard . however , its current focus be on restore the towpath along the canal between Lancaster and Kendal . background to those proposal and progress to date be set out in a report to South Lakeland District Council . our canal have truly see a renaissance over the past 70 year , and recover from the dark day of decline and dereliction of the mid - 20th century . with more boat on the waterway and the use of the towpath more popular than ever , we be see their benefit realise on a grand scale once again , repurpose for leisure and recreation , health and wellbeing . that must be make permanent . canal play a wide role . at a time when our water supply have never be more critical , because of our change climate and the increase risk of drought , the trust ' s canal improve the resilience of the nation ' s water security . they have inadvertently come back into fashion because of global warming . they currently move water around the country to support water supply for approximately 5 million people , include those in Bristol and part of Cheshire , and the trust can support more such water transfer scheme . about half the trust ' s planned asset spend be now on reservoir safety , add nearly £ 100 million to its priority expenditure over the next five year to 2027 . as a not - for - profit charity , the Canal & River Trust be arguably the large urban blue space provider in the UK . a rigorous evaluation , summarise in the recently release " value our Waterways " report , evidence that it deliver £ 4 . 6 billion - worth of social welfare value for the nation each year , plus £ 1 . 5 billion per year in economic value , support 80 , 000 job . that be very significant . our inland waterway be a national treasure and a critical part of our national infrastructure . as outline , I would like to see the Northern Reaches restore in its entirety , but I realise that it have take the brave volunteer decade to preserve and improve in part what be already there . will the Minister write to I with an estimate cost for the full restoration and a breakdown of what can be achieve in the short term , for example with the towpath ? what funding stream be available to assist the trust and volunteer group ? I will soon dedicate a full day to take a walk along the Northern Reaches — I can ' t wait — with Bill Froggatt , from the Canal & River Trust , who have help I immeasurably with this speech , along with chief executive officer , Richard Parry . in the future , I be sure they , along with the fantastic volunteer , will become like a new family to I , post Eden campaigning . what an absolute delight it be to listen to my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( David Morris ) , speak with such passion about the value of England ' s waterway . it make I think about my nana , Nana Alice , one of the famous Robinsons from Kendal . in 1947 she would have be live just outside Kendal , at Brigsteer , and will certainly have know , and possibly travel on , that canal , so it mean something to I personally to see this project fulfil . although I be not the Minister responsible for inland waterway , I be the Minister responsible for access in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . perhaps my hon . friend would be so kind as to invite I along when he spend his day in the area ? if my diary allow , I will certainly prioritise that but , if not , I will make another trip to visit the volunteer . it be the volunteer my hon . friend describe who be really make the most of the inland waterway , include through partnership and work with local authority . may I take this opportunity to let the House know that we be introduce local nature recovery strategy across 48 upper - tier authority ? these will prioritise how those authority can create more access , and that will be do in partnership with our legal commitment that everyone , wherever they live in England , will be able to access a blue or green space within a 15 minute walk . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for give way . I do appreciate her help with this . I also wish to commend the hon . Gentleman ' s work on this matter . from another corner of England , in my constituency of Reading and Woodley , we be very fond of the Kennet and Avon canal , which be a significant waterway . sadly , some of the access have deteriorate a little in recent time and we have have some issue with the Environment Agency not remove sunken boat , and also problem with litter . resident appreciate the ability to access waterway . they be a wonderful part of our heritage and be important to neighbourhood . I think the hon . Gentleman ' s speech about his area be wonderful . can the Minister advise I on how we can well work together on this important matter ? I realise that the funding have unfortunately be cut , but there be partnership in place . perhaps she or a colleague could write to I to update I and my local council on some of the fund that be available . certainly , and I will come on to just how much funding have be make available . I draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention to the National Lottery Heritage Fund , which have provide £ 454 million recently to a couple of project . moreover , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , through levelling - up funding , have provide more than £ 33 million to another couple of project . that be perhaps an area that my hon . friend could also look into . I know very well that he have previously be incredibly successful in secure level - up funding . as a champion of the Morecambe Eden project , I understand that £ 50 million have be raise through the levelling - up project in his area , so I be well aware of his capability in that field . in response to the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , let I say that I would be delighted to look into funding opportunity , specifically around access . I will write to he about that , because I be not familiar with what might be available at this time . on the wide funding for canal and inland waterway , we know — because my hon . friend have just explain — how important these national heritage asset be , provide many public benefit . I be also fully aware of how important it be to have access to water and green space for our physical health and mental wellbeing , not to mention the benefit that they provide for nature . those benefit be set out in our Environmental Improvement Plan . halt the decline of nature by 2030 and increase its abundance thereafter be the apex priority follow the Environment Act 2023 . canal and waterway , river , lake , coastal area and stream be fundamental to that . People enjoy be by canal and waterway and use they for leisure and recreation , as well as , in the case of canal , for their historical value . they form an important part of our natural environment by provide the green corridor along which biodiversity can flourish , as well as contribute to the growth of local economy , such as through domestic tourism . the Canal & River Trust report that there be nearly 900 million visit to its canal last year , many of which be repeat visit — with around 10 million individual user each month . that give we a real sense of the scale and popularity of our canal . I pay tribute to the Canal & River Trust for the work that it do day in , day out to look after the network . our navigation authority have an important role to play into the future as well , because they will make sure that our nation ' s key infrastructure be resilient to climate change . as we have set out in our national adaptation plan of how we will mitigate and adapt to the risk set out by Climate Change Committee , these waterway may suffer the consequence of climate change more than other . importantly , the work that the navigation authority do will help we meet our net zero target through sustainable transport and energy generation , and help to achieve water security through flood mitigation measure and water transfer . I will write to my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale with the specific of any funding analysis that have be do . as I say , I be not the Minister responsible for inland waterway , but I will take the time to write a detailed analysis if I can . I may require further information from the volunteer and the partnership that he mention . the Canal & River Trust and the Environment Agency be the two body that receive direct funding , and it be important to be clear that we will continue to provide significant funding . the Canal & River Trust be set up in 2012 as a charity independent of Government . the idea be to replace the publicly own british Waterways and free it from public spending constraint . the trust own and manage a network of some 2 , 000 mile of canal and river in England and Wales . the original endowment in 2012 be £ 450 million , but it be now worth £ 1 billion . from 2027 , £ 400 million be propose to be grant over a 10 - year period . we will continue to support the Canal & River Trust , but we certainly encourage it to work with other to make the most of the commercial opportunity as well . now that the trust be free of public sector financing constraint , it can source alternative revenue stream , include charitable donation and legacy , charity tax relief , third - party project funding and borrowing on the financial market , while continue to receive a substantial government grant . the trust be also endow by the Government with a significant property and investment portfolio from British Waterways . as I say , it be originally worth £ 450 million and be now worth over £ 1 billion . that be the result of sound investment management by the trust . to provide further support and financial certainty for the trust while it be become establish , the Government agree in 2012 to provide a 15 - year grant of around £ 740 million . an important part of the 2012 transfer from British Waterways be the memorandum of understanding sign by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the trust , which contain a clear objective that the trust would progressively move towards great self - sufficiency and reduced reliance on public funding , through its £ 1 billion property and investment portfolio and freedom from public sector financial constraint . follow a Government review of current grant funding that be announce in July this year , a further substantial grant funding package have be announce that will provide £ 400 million across the 10 - year period from 2027 . importantly , that will bring the total amount of Government support for the trust to around £ 1 . 1 billion since 2012 . I also want to discuss the funding for the Environment Agency ; as I mention , there be two body that look after the network of canal and river . the Environment Agency ' s 630 mile of navigation be fund in the form of an annual grant in aid . for the three - year period from 2022 - 23 to 2024 - 25 , that amount to £ 73 million . I hope I have set out that this government really have support canal and river , whether through the Canal & River Trust or the Environment Agency , but that there be other way in which those organisation can bring in additional funding , as we have hear . to focus on the project that my hon . friend be progress , which be the most important thing , I can not commend too highly the volunteer and their ambition for their area . the project have such importance for the local community , because it will not only bring back something that be last use in 1947 , but will bring benefit such as tackle climate change , improve people ' s physical and mental wellbeing , and support biodiversity . that be absolutely what we should be do . it support the target of the environmental improvement plan and the work of group such as Sustrans , public right of way and national trail . we all recognise the benefit of be near water and appreciate nature — and , goodness I , we all need to get a little bit more active . I confirm that I will write to my hon . friend with the detailed analysis of the funding for the project so far , and I will take a look at other funding stream as well . most importantly , I look forward to visit he , perhaps in Kendal , to congratulate the volunteer on their hard work and success to date . it be brilliant to end today ' s sit with some wonderful good news about a really successful big society mission . question put and agree to . House adjourn .