Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — BBC Mid - term Review whether she have have recent discussion with the BBC board on the implementation of recommendation in the BBC mid - term review . the BBC be a hugely value institution , and the mid - term review seek to ensure that it continue to provide an outstanding service by improve its process in relation to both impartiality and complaint . I regularly meet the BBC ' s chair and director - general , and I will continue to use those meeting to raise these important issue . I start my career as a BBC reporter , and I firmly believe in the importance of our national broadcaster be both independent , particularly at moment and era such as this , and completely impartial . however , every year , many people complain that the BBC be not as impartial as it should be , even that it be biased , and the BBC then dismiss the vast majority of those complaint . do my right hon . and learn Friend think that the public would perhaps have more confidence in how those complaint be investigate if they be investigate independently from the outset ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the public rightly expect the BBC to be an exemplar of impartiality . our review highlight issue in relation to both impartiality and complaint . as a result , the BBC will undertake significant reform on both impartiality and complaint . at the charter review , as I have already say , we will examine whether the BBC first process remain the right complaint model . my innate lack of deference have probably not get I far in this place over the past 22 year , but it be good to see you in your rightful place this morning , Mr Speaker . the BBC be a great british institution , as the Secretary of State say . in consider the mid - term review , will she reflect on the importance , in this era of fake news , biased comment and social medium , of have a space in which information and news be present impartially and in accordance with editorial guideline ? the BBC be criticise from the left and the right , which probably reflect the fact that it generally get thing right . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that the BBC play a critical role . it be extremely trust not only here but across the world . the BBC be an important institution , which be why it be so important that it remain impartial . I know that the director - general agree and , like I , think there be more to do . that be why , in the mid - term review , we set out thing that the BBC continue to need to look at . the BBC agree with our mid - term review and have accept all our recommendation . short - term Lets : National Registration what progress her Department have make on introduce a national registration system for short - term let . what progress her Department have make on introduce a national registration system for short - term let . what progress her Department have make on introduce a national registration system for short - term let . the Government have deliver the legal framework for a registration scheme for short - term let in England under the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 and have consult on the scheme ' s design . on Monday we announce that we will implement a national mandatory registration scheme across all of England . we will set out further detail later this year on how the register will operate . I thank the Minister for her answer , and I thank the Secretary of State for her engagement on this issue both now and in her previous role as Housing Minister . it be great news that there will be a mandatory short - term let register , which will hopefully begin to relieve some of the pressure on our local housing market . how can we ensure that North Devon ' s tourist economy fully benefit from these change ? my hon . friend be a real champion for her local Devon tourist economy , and she be aware of the challenge that tourism can present in local community , especially when it come to short - term let , which can make it too expensive for people work in the tourism industry to live near their job . this be a difficult issue , and we be try to strike the right balance between people be able to have second home and ensure that hotel have a level playing field and that the local community have the right accommodation . I appreciate my hon . friend ' s campaign on this issue . the next phase of the project will work with the sector to get the detail of the registration scheme right . we will be reach out to representative of the visitor economy and likely user of the scheme to make sure it deliver for everybody as simply as possible . North Norfolk have a significant number of holiday let , Airbnbs and the like . I be glad that the Minister say the Government will look at this in moderation because , in life , too much of anything be sometimes a bad thing . there be a difference , a nuance , between a person who rent out a room in their home via Airbnb to earn some extra income and whole street and area be turn into holiday let . can the Minister assure I that we will properly consider the nuance ? I can provide my hon . friend with that assurance . we be aware that the proliferation of short - term let have cause real concern in community such as his . we do not want to clamp down in a way that will make life difficult for people who rent out their room on a very irregular basis , but as he say , when whole street be cause a problem , we think the most important thing be that we get an understanding of the scale of the problem . our scheme be design to give we that datum and the next step can be take after that . I call Bob Blackman — not here . Cambridge have long suffer from the antisocial behaviour problem associate with short - term let and Cambridge City Council have long ask for action , so I welcome this long overdue announcement . will the Minister say more about enforcement and the resource that be need for council to enforce , so that we can actually deal with the antisocial behaviour problem that , sadly , too often come with short - term let ? I thank the hon . member for raise the issue in Cambridge city , and I appreciate that in a city such as that that there will have be significant problem in this area . he may be aware that this be a joint announcement with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . we be there to put the mandatory register together , which give we the datum that local authority can use , but it will be for DLUHC to look at the some of the power that can be implement to deal with the antisocial behaviour problem that the hon . Gentleman cite . I thank the Minister for those answer . tourism and short - term let be very important to my constituency , and I understand the issue clearly . there be benefit — it be not all negative — and it be important that the positive be mark up as well . let I ask she a simple question : now that we have a reactivated Northern Ireland Assembly on the go and work hard — [ interruption . ] — will she share some of her idea on this issue with it , and in particular , with the council in my Strangford constituency ? I thank the hon . member for his question , but unfortunately , on the point of substance , somebody cough and I slightly miss the key point — I apologise . I think he ask about share expertise with Northern Ireland . we will be happy to do so , because it be important to learn the lesson of how these issue be be address across the country . in labour - run Wales , there be a real mess over how to deal with the issue of holiday accommodation , and the situation be similar in Scotland . we want to learn those lesson for the english scheme and we will be happy to share the lesson with Northern Ireland . gambling : consultation what progress her Department have make on respond to the consultation on the gambling White Paper . the Government launch three consultation follow the gambling White Paper . we be consider all the evidence that be receive and will publish the Government response soon . our response to the consultation on the introduction of the online slot limit be due to be publish imminently , and we be on track for implementation of the recommendation by the summer . will the Minister ensure that the highly regulate land - base industry can well innovate and grow by , for example , ensure that the right option be choose on the change propose to machine rule for the adult gaming sector , which be out for consultation ? the hon . Lady be right that the rule for the land - base sector have be very out of date for some time . that be why do these consultation have be really helpful ; it have identify further work that need to be do . we have have a second consultation on some of that but , again , we will still be on course to implement the change by the summer . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the unregulated black market for gambling cause untold devastation to people ' s life , even when they be try to quit , so what be the Government do to protect family from the illegal black market in gambling ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the danger of the black market . that be why , as part of the White Paper , we say that we would give more power to the Gambling Commission to be able to close down those black market website which , frankly , be really quite dangerous . Gala Bingo Hall : kettere if she will meet promoter of the bid to the cultural development fund to restore the Gala Bingo hall in Kettering . I welcome my hon . friend ' s interest in the cultural development fund . as the application process for its fourth round be live , unfortunately minister be unable to meet bid promoter at present . two remarkably talented and enthusiastic individual from Kettering , Beccy Hurrell and Lindsey Atkins , have put together a really ambitious £ 2 million bid to repurpose the former Gala Bingo hall in Kettering High Street , change it into a community art , music and family hub , which will be transformative for Kettering town centre . expression of interest in the Department ' s cultural development fund must be submit by 15 March . be there no way that I , Beccy , Lindsey and the council can meet the relevant Minister before 15 March to see whether our bid might be appropriate ? I congratulate the two woman who be put forward such an exciting and interesting bid for that important building on Kettering High Street . in prepare to answer my hon . friend ' s question , I look at a potted history of Kettering ' s bingo hall and I appreciate the important role it have to play in regenerate the town . I speak to my noble Friend Lord Parkinson , as his ministerial brief cover this topic . he be happy to meet and look into the issue , but there be a question about the appropriate timing for that meeting . I note the recent debate about level up . I hope the bid will be successful , but I be afraid I can not influence that . leisure Centre closure : North Shropshire what assessment she have make of the impact of the closure of leisure centre on the community in North Shropshire constituency . leisure centre provide important community hub , connect individual within area in which they live and help to deliver important social and mental health outcome . in recognition of this and of public leisure , we have provide £ 60 million to swimming pool across England . whitchurch swimming pool in my constituency close in March 2020 . thankfully , there will be spade in the ground to reopen it in the come year , but the council announce last week that swimming pool and leisure centre be at the top of its list for significant budget cut in the come year . give the lack of public transport , I be concerned that young people will not be able to learn to swim and the wide community will lose access to the healthy lifestyle that leisure centre offer . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we ensure people in such a stretch out , rural area will be able to access leisure centre go forward ? we provide that funding for swimming pool precisely because we recognise the particular challenge they face give high energy bill . more broadly , we be provide over £ 300 million of support for facility up and down the country , include rural area . that will help we to get more people active , which be a key strand of our get active sport strategy . would my right hon . friend the Minister be willing to meet I to discuss the challenge face by leisure centre in local authority area face budgetary pressure , such as Shropshire ? he mention the swimming pool fund , but there might be other opportunity to sustain these vital resource for local people , include those in Shropshire . it sound as if I need to have a cross - shropshire meeting to discuss facility in that area . we have be clear about the funding provide for swimming pool . as part of our strategy and determination to get more people active , we will be do a piece of work to understand the location of black spot where we need to do more to provide more facility and what those facility should be to address local need . charity : cost of live what step her Department be take to help support charity with increase in the cost of living . the Government have invest million of pound to support charity across England with the cost of living pressure , include the £ 76 million community organisation cost of live fund , which have now award all funding to frontline service help vulnerable household . charity across my constituency in Blaydon do an amazing job in support people and community in what be really difficult time . today , a triple threat of rise cost , fall income and high demand have create what the National Council for Voluntary Organisations have call a cost of give crisis , with half of all charity say they be at full capacity and some have to turn people away . what further step can the Government take to ensure charity can continue with their vital work ? have be a head of fundraising for a charity , I recognise the position charity face when donation fall at the minute they need to help more people . that be why we have provide £ 100 million in funding and add another £ 76 million from dormant asset to help charity in that difficult situation . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on Monday it be a privilege to speak at the launch of the " State of the Sector " report , which find that charity be prop up Government service by £ 2 . 4 billion a year . will the Minister tell I why the Government expect the charitable sector to pick up the tab for Government responsibility in the first place ? clearly , the hon . Lady do not understand the charity sector if that be the position she be take . have work in it for 16 year , I will not be lecture on this . for example , I find that the hospice I work in be able to respond to the need of family in a much well and more holistic way than the state sector could . I be proud of the contribution that charity make to this country , and long may that continue . ai : Creative Industries what discussion she have have with representative of the creative industry on the impact of AI on that sector . I recognise the enormous potential of AI , but also its risk . I have have extensive engagement with the creative sector on these issue , include a series of roundtable talk on AI with , among other , medium , music and film representative . I be now work closely with the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology on a programme of further engagement with the sector . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer , but creator across the creative industry be concerned about AI developer , some of whom be worth as much as $ 100 billion , use their work without consent and without compensation . the inability of the Government ' s work group to agree a code of practice on AI and intellectual property fuel concern that the status quo be work only for the developer . this will be a grow problem . if a voluntary code be not go to be possible , how will the Government and her Department in particular ensure that creator will be pay fairly when their work be exploit ? I understand this issue and the concern that my hon . friend have mention . I know that , as Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , she understand and appreciate these matter . I want to assure she that the conclusion of the initial public offering working group be absolutely not the end of our work to find an appropriate regulatory solution for AI . we be absolutely committed to ensure that AI development support rather than undermine human creativity . for example , we will be focus on ensure great transparency from AI developer and that AI output be properly attribute . it be also right , as she highlight , that creator should be compensate for their work . good morning , Mr Speaker . AI firm be commit large - scale abuse of copyright material , use copyright image and piece of medium to train their AI tool without consent or compensation for copyright owner . the United Kingdom Government say that they want to reduce barrier to AI company , but that can only come at the expense of creator and artist . how do it make sense to sacrifice the 10 % of UK GDP that come from the creative sector in favour of less than a quarter of a per cent of gdp that AI produce ? I recognise the point that the hon . Member make in relation to the importance of protect creative right — the creative ingenuity that be such an important part of both our british culture and economic value . that be why I be hear from the sector , and why , in the Government ' s AI White Paper , we recognise the importance of ensure great transparency from AI developer . we be continue to work on that across Government . I call the shadow Minister . I be sorry , but the Government ' s answer to the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee be a load of hot air that could have be write by ChatGPT , except chatgpt would have do a well job of it . the truth of the matter be that the Government ' s flagship on AI as it relate to creative industry , which be mean to be protect the moral and economic right of artist , musician , and author , while at the same time recognise the important advance that AI can bring , have sink . last June , the Secretary of State say that if the code of practice be not achieve , legislation could be consider . so , in the word of Paul Simon , when be she go to make a new plan , Stan ? I would just point out that the Labour party have say absolutely nothing in relation to what it would do , so to stand up here and say that we have no plan be absolutely unacceptable . I can be absolutely clear that we do have a plan . we have work very hard with the sector . we have already set out in our White Paper the step that we be take on a very important aspect in relation to transparency . I will continue to work with the sector on all these area to ensure that this extremely complex matter come to a satisfactory conclusion for the creative industry . charity Lotteries : annual sale Limits for what reason charity lottery have annual sale limit . if she will take step to remove annual sale limit on charity lottery . the limit for society lottery allow they to raise funding for charity but to remain distinct from other form of gambling and from the national lottery . the limit be last increase recently , in 2020 , but I be aware that some operator want to see the limit raise or remove entirely . it be important that any decision that be make be base on strong evidence . as such , I have commission research in this area , which I hope we will review by the end of the year . the People ' s Postcode Lottery fund some brilliant organisation across Batley and Spen , include the fantastic Rainbow Baby Bank in Heckmondwike and the Game Changerz youth provision in Birstall . however , the current sale limit prevent the People ' s Postcode Lottery from give away even more grant to worthy community organisation across the country , in all our constituency . will the Minister therefore explain why casino and bookie , for example , do not face a sale limit but charity lottery , which be low risk and fund so many valuable local charity , face that barrier ? as I say at the reception that the People ' s Postcode Lottery hold the other night , it be my privilege to set up a society lottery when I work in a hospice . I recognise the value of such lottery to charity , and I be aware of the issue that the PPL have raise . I have work with the Gambling Commission to suggest way that it can grow under the current network , as it be the large brand in the sector , but as I say , I want to see more research . we need to understand what the potential harm be , and what the potential effect be on the national lottery . there be not enough datum at the moment . that be why I be commission independent research , so that we can make decision base on evidence . clearly , in my vast and far - flung constituency , it be difficult for charity to raise money , as member can imagine . to date , some £ 432 , 000 in community grant have be award to those charity . that be very welcome indeed . the Minister mention that consideration will be give to raise limit , or perhaps abolish they altogether . may I make an impassioned plea that the particular circumstance of remote part of the UK be consider when the decision be make ? I recognise the vast contribution that these lottery make to charity , particularly those that work in rural area . of course , we will make sure that we take evidence on all those issue . I be sure the hon . Gentleman would agree that we want to make sure that we be develop policy base on evidence , but that do not detract from our recognition of the enormous work that these lottery do , and we be incredibly grateful to they . Multi - sport Grassroots Facilities what recent progress she have make on implement her Department ' s multi - sport grassroot facility programme . the Government have commit over £ 325 million to multi - sport grassroots site across the whole of the UK . this be part of our mission to ensure that every community have the pitch and facility it need . so far , 2 , 300 site have be support . that include funding for grass pitch maintenance at Waveney football club in my hon . friend ' s constituency , create many more opportunity for people of all background to get active . the development of multi - sport grassroots facility be very often lead by one sport , which then face a variety of obstacle in get other sport authority to participate in a particular project . what step be my right hon . and learn Friend take to remove those barrier , and to promote collaboration between different sport authority so that much - need facility can be build ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question because it allow I to champion the fact that , as a requirement of the Government ' s investment in grassroots facility , 40 % of project need to clearly benefit a sport other than football , such as cricket , rugby , basketball or netball . in England , the Football Foundation and Sport England work closely with the national governing body of other sport to encourage the development of multi - sport project , to promote collaboration between club at a local level . over 1 million girl lose interest in sport when they become teenager , mainly due to lack of confidence and feeling judge , but we know how beneficial sport be for mental health , and there be many other benefit . how have the Department include gender in the implementation of the multi - sport grassroot facility programme ? I welcome that question . we have a national sport strategy to get 3 . 5 million people more active . that be focus on try to get those who be currently inactive into sport . as the hon . Lady rightly mention , woman and girl be less active in sport than boy and man , so we be focus in particular on that , with a national taskforce that bring together all relevant Departments and national govern body to ensure that we get more woman and girl involve in sport across the board . do the Secretary of State accept that grassroots sport can play a hugely important part in level up ? as part of Darwen ' s £ 120 million town deal , we have invest in our football club , our cricket club and our skate park , and we be about to open a brand - new five - a - side pitch . will she talk with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to see what part her Department can play in ensure that sport play its proper part in enrich the cultural life of people in area with levelling - up bid ? my right hon . friend be a huge champion for his area and for the north in general . he be absolutely right that sport , drama , creativity — all those thing — level up an area . I be very happy to talk to my right hon . friend in the Levelling up Department to consider how we can continue , across Government , to support the north . I have recently visit sport club in Honiton , include youth rugby , gymnastic and football . they be all seek support from the local authority , East Devon District Council , on the basis of its 2017 sport pitch strategy . the Government ' s multi - sport grassroot facility programme be very welcome , but do the Secretary of State consider it generous enough for youth sport , give that the co - benefit of sport for young people include a sense of camaraderie , good health and civic pride ? our strategy be help sport across the board , but I recognise in particular the importance of get young people involve in sport . we have invest around £ 1 billion in sport for young people , include £ 300 million for multi - sport pitch and £ 600 million in school so that more child get the required two hour of physical education . we be also invest across the board in youth service to get more young child active in constructive activity rather than in less appropriate one . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be proud of our Government ' s record in support the creative industry . figure publish last week , which I be sure Opposition Members will welcome , show that our powerhouse creative industry grow by 6 . 8 % in 2022 , generate an enormous £ 124 billion for UK plc , put we ahead of our ambition to grow those sector by an extra £ 50 billion by 2030 . of course , much of that depend on the amazing talent of Britain . many in the creative industry be benefit from the Government ' s target tax break , which be power those industry . do the Secretary of State agree that we need to support local initiative to encourage more girl to get into — or back into — and remain in sport ? I myself enjoy a long and prosperous rugby career playing in national league 1 . will she join I in congratulate Somerton rugby football club on its new girl rugby " skill and social " night ? More girl should have the opportunity to play sport that be traditionally the preserve of the boy . that be why we be encourage all school to offer all sport to all their pupil , whatever their gender . in addition , we be back woman ' s football , with £ 30 million for 30 pitch across the country to which girl will have priority access . it be absolutely right that we continue to encourage girl and woman to take up more sport . Gainsborough be once the capital of England under the incomparable Sweyn Forkbeard . it be an historic market town with the Old Hall at its heart . what plan do the Government have to preserve the character of historic market town such as Gainsborough ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise the beauty and heritage of Gainsborough . Heritage , of course , have a vital role to play in level up , and can act as a powerful catalyst to increase opportunity and prosperity . we recognise the opportunity that historic high street give we , and we have a £ 95 million high street heritage action zone programme that be drive the regeneration of 67 of our town and city . I believe that Gainsborough have previously be a recipient of heritage lottery programme , and we also have a scheme to help with historic church . I call the SNP spokesperson . coverage of yesterday ' s Commons chaos show how desperately we need good - quality journalism , so I be concern about BBC Scotland ' s request to Ofcom for a reduction in its broadcast news output , especially the loss of " the Nine " . BBC Scotland ' s tv news have something of a couthie image until " the Nine " come along , place scottish news in the context of UK and international news . it be a compromise offering for those who want a " Scottish Six " on BBC 1 . although " the Nine " create a pathway for young talent , I say at the time that its slot — tuck away on a channel that many struggle to find — could be its undoing , and now it have be pull . in an election year , we need more scrutiny of politician , not less , and the need for a properly resource " Scottish Six " remain . I hope Ofcom will say no to the proposal , and I know that the Cabinet Secretary for culture , Angus Robertson , oppose the reduction in news output . do the Minister ? I be aware that the BBC be look at change its programme mix in relation to news in Scotland . my understanding be that those change be cost - neutral , but I hear what the hon . Gentleman say and appreciate that he have concern about they . he will be aware that we do not hold direct power over the BBC ' s programming mix . I be sure that the director general have hear his concern . as I say , I think the BBC be still invest in quality news content in Scotland , but it may be that the mix be change , and the hon . Gentleman be clearly unhappy about that . Cheadle Town FC have be a member of the north west counties football league since 1983 . however , the oversubscribed division leave Cheadle Town and other south Manchester club at risk of be move laterally into a midland division , mean a significant increase in the club ' s travel cost and an impact on gate , break their identity as a northern club , and challenge their future viability . I have meet the Football Association and raise the club ' s concern . will my right hon . and learn Friend join I in urge the fa to review its process and listen to south Manchester club that want to keep their team northern ? my hon . friend be a massive champion for her area — she have previously raise this issue with I and with the sport Minister . as she rightly recognise , level five to 10 of the English football league system be administer by the fa , and decision regard which league a team play in at those level be for the fa in its role as govern body . I be sure the fa be listen to my hon . friend ' s concern and will have hear her plea this morning . I call the shadow Minister . this week in the House , I raise with the Economic Secretary to the Treasury the fact that serious delay in his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs issue A1 form mean that tour musician be wait month to be pay . A1 form ensure that musician do not have to pay additional tax when tour in the EU , but some musician be wait six to nine month , or even a year , for those form . one lead singer tell I that musician feel like " hostage " of HMRC incompetence , so what be the Secretary of State do alongside Treasury Ministers to sort out this mess , which be hit UK musician so hard ? I recognise the importance of tour to many of our fantastic industry . we have bilateral agreement with many other country to ensure that touring can take place , but I will continue to ensure that as a Government , we take every step across the board to make sure that our musician can tour appropriately . what assessment have the Minister make of the BBC ' s proposal to launch four new national music radio station and to relaunch an exist station , radio 5 Sports Extra ? to my mind , those proposal be a direct imitation of commercial broadcaster ' innovation , and the time and resource that the BBC be invest could be well spend in reverse the cut to BBC local radio — a source of distinctive public service content that be not available anywhere else on the same medium . my hon . friend be a stalwart of the radio scene . I would like to pay tribute to the 40 - year career of Steve Wright , another stalwart of BBC radio . I have speak to the director general about the launch of new radio service , and he be very aware of the strength of feeling in this House about the proposal for local radio . the mid - term review say that the BBC should engage much more closely with the market ahead of the launch of any new station , but Ofcom also have power to make a judgment on these matter before any new station be launch . now that the Government have move to repeal section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 , there remain no legislative measure to convince print medium to sign up to the state regulator , so how do the Government plan to finally give the state regulator the power to do its job , as call for by the National Union of Journalists ? I be very proud that we have a free press , and I think it be really important that we repeal section 40 to ensure there be not a chilling effect on our reporting . of course , since that be first propose , we have have great self - regulation , and I be sure the press will continue to ensure that they do their outstanding job in an appropriate fashion . can we recognise pickleball as a national sport , and will the sport Minister come to the Dunstable Hunters pickleball club , where he will see man , woman , grandparent and grandchild have a wonderful time ? how can I possibly resist such an invitation ? [ laughter . ] People be laugh , but this be become a more and more popular sport . for I , anything that get people active and enjoy sport can only be positive , so I be happy to come to see it in action . on the annual sale limit on the People ' s Postcode Lottery , the Minister say that he want to have some evidence on why an additional increase be necessary . since the advent of the pandemic , funding and fundraising have come under increase pressure , and that have lead to charity in my constituency closing . Saje Scotland , a domestic violence charity , be unable to access funding , so the evidence of the need be there for everyone to see . will he at least consider an additional uplift to the annual sale limit in the interim , so that charity can access meaningful funding and be not force to close down because of a lack thereof ? I think it be important to put it on record that almost every other society lottery be nowhere near those limit , but I do recognise that it may be get tight for some of the individual trust in the People ' s Postcode Lottery . we have be speak to the Gambling Commission to see what else it can do by use some of the other trust at its disposal to increase that funding , but I take on board the point the hon . Member make . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that individual sport club have a role to play in provide youth service ? in that respect , can I thank the Government for fund Lichfield sport club and Chasetown football club , which have both receive grant for the work they do — grant that reach up to £ 2 . 5 million ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he be a fabulous champion for Lichfield , and I be pleased that young people in Lichfield be get the benefit of Government funding . the Government ' s promise to protect music creator from the potential negative impact of artificial intelligence rely on a deal between tech company and the music industry . however , it emerge early this month that those discussion have collapse . will the Secretary of State admit that their plan have fail , and say what the Government be go to do about it to support the creative sector ? I wish Labour Members would actually read our White Paper on AI , because in that paper we recognise the importance of this issue and the importance of protect the creative industry . the White Paper set out what we be do about transparency , which be a key issue . we be of course continue to work with both side of the industry — the AI tech giant and the creator — to ensure we come to an appropriate resolution of this issue . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . will the Minister please update we on the independent regulator , and can he quite literally get the ball roll to get this Bill in front of the House ? my hon . friend have be a doughty campaigner when it come to the issue of football regulation , and it be good for I — she didn ' t say that . do you know , I be tell that the hon . Gentleman be a difficult man to ignore , but it be always worth try . try hard ! I be , don ' t you worry . order . maybe you can carry on that conversation afterwards . my hon . friend have do a lot of work in this area . we be absolutely committed to introduce the recommendation of the White Paper , which we have publish , and a Bill will be publish shortly . the chair of Girlguiding UK have recently inform I that with Government funding , Girlguiding can at least be sustain in three overseas military basis . will the Minister update I on his discussion to ensure that girl live on UK overseas military basis can continue to access Girlguiding ? I know the hon . Lady have do a lot of work in this area , and we have a good Westminster Hall debate on this . girlguiding be an independent organisation , and must make its own organisational and directional decision . the Department be work closely with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the Ministry of Defence , Girlguiding , and representative from overseas territory to see whether we can come up with a solution . what be the Government do to promote facility for padel tennis ? we work closely with national governing body such as the Lawn Tennis Association . it have do amazing work training 17 , 000 teacher across the country to teach tennis , padel tennis and so on . I go to see it myself recently at the national centre — [ interruption . ] I be not do very well here , I know that , but my hon . friend raise an important point , and I will continue to raise it with the national govern body in due course . there have be a number of late postponement of football match recently , cause massive inconvenience and put many fan , include Barnsley football club fan , seriously out of pocket . I have suggest to the English Football League that it adopt a postponement promise that would stop that from happen . will the Minister work with I on that ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , and I have hear that from fan in my constituency . it be a decision for football , but I will be happy to raise the issue with the various league . I recognise the impact that such postponement have on fan up and down the country . do my right hon . friend share my concern that the large number of inquiry that Ofcom have launch against GB News , for conduct itself in exactly the same fashion as other channel routinely do , be in danger of look biased and political , and that Ofcom be in danger of put itself in judicial review territory ? the Government and I be in favour of medium plurality , and it be important that different channel express different view across our vast political landscape . I be pleased that GB News have choose to be regulate by Ofcom , and I know that Ofcom carry out its job appropriately . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Broxbourne , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — protection for Members of Parliament what support and protection be available for member who have experience threat and other form of intimidation . with your indulgence , Mr Speaker , I will read quite a long answer into the record . it be essential that member and their staff can perform their parliamentary duty safely and securely , both on and off the estate . the Commission consider that to be of the high importance . member should report immediate threat to the police on 999 . member can report any other threat , whether online , on the street or in their constituency , to the parliamentary liaison and investigation team of police officer base on the estate . the House administration recognise that threat and intimidation can impact mp ' emotional health and wellbeing . the parliamentary health and wellbeing service offer direct psychological support for member , such as counselling and a confidential helpline , and assistance to family member who live with a Member of Parliament . occupational health expert in the team be always on hand to support member who might be subject to threat . while we do not discuss security measure on the Floor of the House , I confirm that the Parliamentary Security Department support Members with a range of other process , which be keep under continuous review . I shall briefly cover those , Mr Speaker , and then come to a close . it provide protection at member ’ home and constituency office , and can provide security operative for constituency surgery and member ' other parliamentary duty off the estate . it give Members tailor advice for their individual circumstance . that include security and situational awareness training , which be available to all mp , their family , and staff . member can access hand - on cyber - security advice for their personal mobile phone . a team monitor social medium and other open - source site for threat to Parliament or member . as a member of the consultative panel on parliamentary security , this cause be close to my heart and I will continue to champion it as a member of the House of Commons Commission . some member of the House will know that I have a death threat . a gentleman be arrest and go into a mental institution . when he be release , the House authority and the Met police meet I and say , " this gentleman be now out and he know where you live . " I listen very intently to what the hon . Gentleman say , but that be the last I hear . I be a person who watch where he walk and do not stand by the side of the platform on the tube . I alter my way of come into the House . it be very stressful . I have to say that in all that have be say by the hon . Gentleman — I know that he believe it and be passionate about it — there do not feel like there be very much for those on the receiving end . I thank the hon . gentleman for give I advance notice of his question . I be so sorry that he have experience this after give more than 40 year of service to this Parliament and this country . I will endeavour to meet he next week with security official to go through his concern one by one . I hope to see he at a meeting next week if he be free . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — theft : security of Church Buildings whether the commissioner have issue recent guidance to church parish on secure building to prevent theft . whether the Commissioners have issue recent guidance to church parish on secure building to help prevent theft . before I reply to my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham , may I pass on my condolence , and I be sure those of the whole House , to the family and friend of Alan Wilson , the Bishop of Buckingham , who die suddenly last Saturday ? there be comprehensive advice to all parish on the Church of England website about how to keep building secure , which we regularly update . all building use for religious worship be also eligible for the Home Office ' s hate crime protection scheme . I join my hon . friend in pass on my condolence to the family of the late Bishop of Buckingham . vicar tell I that theft from church be a continue problem in my constituency and that the insurance sector be now demand that church must be lock unless someone from the church be present inside . that clearly create a big challenge for those want a moment of quiet prayer or reflection or to just enjoy the beauty of our historic church . can my hon . friend tell I what the Church Commissioners be do with the insurance sector to ensure that our church can remain , while secure , open for quiet prayer and reflection ? I be sorry to learn of the experience in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I can tell he that he be completely right about the importance of keep church open for those who want to come . the good news be that keep church open increase footfall , and that deter criminal . lock up church be a poor deterrent to thief . I can also tell he that funding for roof alarm be provide by the diocese of Oxford back in 2019 , when there be a spate of theft from church roof in his area . I encourage church in his constituency to contact the diocese again to see whether that might be make available . I thank my hon . friend for his answer thus far . he will recall that I have previously ask at Church Commissioners question about theft from church in my constituency and neighbouring constituency , St John ' s and St Andrew ' s . at St Andrew ' s , the theft take place during the mass , which be outrageous , to put it mildly . in my view , the Church Commissioners be not listen to the police ' s advice and support . what need to happen be for church to get at least the same support and assistance from the police as other place of worship . will he use his good office to go back to the Church of England and ensure dialogue between the police and the Church to protect our church as place of worship ? I be sorry to learn of my hon . friend ' s concern . I will certainly feed that straight back to the hierarchy of the church and ensure that those meeting happen . however , I be pleased to tell he that follow his question to I on this issue last month , the police have arrest a suspect for a series of church burglary in Barnet , Brent and Harrow , and he be remand in custody . I have be tell that the Metropolitan police be in close contact with the diocese of London and local church , but there clearly need to be more dialogue . I will ensure that that happen . I recently have the pleasure of visit the Holy Trinity church at Dunkeswell , which sit on the site of the Cistercian Dunkeswell abbey in my constituency . visit it be a move , spiritual experience . give that some site such as that be in rural , remote area where there will simply never be the footfall that the hon . member describe , can he assure we that we can continue to keep they open in spite of any threat of theft ? I completely understand the hon . Gentleman ' s point . like he , I be a lover of our rural church . I suggest that he point the churchwarden and the priest to the comprehensive advice on the Church of England website and perhaps have further conversation with the diocese and local police . if there be still issue , I ask he to come back to I about that . I thank the Second Church Estates Commissioner for that answer . we live in an age where modern technology be available as a method of address these issue but be incredibly expensive . what fund be issue to we in Northern Ireland through Barnett consequential to ensure that church can adequately secure building with security camera and CCTV ? if there be currently no funding , could that be consider when we take into account the rural and isolated status of so many church building ? I be sorry to tell the hon . Gentleman that , as far as I be aware , this area be not cover by Barnett consequential . again , I direct he to the advice on the Church of England website , which can be see by church in Northern Ireland . if there be particular issue , I be happy to have a quiet conversation with he in the Tea Room to see how we can share good practice to try to help his church . asylum seeker if the Church will have discussion with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the Church ' s guidance for clergy on support asylum seeker . whether the Church provide training for clergy on support asylum seeker wish to convert to Christianity . what guidance the Church issue for clergy on support asylum seeker wish to convert to Christianity . both archbishop have offer to meet the Home Secretary , and the Church have provide advice and guidance for clergy to consider when deal with request for baptism from asylum seeker . the guidance refer to the need for discernment and recognise that there may be mixed motive on the part of asylum seeker request baptism . I welcome that meeting . those who be genuinely seek to convert to Christianity should of course be allow to do so . but be my hon . friend aware that there be grow concern in this country that the Church of England — naively at good , and deliberately at bad — be be see to aid and abet asylum seeker in get around the law of this country and remain in the United Kingdom ? may I urge the Church of England to update its guidance entitle " support Asylum Seekers — Guidance for Church of England Clergy " as soon as possible to ensure that it be in alignment with new legislation pass in this House ? that guidance be be update , so I can reassure my hon . friend on that point . he be right that clergy will always rightly tell everyone they come across about the love of Jesus , but clergy do not determine asylum claim . of course , priest be expect to uphold the law and make truthful representation of character . I hope that reassure he . I also note that in the recent Times investigation of 28 case hear by the upper tribunal where a claimant cite conversion to Christianity as a reason to be grant asylum , only seven be approve , 13 be dismiss , and new hearing be order in eight other case . my hon . friend will have hear the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) at Prime Minister ' s question . the problem be , this bring the Church of England into disrepute . it imply that some vicar be naive , foolish and innocent . it be important for the credibility of the Church of England that training be more robust and that well - mean folk do not endanger our society . I hear very clearly what my hon . Friend say . I know that he , like I , take seriously the reputation of the Church of England . he care a great deal about it , and I be grateful to he for that . I repeat the answer I give my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Mr Hollobone ) : priest be require to use discernment , to recognise that there might be mixed motive , and always to put forward truthful representation of character . I hear the word of my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) as well . when there be plenty wrong and plenty to complain about , it be not always the case that we should blame the establish Church , be it ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend . any institution run by human will never be perfect , but he be right that the Church of England be unfairly accuse of be involve in some case , when it have no involvement at all . clergy : same - sex relationship what recent progress have be make on implement the decision take by the General Synod in February 2023 relate to clergy in same - sex relationship . in February 2023 , the General Synod pass a motion to welcome the decision by the House of Bishops to replace a document call " issue in Human Sexuality " . the House of Bishops have publish pastoral guidance that partially replace that document . it be work on further pastoral guidance that would allow the document to be replace entirely . paper go to tomorrow ' s General Synod once again recommend backtracking on the agreement make , not just in February but in the autumn General Synod , regard same - sex blessing and the rule govern priest in same - sex relationship . that be totally unacceptable . yesterday ' s report by Professor Alexis Jay on safeguard in the Church of England be excoriate . it point to serial failure , and recommend set up a completely independent body , the Church be strip of its responsibility , and those be hand to an independent regulator . it pain I to say this , but do the hon . Gentleman agree that deal with both those very important historical challenge for the Church appear to be beyond the capacity and will of its current leadership , and that perhaps our establish Church might benefit from a fresh start at the top ? the right hon . Gentleman take these issue very seriously and have a long involvement with the Church of England . start with the second issue , the Church commission Professor Jay ' s report . the Church get the seriousness of these issue , and it will consider very seriously how to respond . the archbishop have describe her report as a " vital next step " . we be not in denial , and we will put thing right . the right hon . Gentleman also know very well how the General Synod of the Church of England work ; it be a sovereign body . it meet again this weekend . reconcile different viewpoint so that we can walk together be not easy , but we be committed to that . I know that his word will have be hear and note by member of the General Synod in advance of its debate . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Broxbourne , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — member ' productivity : Digital Tools if the Commission will take step to increase the use of digital tool in parliamentary service to support the productivity of Members . the Parliamentary Digital Service support the Commission by deliver technology for Members , and tool be under constant development . a range of productivity tool be already available to Members and their staff from Microsoft via the Parliamentary Digital Service . they include Microsoft Forms , which help with task such as collate constituent ' information . Microsoft Planner can track workstream in an MP ' s office and be use by some office to induct new staff . " booking with I " can arrange one - to - one time with external guest , such constituent . pds independently investigate and work with Parliament ' s supplier to explore new technology that could benefit mp in their work . the team welcome volunteer from the Member community to pilot such service ahead of full roll - out . as the Chair of the Administration Committee , I would be happy to arrange for the hon . Lady to meet any relevant official . like most member , I receive hundred of invitation every week , and much more spam . it take a member of my team hour — sometimes day — to go through they all . that be time that could be much well spend support constituent , particularly in a cost of living crisis . there be digital tool that can help with that ; none that the hon . Gentleman mention will do so . Microsoft recently demo its Copilot tool , which use artificial intelligence . other tool be available . while there may be issue of privacy , security and bias with such tool , as with much AI , can he confirm that the Commission be look specifically at AI tool to help we in our work for our constituent ? I can . the hon . Lady be absolutely right : there be security issue that need to be look at closely , but I have an answer , specially prepared . copilot be Microsoft ' s version of ChatGPT , a generative artificial intelligence service . now , this be the relevant bit : pds have arrange a series of internal workshop with Parliament ' s Microsoft partner to allow pds staff to explore how this technology could be use in the parliamentary network . the outcome of those workshop will feed into Parliament ' s overall AI strategy — I be nearly there , Mr Speaker . I speak as the proud owner of a Nokia . the recent and rapid development in artificial intelligence , especially generative AI , present exciting opportunity . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — World Watch List what step the Church be take to support anglican church in country list in the World Watch List 2024 . through the sister church of our communion and our link missionary society , the Church of England continue to provide both prayerful support and practical assistance to all part of the anglican communion where freedom of religion or belief be threaten or impair . the Church work with our government , other government around the world , and multilateral body such as the United Nations to advocate forcefully for freedom of religion or belief . follow the implementation of much of the groundbreaking Truro review , the UK be now see as a global leader on religious freedom . however , sadly , persecution be exponentially increase across the world , so we need to embed that work . do my hon . friend agree that , like government , religious leader need to commit to strategic thinking , structural change and the provision of additional resource if together we be to effectively tackle this global scourge ? indeed I do . on embed that work , it be good news that my hon . friend ' s International Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill have a successful second reading in this House on 26 January , and that it go to Committee in April . I be glad that the Bill be strongly support by the Foreign Secretary , and that the Bishop of Winchester have offer to take it forward in the other place ; of course , he be the person who write the original report . however , my hon . friend ' s challenge be fair . as our government step up on this global challenge , the Church of England and the anglican communion need to as well . I will pass her remark back to Lambeth Palace . that complete the question , but I would like to answer Sir Charles . the security of all member really matter . it be take very seriously in this House . work be ongoing , and I be have serious conversation about what we do go forward . I can tell you that we have some of the good people work on it , and I would like to thank they for what they do . Post Office Horizon Scandal ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if she will make a statement on financial redress for sub - postmaster and outstanding issue relate to the Post Office Horizon scandal . as a Back Bencher , I first speak on the matter of compensation for victim in March 2020 , which be obviously long after the right hon . Gentleman first campaign for it . I pay tribute to his campaigning on this subject , which remain undiminished . my appetite for compensation for postmaster be equally undiminishe , although I accept the need to increase the pace of delivery . as of this month , £ 160 million have be pay in financial redress to more than 2 , 700 victim affect by the Horizon scandal . More than 78 % of eligible full claim receive have be settle as follow : 102 conviction have be overturn , and 42 full claim have be submit , of which 32 have be settle ; 2 , 793 application to the Horizon shortfall scheme have be receive , and 2 , 197 have be settle ; 58 full claim have be submit to the group litigation order scheme , and 41 have be settle . our top priority remain ensure that victim can access swift and fair compensation . we have introduce optional fix - sum award of £ 600 , 000 for victim with overturn conviction and of £ 75 , 000 for group litigation order member as a swift mean of settlement , and 100 % of original applicant to the Horizon shortfall scheme have receive offer of compensation . today we be discuss what other measure can be take to speed up compensation with the Horizon compensation advisory board , on which the right hon . Gentleman sit . since the Prime Minister ' s announcement on 10 January , official in the Department for Business and Trade and the Ministry of Justice have be work at pace to progress legislation for overturn conviction relate to the Post Office ' s prosecutorial behaviour and Horizon evidence . I will provide a further update to the House very soon . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question . I draw the attention of the House to my interest as a member of the Horizon compensation advisory board . I like the Minister . he campaign on this issue before he be a Minister , and he have be a very good Minister , but a lot of that good work be undo on Monday by the performance of the Secretary of State for Business and Trade . I be disappointed that he have not take the opportunity today to talk about the overturned conviction . I understand that later today , at 12 o ' clock , there will be a write ministerial statement on the subject . I do not think that be the way to do it , as the House need an opportunity to discuss the overturned conviction . I will ask the Minister a few question . it be quite clear now that Nick Read , the Post Office chief executive , write to the Lord Chancellor basically oppose the overturning of all conviction , say that up to 300 people be " guilty " . it be not yet clear who instruct he to do that . on Monday , the Secretary of State say it be do off his own bat . I would like to hear what the Minister have to say on that . if there be to be overturn conviction , they can not just be about Horizon ; they should also be about Capture . evidence that I have put to the public inquiry and send to the Minister yesterday clearly indicate that the scandal predate Horizon . those affect need to be include in both the compensation scheme and among those with overturn conviction . the board be meet this afternoon , and we have make recommendation to the Minister on how to simplify and speed up the compensation scheme . will he give an assurance to the House that once the recommendation be agree , we can announce they quite quickly , primarily to restore to the sub - postmaster some faith , which be wreck by the performance of the Secretary of State on Monday ? if the Minister ' s write ministerial statement at 12 o ' clock be about overturn conviction , will he give a commitment to come back to the House on Monday to give an oral statement , so that the House can interrogate he and discuss that issue ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . the overturned conviction be a key priority for I and my Department . I be always keen to update the House whenever I can . there always have to be a sequence to ensure that we follow proper process . what we be do potentially affect the devolved administration , so it be really important that we engage with they properly . that be one of the reason why we need to make the write statement later today . I have never be unwilling to come before the House and report on what we be do . I will , of course , continue to do that . on the letter from the chief executive to the Justice Secretary , I be aware of the allegation by Mr Staunton . they be very serious allegation that should not be make lightly or be base on a vague recollection . if the right hon . Gentleman look at the letter from the former permanent secretary , it be clear that she believe the allegation be incorrect , and that there be never any conversation along the line refer to by Mr Staunton . I think it be pretty clear that those allegation be false . the right hon . Gentleman have regularly bring up Capture . we be keen to continue to engage with he on that to ensure that those affect be include in any compensation where detriment have occur . I note his point about an oral statement . as I say , I be always keen to give such statement whenever possible , and to be interrogate on our plan . I do not think he will be disappoint by what we announce later today . now that the then permanent secretary have outline that she do not implicitly or explicitly tell the then chairman of the Post Office to slow down compensation , I hope we can spend time less time talk about someone who have lose his job and more time talk about postmaster who have lose everything . will the Minister , who be do great work in sort this out , recommit to August as his target date for get compensation — life - change compensation — out of the door as soon as possible ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on this matter ; as my predecessor , he do a tremendous job . the most concern allegation we hear over the weekend be about the delay in the payment of compensation . in her letter , which be publicly available , the permanent secretary write : " it be not true that I make any instruction , either explicitly or implicitly . in fact , no mention of delay compensation appear in either note . " so I agree with my hon . friend that we should move on from that and focus on what really matter , which be get what he rightly describe as life - change compensation to postmaster as quickly as possible . that be his , and will remain our , no . 1 priority . I call the shadow Minister . let I first pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for secure the urgent question , and indeed for all the work he have do over many year , along with other member , in try to secure justice for sub - postmaster . the Post Office Horizon scandal be one of the most insidious injustice in our country ' s history . it have rob innocent people of their livelihood , their liberty and , all too sadly , their life . at least 60 sub - postmaster have die without see justice or receive compensation , and at least four have take their own life . More than 20 year on , the victim and their family be still suffer from the consequence and the trauma of all that they have be put through . they have be trap in a nightmare for too long . we all want to see the exoneration of all who remain convict , and the delivery of rightful compensation to all affected sub - postmaster , as quickly as possible . labour want to see a swift and comprehensive solution to this insidious injustice , and we be willing to work with the Government to ensure that happen . will the Minister please provide an update on the timeline to which he be work to amend the seismic damage that this scandal have cause , and will he please give an assurance that he be act with the appropriate speed that be require for necessary legislation to go through ? victim have already wait too long for justice , and we must act now , with the speed and urgency that this awful scandal require . I thank the hon . gentleman for the way in which he have approach this matter . there be nothing in his remark that I disagree with . as I say early , 78 % of claimant have receive full and final compensation , but we fully share his wish , and that of his party , for a swift resolution and a swift end to this , and we have engage significantly and extensively with his colleague on the Front Bench . as for how we overturn conviction , the measure that we be take be clearly unprecedented , but this be an unprecedented situation . the hon . Gentleman ask about the timeline . we have always say that it be week , but it be few week now than it be . I do not think he will be disappoint — I say this to the right hon . member for North Durham as well — by what we will say , hopefully , later today , but this have take too long . we be work daily to resolve these issue , and the overturning of conviction , the legislation and the compensation can not come too quickly . my hon . friend have do a great job , but I be conscious that there be still many people wait to settle . much of that be due to the fact that the Post Office be not release information that have be request by my constituent or , indeed , their solicitor . I hope that my hon . friend can put across to the chief executive of the Post Office how critical it be to regain trust by release that information , because I fear that other sub - postmaster , or people who might otherwise have be interested in deal with the Post Office , will start either to move away or not to take up those business opportunity , which would also damage community — and that be already happen in my constituency . I thank my right hon . friend for her question and for make that point ; she be absolutely right . disclosure both to the inquiry and on individual case , which be require to be able to compile claim , have be too slow . if Post Office Ltd and its management team be go to rebuild trust with claimant and the wide public , it be absolutely incumbent on they that this be do properly and that the governance around it be do properly . that be part of the reason why the Secretary of State act as decisively as she do , but I absolutely concur with my right hon . friend . alongside she , I urge Post Office Ltd to deliver disclosure more quickly . I call the SNP spokesperson . document publish this week by the BBC reveal that the swift review , date February 2016 , note that Post Office Ltd " have always know " about the balance transaction capability that allow transaction to be addende remotely , which be what happen . the lawyer for Post Office Ltd do nothing about that , and many people still do not trust it . a letter have be circulate , and the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) deserve all the praise we can give he today . I have a copy of his memo , which say that anyone can write to he on any issue and get advice on how to pursue claim . the Minister have give we a list of percentage and so on , but it be still not fast enough . it be still not good enough , and one of the reason be that Post Office Ltd be still not trust ; people want nothing to do with it . I can not fix that , but I do not think that the spat between the Secretary of State and Henry Staunton this week do anything to increase sub - postmaster ' confidence , and we really need to get this sorted . yes , the Horizon shortfall scheme have be well manage in some regard , and claim be go through and be pay , but how much be be pay ? so many sub - postmaster be get derisory offer — not just people in the GLO scheme , but normal , everyday sub - postmaster who have be put in money for year . we need to get this sorted . I appeal to all sub - postmaster affect to put in a claim . I entirely agree with the hon . Lady on that point and on a number of other point she raise , and I thank she again for the work she have do in this area for many year . I , too , be concerned about some of the information that come to light this week , and the public inquiry be there to examine any allegation relate to who know what and when . it would be wrong of we to duplicate the inquiry ' s effort , because it be a public inquiry that have the power to summon witness to give evidence and to carry out other form of evidence gathering , which be the right way to do this . I agree with the hon . Lady that compensation can not come fast enough and that Post Office Ltd have to rebuild trust not just with the wide public ; key to this be the postmaster . yes , of course we want to make sure that people get fair compensation . may I point gently to the performance so far of the group litigation order scheme ? fifty - eight full claim have be receive , 48 offer have be make and 41 have be accept without go to the next level , which be the independent panel . that tend to indicate that those offer be fair , because people have recourse to the appeal process . I be aware of one or two high - profile case where people say they have not be offer a fair amount . I can not talk about individual case , but we urge any of those individual to go to the next stage of the process , which be the independent panel . the whole scheme be oversee by Sir Ross Cranston , who have a very good reputation both in this House and far afield . we absolutely believe that the process will offer fair compensation , but we urge people to return to the table and ensure that their claim be properly consider by all mean available . I thank my hon . friend for all the work he have do on this issue — not only on the Front Bench , but on the Back Benches . no amount of compensation can compensate the victim of this complete scandal . however , it do help , and speed up the process be obviously important . will he , during the passage of the legislation that the Government have promise to introduce , ensure that innocent victim be not only compensate , but completely exonerate ? in their community , they have suffer the stigma attach to all this , and they need to have their name clear and their reputation restore . I thank my hon . friend for his regular contribution on this subject , which he frequently raise prior to the ITV series . I appreciate his work . my hon . friend be right to say that no amount of compensation can make up for what happen to many people ' s life . we want all the innocent people to be exonerate . we know there be nervousness , with some victim not trust the process — they have simply have enough . we meet Howe & Co . , one of the solicitor , to talk about this issue yesterday , and its contention be that around 40 % of the people who receive a letter say , " we will not oppose an appeal , " still will not come forward . we need a process that do not require people to come forward if we be to have a mass exoneration of those affect by this horrendous scandal . we hope to announce that later today . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I associate myself with the word of praise for the Minister ' s speed and attention on this issue . I think a legally bind instruction for the Post Office and the Department to deliver at speed be a necessity in the new Bill . the Minister have tell we today that about £ 160 million have be pay in compensation , but there be provision for about £ 1 . 2 billion , which mean that only 13 % of the money have be pay out . he update the House on the number of claimant , and there be 555 people in the GLO group and 700 who be convict . as the Minister tell we , only 73 people have have their final compensation fully pay , which be only 6 % of the two group . the confusion at the beginning of the week about who say what to whom show there be confusion about the instruction to deliver at speed . when the Bill come before we , will the Minister reflect on the necessity for a legally bind deadline under which the Post Office must make information available in 20 to 30 day and an offer must be make to settle within 20 to 30 day , with a legally bind deadline for final resolution ? otherwise , frankly , I worry that the ambiguity will still cause delay . he know as well as I do that justice delay be justice deny . I thank the right hon . gentleman for pay regular attention to this issue . I know that the Committee have a session next week and will be ask some of those question . we be keen to get compensation to victim as soon as possible . we be somewhat at the mercy of claim , and we can not offer compensation if claim do not come in . like other , I be very keen for people to come forward to submit a claim . one of the reason why we put forward the fix - sum award of £ 600 , 000 for overturned conviction and £ 75 , 000 for member of the GLO scheme be to try to accelerate the payment of compensation , which contradict the claim that people be try to slow thing down . I be meet the Horizon compensation advisory board this afternoon to look at its recommendation for accelerate compensation . we have take nothing off the table , and I remind the right hon . Gentleman that the House recently vote to extend the compensation deadline from 4 August , on the recommendation of Sir Wyn Williams , because we do not want people to be time out of compensation . the maximum budget for compensation have , thus far , be set at £ 1 billion . one of the issue we be try to resolve urgently be the fact that people be reluctant to come forward to have their conviction overturn by the Court of Appeal , which be one of the reason why we have not compensate enough people with conviction . we can not compensate they until we overturn their conviction , which be exactly why we have propose the legislation . once we have do that , the door will be open for compensation to flow freely . that be exactly what the right hon . Gentleman and I want to see . there have never be any confusion in our mind about the need to deliver this quickly . I have focus on that every single day , both since I have be in office and before . I have never be resist by anyone in my Department or in other part of Government . there may be confusion , but I promise that there have be no confusion in Government . I add my thank to the Minister for his work in help I to advise my constituent who have come forward ask many question about the situation that they find themselves in . I be very pleased that the Government be work to compensate postmaster who be convict in a court of law , but there be many individual who work for the Post Office and face disciplinary proceeding who do not end up in court . however , their professional reputation be trash , they have no ability to find job when they be dismiss , and they be significantly out of pocket . the Post Office must know whom it discipline ; it must have record through the disciplinary procedure . will the Minister outline what step the Post Office have take to contact those individual so that they can get the compensation that they rightly deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for so ably represent his constituent who have fall victim to this scandal . People do not need to have go before a court of law to be compensate . a postmaster with a contract with the Post Office can access either the Horizon shortfall scheme or the GLO . a prosecution of any form be not require to be able to claim through those scheme . I think he raise a point about somebody who work for a postmaster or for the Post Office . that be separate and I be very happy to talk to he about that point , which have be raise by a number of member . the Post Office would not necessarily know whether a postmaster who be work independently and run an independent business have discipline their member of staff , so it might not be as straightforward as he set out . nevertheless , I be happy to engage with he on that . the problem for many sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress be the quantification of what they be due to be repay under the shortfall scheme , because payment be make out of their own pocket on several occasion over a long period . it be difficult in those circumstance for the claimant to know that they have be properly compensate , because the Post Office can not tell they how much it should be repay . to take a step back , be it not apparent that we can not continue to leave the Post Office to mark its own homework and that the independent element of scrutiny need to be strengthen ? somebody independent of Government and the Post Office must be put in charge of not just sort this out , but do so at speed . I agree with the right hon . member ' s point , and he be right that quantification be very difficult . these situation be complex . it be about not just financial loss , but the personal impact , include the impact on mental health , physical health , reputation — all those thing . in those situation , we should give the claimant the benefit of the doubt where this can not be evidence . in many case , the record be no long available . we have independent people in all part of the process . member of the Horizon shortfall scheme include eminent kc , such as Lord Garnier from the other place . we have Sir Ross Cranston oversee the GLO scheme , and in the overturn conviction scheme , we have Sir Gary Hickinbottom — they be eminent retired High Court judge . I have great faith in their hold our foot to the fire and get the right quantum of compensation to the right people at the right time . indeed , the Horizon compensation advisory board , with the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and Lord Arbuthnot , be also hold our foot to the fire , make sure that we do the right thing and deliver the right amount of compensation . I will meet it again later today . I know that the Minister mean well and that he also understand that my affected constituent have have enough of be tell that the Government be work hard to get they the justice they deserve and promise of swift compensation . one of my constituent ' s claim be submit in October . she hear the Minister say in January that all claim would have offer within 40 day , but she still have not have an offer . she be right to conclude that the allegation of delay payment to benefit the Treasury be true , be she not ? I be sorry that the hon . Member have take that tone , but that be not true . as I set out , I think Henry Staunton have get this completely wrong . it be not the case , and there have never be any situation while I have be in this role — my predecessor have say the same — where we have try to delay compensation . if the hon . Member want to write to I , I be very happy to look at an individual case . our commitment on the GLO scheme be that once we have receive a full claim , we will respond to 90 % of case within 40 day . some case be more complex , but I be very happy to look at her specific case , as I have for other member when people have contact we directly . I be very keen to make sure that we get a resolution to her constituent ' s case as quickly as possible . I congratulate the Minister on his tenacity in relation to this issue . when do he expect the inquiry to be complete ? it seem that Fujitsu be hide behind that inquiry and be unwilling to commit itself to compensate the taxpayer for the compensation the taxpayer will be pay . I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . the inquiry be due to conclude by the end of this year and to report some time — early , I hope — next year . at that point , we will know more about Fujitsu ' s exact role and the amount of the final compensation bill . I welcome the fact that at the Select Committee Fujitsu acknowledge its moral obligation to the victim and the taxpayer in contribute to the compensation bill , and we will hold it to its promise in that regard . the Minister be a perceptive man : he must see the problem of his reassure the House from the Dispatch Box on a Thursday , after the Secretary of State ' s reassurance at the Dispatch Box on a Monday . the House and the country ' s patience be wear thin . many of the sub - postmaster , who be the victim in all this , include my constituent , have have their life blight and scar for well over a decade . the delay to the compensation scheme be only exacerbate the pain and the problem . the public can see a pattern , whether it be the Horizon compensation scheme , the infected blood compensation scheme or the vaccine harm compensation , and it do not reflect well on the Government . I will be the first to admit that we want to deliver compensation more quickly than have happen in the past . as I say , 74 % of claimant have receive full and final compensation . it be absolutely right that the remain 26 % — as well as any more who come forward , and I be pleased that more be come forward — receive that compensation too . it have never be a case of our try to delay compensation . I do not believe there be a pattern here . these issue be complex but we be do much to accelerate the process . we do much to accelerate compensation payment prior to the ITV series , which be critical . the £ 600 , 000 fix - sum award , which have be very effective in deliver rapid compensation , be bring in last October . we be look at a blanket overturn in conviction some month before that series . we be try to deliver the scheme at pace . it be not always straightforward to do that , but the hon . Gentleman have my commitment that we will do everything we can to deliver that compensation as quickly as possible . the Post Office Horizon scandal be now commonly call one of the great miscarriage of justice in british history — so many life devastate , some lose . an inevitable consequence of that be to undermine public confidence in the Post Office , in technology , as misrepresent by the Post Office and Fujitsu , and in the Minister ' s Department , particularly follow the performance — that be the right word for it — of the Secretary of State on Monday . what be he do to restore public confidence in the Post Office , in technology and in his Department ? do he recognise that swift payment of compensation be an important part of that ? yes , it be the most important part of that . it be right that the Secretary of State respond to the serious and false allegation in the newspaper over the weekend . I hasten to add that those allegation be not about the Secretary of State but about a senior civil servant , who have be very clear that the allegation be false . the no . 1 way we can give confidence to those who might be submit a claim , or have do so , be the fact that the process do work for the vast majority of claimant . of course , we want to improve the process but we also want to reassure claimant that there be independence run through every single part of they . the no . 1 message we can give from the House be that if people come forward , they will be treat fairly and receive compensation as quickly as possible . how can the public have trust in the Government to stand up for whistleblower when , by her own account , the Secretary of State attempt to cover up the departure of Henry Staunton ? I do not think that be an accurate portrayal of event at all . I be very happy to talk to the hon . member about that particular issue . it be decide that Henry Staunton be no long the right person to lead the Post Office . he then decide to make some allegation about what happen during his tenure , which have prove , in my view , to be completely false . I do not believe that Mr Staunton be a whistleblower . he speak out , but I think the allegation he make have be clearly demonstrate to be not accurate . what the hon . Gentleman have just say be not an accurate portrayal of event . the no . 1 thing we should all focus on now be ensure that people be properly compensate , that the inquiry be allow to do its work and identify those responsible , and that those responsible — be they individual or corporate — be hold to account . I have a constituent who be part of the group litigation order . they be not convict , because the process be pause in 2015 , but they have pretty much lose everything , have borrow substantial amount of money to make up the shortfall over a long period of time . they have now be tell that the £ 75 , 000 up - front payment would be net of any interim payment that they have receive . they be not confident to go forward with the full assessment , because of some of the highly publicise very low — derisory — compensation that have be offer . can the Minister offer my constituent any reassurance that it be worthwhile pursue that extensive and independently assess claim ? my assessment be that they have lose significantly more than £ 75 , 000 . if that be the case , they should definitely submit a claim . I be very happy to meet the hon . Lady to talk about her particular constituent . I be aware that some individual have come forward and say that they receive derisory offer . we urge they to engage with the rest of the process , which have not yet happen . there be an independent panel for the GLO scheme . again , I would direct she to the actual performance of the GLO compensation scheme so far : 58 full claim receive ; 48 offer make ; and 41 offer accept without reference to the independent panel , which would tend to indicate that the offer be make be fair . however , I do understand that the people affect by this will not be satisfied by my assurance until they have go through the process . I urge she to tell her constituent to do exactly that . may I also add my thank to the Minister for his very dedicated response to all the question that we have ask and for his energy in try to make this scheme a success for those who have be victimise ? on those who have have to take out loan to repay money that they never owe anyway , will calculation be carry out to allow repayment of not simply substantive amount but money borrow from family , friend or banking institution , and the interest that they have have to pay they ? I thank the hon . member for all the work that he have do in this area . I think he have speak in every single debate that I have respond to in the House on this particular matter . [ laughter . ] and every single debate across this House as well . that be also the case when we be work together , fight for justice for banking victim . I pay tribute to all the work that he have do in this House in all these different area . on the hon . member ' s question , the key principle be that somebody be return to the position that they would have be in financially prior to the detriment taking place . that could take into account , for example , consequential loss , pecuniary loss — financial loss — as well as non - pecuniary loss , which be other impact such as those on reputation or on health . the short answer to the hon . member ' s question be , yes , absolutely . that complete the urgent question . we now move to the next one . Inter Faith Network Closure ( Urgent Question ) : will the Minister make a statement about the closure that have be announce today of the Inter Faith Network ? may I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise the issue of the Inter Faith Network ? I be grateful for all his work as chair of the all - party group on faith and society and as a long - stand advocate for dialogue across faith . as the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) say during an Adjournment debate in January , we know full well the role that faith community play in our society . we be extremely supportive of effort by faith group and other to bring together people of different faith and belief . the Secretary of State write to the co - chair of the Inter Faith Network on 19 January this year to inform they that he be minded to withdraw the offer of funding for the 2023 - 24 financial year . this be because of the appointment of a member of the Muslim Council of Britain to the board of trustee of the IFN . as the House will be aware , successive government have have a long - stand policy of non - engagement with the MCB . the appointment of an MCB member to the core governance structure of a government - fund organisation therefore pose a reputational risk to the Government . the Secretary of State invite the IFN to make representation on this matter , which it subsequently do . he carefully consider the point raise by the IFN before conclude that its point be outweigh by the need to maintain the Government ' s policy of non - engagement with the MCB , and the risk of compromise the credibility and effectiveness of that policy . Inter - faith work be valuable , but that do not require we to use taxpayer ' money in a way that legitimise the influence of organisation such as the MCB . the Department regularly remind our partner , include the IFN , of the importance of develop sustainable funding arrangement rather than rely on taxpayer ' money , which can never be guarantee . the potential closure of the organisation be therefore a matter for the IFN , as an independent charity , and not the Government . the Government continue to be fully supportive of develop and maintain strong relationship across faith and belief . since 1987 , the Inter Faith Network have be the UK ' s principal vehicle for inter - faith dialogue , support the annual Inter Faith Week , and activity and dialogue undertake by inter - faith group across the whole country . the network have be support by Government funding for some 20 year . the IFN be tell on 31 March last year , before the trustee appointment that the Minister refer to , that its funding would be end from the follow day . why have the organisation be treat in that extraordinary way ? last July , the network receive a letter from the Secretary of State to inform it that it would , after all , receive funding for the current financial year . that promise have never be honour . why not ? give the debate in this Chamber yesterday , be it not extraordinarily stupid to be shut down at this precise point our principal vehicle in the UK for muslim - jewish dialogue ? surely we need more , not to be shut it down ? why have the Secretary of State not honour the commitment that he make to I to meet I , the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) and the noble Lord Singh to discuss this matter before make his decision , and will the Minister pay tribute and express thank to the trustee and officer of the Inter Faith Network for the very important contribution that they have make to UK national life over the last 37 year ? I truly believe that inter - faith work make a good contribution to our society . my constituency be one of the most diverse in the entire country , and I have on a number of occasion bring together my mosque , my synagogue , christian church and my gurdwara . we recognise the benefit of inter - faith activity . I thank the Inter Faith Network for its work ; however , we have always be clear with that organisation and any other organisation or charity that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities fund that they need to put in place alternative source of funding . as I say , the Government can not fund this organisation when a trustee be part of the MCB . I be contact last year by my constituent Esmond Rosen of the Barnet Multi Faith Forum , who express concern about the imminent withdrawal of funding from the IFN . as we have hear , it look in July as if the problem be resolve — at least for the financial year — so it be regrettable that we be in this position . I completely understand the importance of not engage with organisation that have hard - line view , but surely we can find some compromise to keep the IFN in business , because it do incredibly valuable work to foster respect and mutual understanding between different faith group . I thank my right hon . friend for all her work on inter - faith matter . what have change since July be the appointment in November of a trustee who be a member of the MCB . in term of inter - faith work , there be so many example of positive , thriving initiative across the country that be bring people together . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities fund a number of those partner , include Near Neighbours and strengthen Faith Institutions , which organise local - level inter - faith event to foster community cohesion . I call the shadow Minister . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) for secure the urgent question . Inter - faith and multi - faith dialogue be absolutely essential component of society , not only to resolve difference but to build strong and collaborative community that be able to come together in time of need . give recent event — the war and violence in Gaza — that be more important than ever . as I be sure the whole House recognise , the Government have a special responsibility to facilitate positive relationship between different faith community , and although I appreciate that the Minister have now give some explanation of why they have choose to withdraw funding for the IFN , outstanding question remain . let I ask the Minister some straightforward question . when be the decision to withdraw funding from the network make ? what impact assessment be make , and what discussion be have about the vital need to continue to promote understanding about and between different faith group , and to encourage co - operation ? when be the Inter Faith Network notify of the decision ? do the Minister have plan to increase support for other group to make up for any loss of provision arise from this decision ? every Department will inevitably monitor and review the grant that they award , but the House should expect that to be do in the spirit of due process . as politician , we have a responsibility to bring community together . at a time when division be be expose , I hope that the Minister can assure the House that the Government remain committed to inter - faith and multi - faith dialogue . I thank the hon . member for her comment . again , I stress the importance of inter - faith work . I see it in my own constituency ; it be very important . the Government be already support other institution that do such work . the hon . Member ask specifically for timeline . the Secretary of State write to the IFN on 19 January say that he be " minded to withdraw " the offer of funding in light of what we have discuss . he invite the Inter Faith Network to make representation to he on this matter , and he receive its response on 22 January . after careful consideration of those representation , he confirm that he wish to withdraw the offer of funding to the Inter Faith Network for the reason that we have discuss . he write to the co - chair on 21 February to inform they of his decision . I stress again that the Department have be very clear that the Inter Faith Network should have be develop other sustainable source of funding . I be proud to represent the constituency in this country with the great adherence to religious faith , and many of those faith be minority religion . we have a very strong inter - faith council that bring together people of all religion to sort out their difference and sort out tension . I have have representation from the Jain community , the zoroastrian community and other , express their concern that the majority religion — the large religion in this country — will always be able to have their say because of their strength and power , but the minority religion will not . give the Government ' s decision to withdraw funding from the Inter Faith Network , what be go to take the place of that important organisation that bring together people of all faith , enable they to settle their difference ? I thank my hon . friend for everything he do with his faith community in his constituency . as I have say , DLUHC continue to fund a range of partner , include Near Neighbours and strengthen Faith Institutions ; we believe in inter - faith work to strengthen community cohesion . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) for have secure this urgent question ; back in January , I secure an Adjournment debate urge the Government to think again about their decision . one of the thing I find most concern about how this decision have be handle be that , on occasion , journalist seem to have be in possession of letter from the Secretary of State to the Inter Faith Network at the same time as the IFN receive they , or possibly before . that be no way to carry on . there have be very little attempt to have any serious conversation with the Inter Faith Network without those letter be in the public domain almost immediately . this work be more important now than ever before , so will the Minister think again about fund this organisation into the future ? it be not too late . as I have say , very proper consideration go into this decision after we have hear representation from the Inter Faith Network . the decision on Government funding have now be make . we have always be clear that the Inter Faith Network need to develop alternative source of funding ; institution such as these can not be solely reliant on Government funding . be that not the point ? this organisation have have about £ 2 million in income in the past five year , and three quarter of that income have come from the Government — from the taxpayer . be not the message for other organisation that they should not be too dependent on taxpayer funding ? my hon . friend have express that point very well . I have be contact by my constituent , Diana Francis — who be a Quaker — about her deep concern regard the sudden withdrawal of fund for the Inter Faith Network . my inter - faith group in Bath have do invaluable work to bring community together , nurture tolerance , understanding , and the dialogue that be so important between people of different religious background . can the Minister not see how this sudden decision to withdraw funding at a time of heighten tension only drive division , and that people in my constituency be really concerned that there be nothing that will replace an organisation as unique as the Inter Faith Network ? as I have say , we strongly welcome all of the inter - faith work that happen across our community . we have always be clear that the Inter Faith Network need to diversify its funding source , and we be also very clear that funding would not be give after 2024 in any instance . that be communicate to the IFN back in July . I declare an interest : I be an active member of Christians in Parliament and a former parliamentary churchwarden of St Margaret ' s . the closure of the Inter Faith Network be not seriously about a relatively small amount of money ; it be about the message it send at this time in our country , when all of we in this House be work for inter - faith dialogue , try to cool the atmosphere and address the problem we know about in many community in this country . psychologically , it be the wrong time and the wrong move . please , for the good of our country and for community relation , will the Government think again ? as I have say , inter - faith work be very important , and we fund a number of organisation to do it . I will not repeat the name ; I have already mention they . this decision be take because , as part of the core governance of the Inter Faith Network , there be a member of the MCB , with which the Government do not maintain relation . I reiterate the point that other member have make , particularly those of my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) and my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) . for this to happen in the current international context be absolutely outrageous . it be a politically obtuse decision . may I press the Minister on the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) about the risk assessment the Government have do to understand the impact on community relation ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . as I have say , very careful consideration go into this decision . it have be a long - stand policy of successive government , first introduce in 2009 by a Labour Government , not to engage with the MCB . I listen carefully to the Minister ' s response to my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , when she say that the Government take inter - faith work very seriously , but action speak louder than word . cut off funding with just a few hour ' notice be not helpful to this important organisation . what step will dluhc now take to support dialogue in any area where it have be lose ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . as I say , DLUHC fund a number of organisation that work very intensively at a local level to support inter - faith work and community cohesion . I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . as image from outside this House last night make clear , it be very important that people of all faith have a point at which to meet and to focus on the thing that draw we together , rather than those that divide we . how will the Government and the Minister achieve that when this body , the Inter Faith Network , close ? how can we — that mean all of we in this House together , and those outside this House — continue on journey of embrace all faith and increase awareness of those faith ? I think understanding of faith be incredibly important , and that be why we encourage inter - faith work , especially at a local level . I have already talk about what I do in my constituency , and I find it very valuable . in this particular instance , we can not continue to fund the Inter Faith Network , but we do fund other organisation , and we wish they well . we have always make it clear to the Inter Faith Network that it need to develop alternative source of funding . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . business of the House I ask the Leader of the House for the forthcoming business . the business for the week commence 26 February will include : Monday 26 February — consideration of a Humble Address follow the return of the devolved institution in Northern Ireland , follow by a general debate on farming . Tuesday 27 February — remain stage of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . Wednesday 28 February — Second reading of the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 29 February — debate on a motion on language in politic on International Women ' s day , follow by a general debate on Welsh affair . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 1 March — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 4 March include : Monday 4 March — debate on a motion on risk - base exclusion follow the recommendation from the House of Commons Commission , follow by a general debate on a subject to be announce . Tuesday 5 March — Second reading of the Automated Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 6 March — my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will deliver his Budget statement . Thursday 7 March — Continuation of the Budget debate . Friday 8 March — the House will not be sit . yesterday be a very difficult day in the House of Commons , and for Mr Speaker personally , as he do his utmost to do what he think be in the good interest of the House . we should all reflect on how we get to where we get to and accept our part in it . I welcome Mr Speaker ' s desire to resolve these matter in discussion with we and other across the House , and I be sure that the vast majority of Members accept his genuine and heartfelt commitment to this House , and that he always have the good intention in make his decision . I do not want to go over those issue now , except to say that I be grateful to Mr Speaker for seek to enable the wide possible range of view to be express . no one could have foresee event unfold as they do . as it be — [ interruption . ] order . let we not have a repeat of the behaviour last night . can we listen to each other with respect ? it be not good to have this shouting at the shadow Leader of the House — calmness , please . as you say , Madam Deputy Speaker , it really be not a good look . no one could have foresee what happen . as it be , with the Scottish National party indicate that it would vote for our amendment , along with many conservative Members , it be right that it should be put . the Government make an extraordinary decision to withdraw from the debate , raise a number of question . however , let we not forget that we be discuss the most serious of matter — those of life and death , war and conflict , and how we as a country , and as a Parliament , can play our part in bring about a much - long - for last peace , base on a two - state solution . it be to be regret that at such a time we do not show ourselves at our good and that parliamentary antic be the story , not Parliament come together with one voice , say , " we want the fighting to stop , with an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and a meaningful process . " we can all reflect on that . my final reflection be that I hope this place will have more time , not less , to debate and discuss these profound matter . it should not be leave to Opposition day debate and urgent question to get they air in the first place . as we debate these important matter , a long shadow be increasingly cast over we : threat , intimidation and security concern — [ interruption . ] I mean , it ' s remarkable . I know that this issue be of huge concern to Mr Speaker too ; it be something that keep he awake at night and be his first priority . I join he in praise the security team work to keep we safe . the legitimate lobbying of Members be part and parcel of our job and our democracy . that , at time , can be robust , and we can all disagree strongly , yet increasingly we be see a line be cross . I know that member feel uncomfortable discuss their experience for fear of attract more unwanted attention , or because we do not want to come across as whingeing when we have such privileged position , but during recess we see another line be cross , with the intimidation of a Member and their family at their family home . report that other organisation will be target the home of mps ahead of and during the election have cause huge anxiety . it be a totally unacceptable development . oh , there be no noise for that one . it not only cause anxiety for mps and their family , neighbour and staff ; it be antidemocratic and be undoubtedly start to affect people ' s decision and behaviour . that be wrong , and we must do more to address it . do the Leader of the House agree that the police should take a much more hard - line approach to so - call protest outside the home of member of Parliament ? can she confirm that the police should use the power they have to stop such protest , and say whether further guidance can be issue ? do the Leader of the House agree that we need to look at the cause , not just the symptom , of this sometimes toxic and febrile environment ? first , do she agree that we have a duty to be careful with our language and in how we conduct ourselves and challenge one another , and that we should avoid stoke division ? next , do she agree that more should be do , with extra power give , to regulate social medium and elsewhere to tackle the spread of misinformation , disinformation , deepfake and other dangerous material ? with the rise in antisemitism , Islamophobia and hate , can the Leader of the House confirm that the Government will bring forward a hate crime and extremism strategy with urgency ? finally , do she agree that the defend democracy taskforce should have a broad remit to defend democracy from threat within our border , and that we should take a more cross - party approach as we head towards what be likely to be a very testing general election ? first , may I join with all those who have pay tribute to Alexei Navalny ? in the wake of an assassination attempt , he return to stand with his fellow countryman against Putin ' s tyranny , know full well what that might mean for he and his family . he put his country and his countryman before himself . I remind the House that the Government will again outline our position on the very serious matter of Israel and Gaza in a write ministerial statement soon . I join the hon . Lady in her thank to the security service , particularly those of the House authority , for keep we safe . I point to our record on adapt legislation to cope with the evolve nature of some pretty awful protest that not just mps but the general public have be put up with . there be also the work we have be do in the House on social medium , the new service in the House of Commons Library and the defend democracy taskforce . it would be nice to have the opposition ' s support on those matter , in particular on the legislation that we will bring forward . I want to say that this House will never bow to extremist , threat or intimidation . it have not , it will not , it must not . I ask all member not to do this House a further disservice by suggest that the shameful event that take place yesterday be anything other than party politic on behalf of the Labour party . let I bring the House up to date . two significant thing happen yesterday , and I be not sure all hon . member have clock they . first , it fall to those on the Government Benches to defend the right of a minority party in this House . if the hon . Lady can not bring herself to reflect on the appalling consequence of her party ' s action yesterday — if she can not rise above the narrow and immediate need of her weak and fickle leader to fulfil her duty to this House as its shadow Leader — perhaps she might like to reflect on the damage her party have do to the office of the Speaker . I would never have do to he what the Labour party have do to he . secondly , we have see into the heart of Labour ' s leadership . nothing be more important than the interest of the Labour party . the Labour party before principle ; the Labour party before individual right ; the Labour party before the reputation and honour of the decent man who sit in the Speaker ' s Chair ; the Labour party before fairness , integrity and democracy ; in Rochdale , the Labour party before a zero - tolerance policy on antisemitism ; and — many of we know this about the labour leader ; I see it in his frustration at our country get the good deal possible when we leave the EU — the Labour party before country . I must tell the hon . Lady that the people of this country do not have a copy of the Standing Orders of this House lie around their home , and they have not be chat about parliamentary procedure over their cornflake this morning , but they value fairness and they want the right of all to be protect . they can not abide bully and cheat . they can not abide people who trash our nation or fail to defend its interest , or the institution that protect they . government Members often rightly criticise the former leader of the Labour party , the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , for the thing he stand for and for be wrong on matter , but I will say one thing about he : at least he think he be right on they . the current leader of the Labour party be quite happy to do what he know to be wrong . he put the interest of the Labour party before the interest of the british people . it be the Labour leader who do not get Britain , and the past week have show that he be not fit to lead it . may I suggest that the priority of the House should be to command the confidence of our voter ? I do not think that they , or indeed a majority in the House , feel that we resolve anything on the question of Gaza and Israel yesterday , so may I suggest to my right hon . friend that the Government take up the suggestion make by the shadow Leader of the House and hold a debate on the subject in Government time , on a Government motion , so that the motion and every amendment can be consider ? that would draw a line under this matter . I thank my hon . friend for his suggestion . it be sad that what happen yesterday with regard to the Speaker happen when the SNP be try to hold an Opposition day debate on the most serious of issue . I hear what he say , and will be speak to business manager . I call the SNP spokesperson . yesterday be incredibly disappointing , from our point of view . it be mean to be an Opposition day , and it be one of only three time in a calendar year when our party get an opportunity to put forward its business to the House . I do not think that what we come forward with be a surprise to anyone . we be allocate an Opposition day four or five week ago , but totally understandably , it have to be move when the Northern Ireland Assembly be reconvening . at that stage , there be conversation , and I be ask when people would have sight of the Gaza motion that we would bring forward , so it be quite extraordinary for anyone to suggest that they do not know we might come forward with a motion on that topic . when it get to our Opposition day — one of the very few time when we can put forward our policy — our voice be silence : our motion could not be vote on . that be incredibly disappointing for I and a significant number of my constituent , and those of my hon . friend and hon . member from across the Chamber who want to support the motion . give that , in effect , we do not get an Opposition day yesterday , can we be allocate an alternative date ? as other have say , we lose a significant amount of time at the start of the debate , and because of the Speaker ' s decision , unfortunately we lose 40 minute at the end of the debate . that mean that colleague be cut short , and some withdraw from the debate . what consideration will the Leader of the House give to that suggestion — and , beyond that , to protection for the small party , so that they be not simply railroad for the political purpose of either of the big party ? I echo the comment of the shadow Leader of the House , but it be critical that all member of this place , whatever their position or status , be protect from bullying and intimidation . if report from many medium outlet be to be believe , it be entirely unacceptable that significant pressure be put on Mr Speaker to come to his decision yesterday . what step will the Leader of the House take to investigate those very serious claim ? if there be any substance to they , it be an affront to democracy that a party leader can direct decision of the Chair of this place . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be , as Chief Whip , involve in a number of conversation on how business come forward . I have direct assurance that I would have a vote on the word of my motion yesterday . everyone know well in advance what the potential outcome would be at the end of yesterday ' s debate , so to suggest that no one know be utter nonsense . the reason we be in this position be that convention and the Standing Orders of this House be overrule , against the advice of the Clerks . that only happen because the Labour party want to be dig out of a hole . that be unacceptable . it be no secret to anyone who regularly tune into these session that frequently I disagree with Scottish National party member on every point that they raise , but they have a right to say these thing on the Floor of the House and to debate their issue . if I be able to speak in yesterday ' s debate , I would have be critical of how they bring forward their motion , and perhaps of their motive for do so , but it be their right to do as they do . our Standing Orders protect the ability of minority party in particular to have those debate . yesterday ' s decision have serious consequence for minority party and for the Government ; for instance , our amendment be the only one that mention the violence against woman and girl that have take place . it be important to ensure that the right of minority party be protect . I be very sympathetic to the SNP be give more time , and to it be knock off the Labour party ' s allocation . with regard to the serious matter of Mr Speaker , he come to the House yesterday and apologise . I know that he be meet all party on this matter , and I will meet he later today . the Leader of the House will be aware that I represent Romford in the London Borough of Havering , a historical Essex market town . will she please arrange for a debate to take place on the Floor of the House about the fairness of local government funding ? my borough be near bankruptcy because of the failure to have a fair funding system . we be also fleece by the Mayor of London , who take huge sum of money from place like Havering to fund the Greater London Authority . can we have a debate about reform to local government in Greater London , and fair funding for borough such as Havering — and hopefully a referendum , so that we can go back to be fully part of Essex ? I welcome my hon . friend back to his place . he be quite right to raise the matter of pressure on his council , particularly those bear of the action of the Mayor of London , whose budget be in crisis . local government have have about a 7 % uplift across the board , but London borough clearly face local issue and particular pressure because of the Mayor ' s mismanagement . my hon . friend will know that the next question to the relevant Secretary of State be on 4 March . I call the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for the business statement and , in particular , for announce the Backbench Business debate for next Thursday . I think the Leader of the House will be aware that between now and Easter , the Backbench Business Committee have little or no time to allocate for debate in the Chamber beyond next Thursday , due to other business encroach into Thursdays , include the Budget debate . I therefore wonder whether , if there be any additional time between now and the Easter recess , the Leader of the House could tip I the wink as soon as possible , and if she could tip we the wink , via the normal channel , when the date of the estimate day debate be know . we would really appreciate that , so that we can get the wheel in motion . of course , we continue to welcome application for debate in Westminster Hall on Tuesdays and Thursdays . our Committee have write to the Procedure Committee to ask for a change to Standing Orders , so that Westminster Hall debate on Thursdays can begin at 12 . 30 pm instead of 1 . 30 pm . it seem that the start time have not catch up with change to the parliamentary timetable over the year ; the change might facilitate well attendance at debate on a Thursday afternoon . I thank the hon . Gentleman , again , for his advert for the Backbench Business Committee . he know that I be keen to give he time , and early sight of the allocation , so that he can fill in slot for debate , and will certainly make he aware of the date for estimate day debate . I hope to be able to update he very shortly . do my right hon . friend agree that it be hard for market town to thrive without an open bank ? that be why I hope she will join I in congratulate the people and business in Bacup in Lancashire , as well as Link , Cash Access UK and the ATM network , which have work with I to deliver on my pledge to bring banking back to Bacup . I hope we can find time in this House to have a debate on the new banking hub that be open in a fantastic historical market town in Lancashire . I congratulate my right hon . friend and his constituent who have work to ensure that these service continue . it be understandable , as bank look to cut cost , that they give up brick and mortar , but that do not mean the disappearance of those vital service from our community . well do to all . I be sure that many hon . member will ask he for advice in the future . Devon and Cornwall police have be in special measure since 2022 , after multiple failing . last week , it be reveal that seven current and former woman police officer be sue the force for fail to deal with rape , beating and psychological torture by male colleague over a number of year . could the Leader of the House arrange for a Home Office Minister to make a statement reassure the people of Devon and Cornwall and serve woman police officer that these allegation will be thoroughly and independently investigate , and any wrongdoing punish ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this terrible situation . he will know that the next Home Office question be on 26 February , and I encourage he to raise it directly with the Home Secretary there , but give the serious nature of this issue I will make sure the Home Secretary have hear what he have say today and that at the very least his office be update . do my right hon . friend agree that the real issue of the event of the last 24 hour be not the party political shenanigan suggest by the shadow Leader of the House , but that this House appear cow by threat of violence and intimidation ? the mother of Parliaments appear weaken and diminish as a result . we have allow our street to be dominate by islamist extremist , and british Jews and other to be too intimidate to walk through central London week after week . now we be allow islamist extremist to intimidate british Members of Parliament . this be wrong . it have to stop . will my right hon . friend organise a debate on extremism and how we tackle this challenge , which be one of the central issue face our generation ? I could not agree more with my right hon . friend . british Jews be suffer a grotesque level of hatred and abuse , which quite frankly shame our country . he be absolutely right that there can not be any tolerance or quarter give to individual who threaten and try to prevent member of Parliament conduct their business and honour the obligation they have to their constituent to use their judgment when they come into this place . he will know that there be a tremendous amount of work go on with the House and within the Government to ensure that we protect democracy and protect all community in Britain . I will make sure the Home Secretary have hear his remark today . this be quite a ticklish question . I be the long - serve Member on the Opposition Benches and I have see scene like those we see yesterday on , I think , only one other occasion . indeed , it be shameful that the BBC have to blank off the proceeding at one stage because of the crude and vile language that be come from one end of the Chamber . can we seriously review what go wrong yesterday and get it sort ? I have every confidence — [ interruption . ] can I be allow to say this ? we should learn from what happen yesterday , rather than carry on the awful rowdy behaviour we see . as this be business question , may we have an early debate on people up and down the country , mainly in the north of England but also in Wales , who have be fleece by lawyer and legal company over cavity wall insulation ? People who have get bad cavity wall insulation be be absolutely ruin and be lose their home because of predatory lawyer . on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , I do not think there be any doubt about what take place yesterday . it be completely shameful . I do not think there be any doubt about the procedural consequence — if member be still in the dark about that , the Clerk of the House have provide some very clear advice . I do want to take the heat out of this . I think that we do need to reflect on what have happen , but I can tell he , as Leader of the House , that I will defend the right of all member to air view and the right voice of opposition party to be hear in this Chamber . it be to my great sadness that it fall to I yesterday to do that for this place . with regard to the other matter the hon . Gentleman raise , I shall make sure the Secretary of State have hear what he have say . Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a point of order that be germane to the proceeding . point of order will come after the Select Committee statement . if the hon . Gentleman have want to intervene in business question , I would of course have call he if he have be here at the beginning , but I be afraid that I have to direct he to make his point of order at the end of the Select Committee statement . while I be about it , it might be useful for I to remind right hon . and hon . member that any criticism of the Speaker or the Deputy Speakers can be make only on a substantive motion . bear in mind what the Leader of the House say about take the temperature down , I want to remind member that that be the case . in order to be here at this time , I have delay give a personal statement to the police on the late individual who think that member of this House be fair game to be harass , stalk and threaten . it be clear that the lack of transparency over the reason why we sometimes vote one way or another mean that our vote be often wilfully misinterpret and use to drum up hatred against parliamentarian , and that that pervert our democracy . let I make a suggestion . the European Parliament have many flaw , but in that place it be possible to place a write explanation of vote on the Parliament ' s website , beside one ' s voting record . the Opposition and Government spokesman do it on behalf of their party , and any individual member can submit their own write explanation of why they have vote the way they have . it prevent the vote from be misinterpret , it keep member safe , and it stop democracy be pervert . will my right hon . friend take that idea on board , stop the opposition wilfully misinterpret our vote on opposition day , and help to keep our democracy safe ? I be sure that I speak on behalf of all in the House when I say how sorry we be to hear that my right hon . friend be have to endure the abuse that she have describe . as I say at the start of my statement , this House will never kowtow to extremist or intimidation , and right hon . and hon . member take their responsibility in this place and to their constituent extremely seriously . I thank my right hon . friend for her very helpful suggestion , and I will certainly look at that . let I just say , however , that while we can update practice and do other thing in this place to help member of the public understand what be actually go on and draw clarity in relation to what our proceeding be focus on and what we be vote on and why , we be all oblige to act with honour and integrity and to support democracy in this place . I have no jurisdiction over opposition attack ad , and if there be any reflection to be do follow the last 24 hour , I ask the Opposition to reflect on that . may I add my thank to the security service who be work so hard and effectively to keep we all safe ? they do sterling work at a community meeting that I hold last week in my constituency , and I thank they very much for that . as the Leader of the House will know , I be a member of the Restoration and Renewal Programme Board . we all love this magnificent place of work and appreciate be able to work in this wonderful palace of Westminster , but the structure of the place be not in a good way . as have be say during the programme board ' s meeting , it need open heart surgery . [ interruption . ] I be talk about the structure of this place . for much of last year , my colleague on the board and I be work hard to identify a shortlist of option for deliver restoration and renewal that we feel would command the support of member throughout the House . give all the work we have put in , it be frustrating that we be still no close to make progress . we need to maintain momentum and get on with R & R . when and how will member be update on the various option and proposal so that we can move forward and restore the building ? this be important work that need to be do to keep we and everyone who work here safe . I thank the hon . Lady and all those who have be serve on both the programme board and the client board . the House will be pleased to know that great progress have be make . we have be able to get some real grip and granularity into the programme , and we also have a number of project that we can get on with while we be look at decant option and other thing that will take more time . she know that the next client board meeting will be on Monday and will look to take some of those decision , but this House need to be sight on programme that be go forward and on the option , and it must have a say in those too . the Leader of the House be right to withdraw from yesterday ' s debate when it be clear that convention be be break . those who put pressure on the Speaker to break with convention should reflect on their action . if it be because member of Parliament could be intimidate or at risk for how they vote , that be even bad and actually quite frightening . have say that , the Speaker have say he make a mistake , and the House rely on we have confidence in the Speaker . we should move on now , and I would recommend that we do not put in motion of no confidence . instead , we should restore our reputation as soon as possible by have a proper debate on a Government motion , whereby all amendment can be consider . I thank my right hon . friend for what he have say and the tone he have strike in say it . the Speaker come to this House last night , take responsibility for his action and apologise . he be reflect on what have happen , and he be meet all party . I hope that everyone who be involve in the event yesterday , and in the consequence of they , will also reflect on their action and take responsibility for they . my constituent Charlie McKerrow have campaign for redress for victim of sodium valproate and feed into the Baroness Cumberlege report , which , as far back as 2020 , recommend a compensation scheme . another constituent , Gillian McQueen , have contact I . she state : " I will not be around forever , I need to know my child will be financially secure . " the Patient Safety Commissioner have also recommend that compensation be pay , and have submit a report to the Government . when will the Government design a compensation scheme for victim of sodium valproate ? will they confirm that it will be a UK - wide scheme , so that the child of my constituent get the compensation and support they deserve ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the report be recently publish , and the Government have commit to respond to it very swiftly . he will know that the next question to the Secretary of State be on 5 March , but I will make sure that the Government have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say and update his office . the Leader of the House will have hear I ask the Prime Minister a question yesterday about the threat to food security pose by a string of monstrous pylon that will run down the east coast and through some of the most productive farmland in the country . simultaneously , we face application for huge solar plant on the good land we have , which feed the nation ; 30 % of our fresh produce be grow on this land . give her exemplary answer to I last week , will the Leader of the House , in that vein , arrange for a meeting with the relevant Secretaries of State and a delegation — inevitably lead by I — of affected colleague , so that we can immediately put an end to these threat to our food security ? I thank my right hon . friend for all the campaign work he be do on this very important issue . it be an important matter not just for his constituent directly affect by it , because it have implication for our food security if large swathe of high - quality agricultural land be not be use to grow food and build this nation ' s resilience . he will know that the next question to the Secretary of State be on 14 March , but I will write this afternoon on my right hon . friend ' s behalf and encourage a meeting with a Minister and all colleague affect by this issue . I have to say that I be ashamed to be a Member of Parliament last night . however , I understand from what the Leader of the House have say this morning that she agree that we should observe the nolan principle . I be go to ask for a debate on that matter , but give that the Chair of the Liaison Committee and other be call for a debate on Gaza , could she confirm that there will be a debate on Gaza in Government time , which will allow all of we to vote ? the issue of substance yesterday be a very important and serious matter . I can assure the House that there will be ample opportunity in the future to debate it on the Floor of the House , and I will announce further business in the usual way . I gently say to the hon . Lady that I be not ashamed to be a Member of Parliament , and I be not ashamed to be a Member of Parliament yesterday . I think if I be a member of the Labour party , I would be ashamed of that . it be with regret that I have table early - day motion 412 . [ that this House have no confidence in Mr Speaker . ] may I ask the Leader of the House about a procedural point , as my EDM continue to gather name this morning ? could she confirm from the Dispatch Box the process by which that motion can be bring as a substantive motion to the Floor of the House in order to be debate and vote on ? the Government will always listen carefully to the view of this House , and the Speaker need to command its confidence . the future of the speakership be therefore a matter for member of the House , not the Government , but we will of course listen to any request for debate in Government time . member will also know other route by which they can secure a debate . I reiterate that Mr Speaker have make himself available to speak to all the party , and I be sure that his door be always open to member individually too . yesterday I take the opportunity to pop into the young live vs Cancer event , which be sponsor by my hon . friend the Member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) . I meet a very inspiring young person , Amy , who tell I about the obstacle that young people face when they receive a cancer diagnosis . close to home , my dear Uncle Tommy have just receive a terminal diagnosis and be give four month to live . he be face that news with great courage and determination , and with his usual sense of humour . would the Leader of the House like to join I in send the House ' s good wish to both Amy and my uncle , Tommy Aitchison , who be back home in Viewpark ? could we have a debate on the Floor of the House about cancer outcome for all people across all nation of the UK ? the reality be that we must do well from the start to the very end for people who have a cancer diagnosis . I be sure that I speak for all member of the House in send our good wish and support to the hon . Gentleman ' s uncle and his loved one follow that very sad news . cancer outcome have improve dramatically over the past few year , thank to our incredible science base , our third sector , which support such research so critically , and of course the work go on in our NHS and the organisation that support it , but there be more to do . I thank the hon . gentleman for what he have say today , and all our good wish go to his family . collectively , last night be not our fine hour , but Mr Speaker have apologise to the House for his role in what happen , show evident contrition , and I think we should respect that . if we err in this Chamber , we be expect to apologise to he , and we hope that he will accept our apology in good faith . I think that we should pay he the same courtesy . speak purely personally , I well remember everything that Mr Speaker do to help I , and all of we , when our great friend — my good friend — be murder by , as it happen , an islamic extremist , who tell his trial that he do it because of how David vote in the House of Commons . Mr Speaker go the extra mile to help we all deal with that tragedy . look at that plaque behind I . we should put last night right by rerun the debate in Government time . Mr Speaker be a decent man , as the Leader of the House say ; he be not the villain here . we should rerun the debate , and he should be in his rightful place preside from the Chair . we be lucky to have he , aren ' t we ? I thank my right hon . friend for what he have say . I think there be no need for I to add to that ; he say it very well . it be rare that I find myself in complete agreement with the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) but , on a personal level , Mr Speaker — both as Speaker and as a Deputy Speaker — have always take my security concern , and those of other member , very seriously . despite the House ' s disagreement , I know that my constituent in Cardiff South and Penarth be not interested in debate about procedure ; they be interested in the fact on the ground in Gaza . there be sincere concern about the suffering and horror that we have see . could the Leader of the House urgently provide some update guidance for how all member can respond to concern raise by constituent who have family in Gaza ? many of we have be try to deal with individual case , as well as try to support colleague , and we need guidance for british citizen trap in Gaza , for citizen of ally and other country with which we have good diplomatic relation , and for those who do not have citizenship of other place . what can be do to support those who be , for example , be deny healthcare or be in perilous situation ? we need urgent guidance so that we can all help to deal with the real issue , which be the suffering and horror we see in Gaza . I thank the hon . gentleman for bring we back to the matter of substance . he will know that I have work with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , and particularly its consular team , to ensure that member can get information fast , particularly during recess , when deal with case in which people be in peril or immediate danger . I will touch base with the fcdo and with member after business question to ensure that all the advice and guidance be up to date . I have be pleased to help obtain additional funding for urgent A & E service at Northwick Park Hospital , on which many of my constituent rely for their healthcare . the Northwick Park , St Mark ' s , Central Middlesex and Ealing hospital now have a collective backlog of £ 56 million - worth of urgent repair . it be clear that hospital across the country be crumble . we need to have a debate in Government time on what we can do collectively to ensure that we have the medical facility in this country that the public rightly demand and that we have a duty to provide . I thank my hon . friend for his continued campaigning to ensure not only that his constituent have the healthcare professional uplift that they need , and that they now enjoy , but that the building from which those professional operate be fit for purpose . the next Health and Social Care question be on 5 March . I know my hon . friend be a passionate advocate on this issue , and I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what he say this afternoon . it be important that we discuss what happen last night in a moderate , reasonable and respectful way . we all have lesson to learn , but in order for those lesson to be learn we must be clear about what actually happen and the precise chain of event , so I would like to ask the Leader of the House a simple question : why do she decide to withdraw the Government ' s amendment ? I direct the hon . gentleman to the advice of the Clerk of the House and the consequence that stem from it . the result of yesterday ' s decision be that minority party would never be able to vote on their own motion in an Opposition day debate . that be a break with the procedure of this House , and I know there be ongoing conversation between Mr Speaker and the Deputy Speakers about how we can ensure that the office of Speaker be never again put upon in the way it be yesterday . we all know what happen yesterday . if the hon . Gentleman be not aware , he should talk to those on his Front Bench . the most worrying thing about yesterday be that member be be intimidate for what they say and how they vote , because of fear about their physical safety and that of their staff and family . add to that , we have a climate of hard - line support that have see antisemitism on the street of our capital city . my constituent from the jewish community feel intimidate about come into the centre of London , so may we have a debate on how to address this intolerable climate ? we can not go on like this . I thank my right hon . friend for raise this very important point . it be beneficial to air these matter and to ensure that we focus the service of the House and other resource , such as the police , on protect Members of Parliament when they go out to perform their daily duty for the people who send they here . I know that people often like to beat up on Members of Parliament and what they do , but we be send here by the british people . what we do protect their interest , and we have to be free to use our judgment to vote in the way that we think be in their interest . anything that interfere with that be an assault on democracy , and we need to ensure that member and the public can go about their daily life and do their duty for their country without intimidation or bad . if we be to believe Mr Speaker that his selection of amendment yesterday be to allow the wide possible debate , can the Leader of the House explain why he do not select the Lib Dem amendment ? the reality be that the SNP be stitch up by yesterday ' s deal with the Labour party . do she share my incredulity that a Speaker who insist that we can not speak in this place without wear a tie now want we to move on and modernise ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for afford I another opportunity to direct member to the Clerk ' s advice . anyone who peddle the line that this decision would have lead to a wide debate have not read that advice . I meet the Watford Hackney Carriage Drivers Association last year to discuss the challenge face by our brilliant taxi driver . the closure of Watford ' s Pryzm nightclub in January be a devastating blow to the local taxi trade . how can I encourage ride - hail company such as Bolt to consider include driver from the Watford Hackney Carriage Drivers Association on their black cab scheme , which would contribute greatly to the local night - time economy ? I thank my hon . friend for raise awareness and for demonstrate that a thriving night - time economy be vital for local taxi driver , and the reverse be also true . I encourage he to seek a debate in which the Minister can hear his view ; he know how to apply for that . our taxi driver play an essential role in our community , and he will know that the next Transport question be on 21 March . many of my constituent , include member of the Sikh community and local gurdwara , have write to I regard their serious concern about the safety of protest farmer in their attempt to march towards the indian capital , New Delhi . yesterday , a protester be kill during a report stand - off with police , where the cause of death be " a bullet wound to the head . " the Punjab health Minister confirm that a second boy also sustain a bullet wound but " luckily he have survive " , with another 13 people be treat for injury in hospital . the BBC have report today that x — Twitter — admit to be compel , against their wish , to take down the legitimate post and account of activist . do the Leader of the House agree that freedom of expression , the safety of protester and their human right must be protect ? what representation have the Government make to their indian counterpart to that effect ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that very serious situation . of course , the Government support the right to protest in safety . I shall ensure the Foreign Office have hear his concern and ask the relevant Minister to get in touch with his office . I call Ian Liddell - Grainger . thank you , Mr Speaker ; it be good to see you in the Chair . may we have a debate on rogue council ? Mid Devon District Council , which I have talk about many time , have now threaten its former leader — other party as well — with legal action for dispute what have go on with the 3 Rivers development . there have be a lack of scrutiny and a lack of accountability . this be million of pound , not thousand . the chair of scrutiny , believe it or not , have a party on public fund — the chief exec be up to his neck in this — and the leader of the council , who , as we know , pack perfume for a living , be unprepared to do the work that a council leader should do , regardless of persuasion . can we please have a debate in Government time about council ' responsibility for deal with situation that have go wrong and not sue their former colleague who be try to do their job ? my hon . friend be very diligent in pursue these matter at all opportunity , include business question . I suggest that the issue be perhaps well raise with the Secretary of State on 4 March in departmental question . a lot have be say about the event of yesterday , but let we not forget that the outcome be that this Parliament have give a clear mandate on our position on Gaza — [ interruption . ] that be very important . let I move on to a constituency matter . People in Oldham work very hard for a house for their family to live in and they expect security for that , but some be have the roof literally take from over their head , include Mr Potter through an agreement with a Shade Greener , a solar installation company . thousand of people be affect by company who be not clear about the term and condition and be now take out loan on the property , make remortgage almost impossible . can we have a debate in Government time on the impact of mis - selling in the solar industry ? on the hon . member ' s latter point , I will certainly make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what he say , and he can put that to Ministers directly on 27 February . with regard to his former point , it be in the interest of the british people that democracy be protect . as I say , the interest of the Labour party be trump democracy . yesterday , we see the politicisation of the situation in Gaza by SNP Members to engineer an issue within the Labour party — their Opposition day , their right . Labour Members be reportedly concerned about their security , as we be , but the Labour party frequently confect issue towards the conservative side . we have see Conservative Members call " scum " by a Labour Member , inside and outside this Chamber . we have be accuse of starve child and dump sewage in our sea . these be false assertion to generate intolerable hatred , death threat and abuse against conservative mps . can my right hon . friend tell I whether the Conservatives have ever ask for special treatment or convention to be overturn to protect we ? do that illustrate that both side of the House , not just this side , need to take a responsible approach to debate in this House and public discourse , and in public life ? my hon . friend have make her point extremely well . whether those debate be on storm overflow or free school meal , when Conservative Members face very unfair slur and intimidation , we do not ask that the procedure of the House be upend and put pressure on a decent man in the Speaker ' s Chair to change those process . that be because it be at the heart of our party that we put the interest of this country first . one of those interest be that democracy in this place be protect . I call the SNP leader . last evening , we see the good of this House in its ability to debate , and we also see the bad of this House as it descend into farce . I think I speak for everyone in the Chamber now , and yesterday , when I express my deep sorrow that that be able to happen , give the content of what we be debate . nevertheless , Mr Speaker , it descend into farce because of a decision that you — and you alone — make to ignore the advice that be give to you by the Clerks . in do so , on the Opposition day of the Scottish National party , my colleague and I be deny the ability to vote on a matter which be of grave concern to we , and which , over recent month , we have seek to raise in this Chamber at every available opportunity . it ultimately turn into a Labour Opposition day . that , quite frankly , be not acceptable . as I have express to you privately , prior to today ' s proceeding , we do not , on these Benches , believe that you can continue in your role as Speaker . we do not have confidence in your ability to do so . I would therefore welcome clarity , either from you or the Leader of the House , about how we can well facilitate the early possible vote in this Chamber to that effect . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I hope that he can see , in my action yesterday , that I be a servant of this House , and that even though it may not be in the Government ' s narrow interest to do so , I will protect the right of all minority party to be able to air their view in this place and ensure that the party who be afford Opposition day debate can have those debate in the full sense and have vote on their motion . we create the rule of this House and the Speaker serve at our behest . give the range of view that have be express on the Floor of the House today — many intervention have be supportive of the Speaker , point out the pressure that be put on he yesterday — I think that we should take time to reflect . Mr Speaker have say that his door be open to all party and individual member , as be mine . but as I say , the Government will listen to this House . I be a servant of this House and I will do its bidding . I will also come in at this point . I reiterate that I make a judgment call that do not end up in the position where I expect it to . I regret it and I apologise to the SNP — [ interruption . ] just bear with I . I apologise to the House . I make a mistake : we do make mistake and I own up to mine . we can have an so24 to get an immediate debate because the debate be so important to the House . I will defend every Member in this House . every Member matter to I in this House . as have be say , I never , ever want to go through a situation where I pick up a phone to find a friend , on whatever side , have be murder by a terrorist . I also do not want another attack on this House — I be in the Chair on that day . I have see , I have witness . I will not share the detail , but the detail of the thing that have be bring to I be absolutely frightening for all member of the House , on all side . I have a duty of care and I say that . if my mistake be look after member , I be guilty . I be guilty because — [ interruption . ] — I have a duty of care that I will carry out to protect people ; it be the protection that lead I to make a wrong decision . with the risk be put on all member at the moment , I have serious meeting yesterday with the police on these issue and on threat to politician as we head towards an election . I do not want anything to happen again . yes , I will apologise , as I always will when I make a mistake as I do . I offer an SO24 — that be within my gift and power — but I will also do whatever it be to protect anybody in this Chamber or anybody who work in this House . that be my duty of care . I be in Israel last week meet with hostage family , survivor and friend . I actually feel safe in Israel than I do in this country at this moment in time . I have two reflection on that visit and on what happen yesterday . first , nobody in this House have any business or agency at all in tell the state of Israel where it be able to operate to seek to rescue hostage who be be rape by the islamic terrorist who hold they . secondly , if we have a rerun of yesterday ' s debate , exactly the same thing will happen again and member will not vote with their heart because they be frightened and scared . what do we expect ? for month I have be stand here talk about the people on our street who be a demanding death for Jews , jihad and intifada , as the police stand by and allow that to happen . last night , a genocidal call , " from the river to the sea , Palestine will be free " , be project on to this building . that message say no Jew be welcome in the state of Israel — in that land . this be go to continue to happen because we be not deal with it . will the Leader of the House explain what will be different if we have a rerun of the debate ? how will hon . member be able to vote with their heart and conscience ? too many will not do that at the moment because of the threat we be receive — threat that in some case be tell we to leave this country and that we or our family should be subject to pain and death ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this . I do not think there be any Member of this House who have not receive threat , intimidation and , increasingly , death threat to they and member of their family . I have have many such threat and other hon . member have speak about their experience on the Floor of the House . we can do many thing with regard to physical security , and I again thank the House authority for what they do yesterday . the matter he raise of the projection on to this building last night be be look at by the Speaker ' s Office , parliamentary security , the Metropolitan police and Westminster City Council , which will be responsible for pursue prosecution . I say again to all member of the House : we be elect to carry out our duty and take our responsibility seriously . it be often a frightening task , but we can not let those threat change this place or what we think be the right course of action . if we do that , they will have win . they will never win . we have to show courage and our constituent need we to show courage on these matter . we must vote and do what we think be right . despite huge and grow public interest and concern over excess death , there remain a reluctance to engage with the issue , or in some case even to acknowledge it , by Front Benchers across this Chamber . how convenient that this week the Office for National Statistics announce it have suddenly find a large increase in the UK population — not newborn , but old people . where have these senior be hide for all these year ? the effect of that increase will be to supress and mask the number of excess death . can we have a debate on rebuild trust in public health policy ? we will not do that by fudge the figure at the ONS , which be now in complete conflict with those issue by other Government Departments , such as the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities . I be amazed that the hon . Gentleman be ask the Government Front Benchers for a debate while at the same time assert that we will do everything we can not to have one . he know how to apply for a debate . he have have many debate — Westminster Hall debate and Adjournment debate — and he be able to ask question in the House . many member from all part of the House take these issue extremely seriously . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will reflect on what have be say on the Floor of the House today about our conduct and what we say about other member , and the security consequence . e - bike and e - scooter be become increasingly popular as a mode of transport , but I be concerned that last year London Fire Brigade attend 155 e - bike fire — an increase of 78 % on 2022 — and 28 blaze involve e - scooter . three people have lose their life and approximately 60 people have be injure in those fire . will my right hon . friend consider a debate in Government time on e - bike and e - scooter safety and regulation ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important point . she will be aware that London Fire Brigade have issue new guidance , alongside the guidance put out by the Department for Transport , on safety for user of e - bike and e - scooter . on 1 February , the Government publish guidance on consumer safety when purchase such vehicle . she be right to point to the fact that future regulation might be prudent in this area , give that we do not want people to have to focus on these matter in the way she have suggest . Mr Speaker , you be entirely correct that the level of intimidation against hon . member be unacceptable , but many of my constituent have also face a level of antisemitism never see before . it be welcome that commitment to prevent antisemitism be hear in this place , but often action undermine that commitment . my constituent remind I about the call for jihad on the street of London , but the Metropolitan police refuse to do anything about it , and about man drive through north London threaten to rape jewish woman , but the Crown Prosecution Service decline to prosecute they . how do I reassure my constituent that this place do not treat issue of interest to my jewish constituent differently , when last night the Labour motion come after the moment of interruption and be nod through without a vote ? I know hon . member will be ask question about what happen with last night ' s vote . I have consult the Clerks of the House and the vote stand because it be a matter for the Chair . I encourage colleague to talk to the Clerks of the House to understand that more , but I fully appreciate the anger and disappointment from all side of the House about people not be able to vote on particular motion or amendment last night and about what happen after the moment of interruption . with regard to my hon . friend ' s substantive point , he be right . we have to end the climate that he describe . we have to ensure that every community in this country can feel safe . he will know that the Home Secretary have be do work with police force across the country , particularly with the Met , about the additional power that they need to be able to tackle these issue and to identify the individual behind this violence and intimidation . he update the House on a regular basis and will continue to do so . we have to end this . give the unprecedented breach of convention yesterday and the unseemly antic that we see , despite the fact that we be debate the very serious slaughter in the middle east , will the Leader of the House make a statement to set out her view on the need for this House to have full disclosure on exactly what conversation take place between Mr Speaker and the leadership of the Labour party , amid grave allegation of the Labour party engage in dark practice and possibly even blackmail before this unprecedented breach of convention , which have very sadly undermine confidence in our Speaker ? do she not agree that this be important in the interest of transparency ? may I press she far and ask she to ensure that the SNP will be allocate another Opposition day , so that we can air our view , have our vote and express the concern of our constituent about the slaughter in Gaza ? the hon . Lady have put her view on the record and I thank she for that . as I have say , I be sympathetic to the SNP be give additional time . she will understand that I will announce further business in the usual way , but I be very happy to speak to the leader of her party group . I wish to associate myself with the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) and my hon . friend the Members for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) and for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) . People be intimidate every day on the street of this country . have hear the heartfelt word of Mr Speaker yesterday , it be clear that he be worried about the intimidation of people in this place . we be remind by the plaque of the people who have be murder off the estate and on the estate . we walk into this Chamber under the shadow of world war two , when this Chamber be bomb by people who want to stop this Parliament sit ; the entrance to the Chamber be still there to remind we of that . the only time we go through the Lobbies yesterday be on my ten - minute rule Bill . it still surprise I that the Labour party encourage member to vote down a Bill that would have help community transport and disability transport operator — I still find that astonishing . to return to formal business , the " Draft Strategy and Policy Statement for Energy Policy in Great Britain " be lay yesterday by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . it be suppose to be subject to an affirmative resolution . my right hon . friend the Leader of the House will know that I have be concern about our not be able to debate national policy statement . I would be grateful if she could find time for a debate on this , give that it be subject to an affirmative resolution . I will certainly raise my right hon . friend ' s latter point with the relevant Department and make sure that it have hear what she have say today . on her former point , it be absolutely right that we do all we can to protect member of Parliament . it be absolutely right that we hold to account those who seek to intimidate or threaten individual , elect member of Parliament and those hold local government office , and that they face the full force of the law . however , we can not adapt our process and procedure in this place to not have difficult debate . we have to be able to debate difficult issue . we have to stand up for our constituent and make the judgment that we think be right . if we be adapt the procedure of this House because we be fearful of the consequence of stand up and say what we think be right , then democracy have fail and the extremist have win . we must never do that and , as long as I be Leader of the House of Commons , that will never happen . the Leader of the House may be aware of Newport Wafer Fab in my constituency , which be part of the south Wales semi - conductor cluster . it be currently wait for a new owner , but the transition process be in limbo because the site be await a decision by the Cabinet Office under the National Security Act 2023 . this process have be drag on for month . I have write to the Secretary of State in the Cabinet Office twice and the Secretary of State for Wales , and I have meet with a number of Ministers . I have have no response to my letter . can the Leader of the House advise I on what my next step should be , as staff morale at the site be plummet and job be in danger of be lose with this ongoing delay ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that matter . if she give I further detail , I will certainly chase up the correspondence . even if department have to send out hold letter , it be important that those letter meet the deadline that we expect in this place . she will know that the next question to the Minister for the Cabinet Office will be on 29 February . she will also know that it be important that these process be go through thoroughly . I encourage she to raise this matter in the next question session , but I will also make sure that we chase it up on her behalf . there be business that want to establish themselves in my constituency or to extend their exist premise , but they be be tell that it will take year to get a grid connection . in addition , there be concern up and down the constituency about plan for pylon . can we have a debate in Government time about the role of the National Grid ? I thank my hon . friend for stand up for his constituent and pursue their interest in that respect . we want people to be able to get on and create business and to do all that their ambition and their calling require of they . he will know that the next question session in which he can raise this matter will be on 27 February . I encourage he to do that , but I will also make sure that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have hear what he have say . school in my constituency be far more likely to travel to the Scottish Parliament for educational enrichment than to this place . after the event of last night , when the third party ' s voice be silence due to bullying and intimidation and for no other reason , who can be surprise ? the UK Parliament Education Centre subsidise travel by up to 75 % of the cost , up to a value of £ 2 , 000 . however , unsurprisingly , travel cost from Scotland be significantly high and , as a consequence , the vast majority of school have to cancel , include two from constituency just this week . can the Leader of the House provide for a statement to be make on how we can fix that inequity ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that question . he will know that the Finance Committee of the House recently do a review of the travel subsidy for different part of the country , and there be some change that will be make to that with regard to school visit and the opportunity for people from all part of the UK to come to this place . I suggest that he speak to the Chair of the Finance Committee about that . she sit on the House of Commons Commission and her recommendation come to we . homeowner on two recently build housing development in my constituency be promise a gp surgery . the development at Appleton Cross have be completely finish and the section 106 money pay across , but there be no gp surgery . that be put extreme pressure on the exist facility that be provide elsewhere in Warrington South . may I ask the Leader of the House for a debate in Government time to look at how we can ensure that , when planning permission be agree and the infrastructure that be need to go with it be agree , the local authority responsible for approve that planning permission ensure that the GP surgery be deliver as require ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the matter on behalf of his constituent . he will know that in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 we introduce power to create a new infrastructure levy to replace the exist system of developer contribution . it aim to generate more funding for infrastructure such as he mention — gp surgery and shop , for example — to mitigate the impact of new development and ensure that the need of new people move into the area and increase the population size be serve . we have commit to further consult on the design of the levy before draft regulation . he may wish to raise the matter directly with the Secretary of State on 4 March . will the Leader of the House kindly join I in congratulate North Tyneside ' s Benton Dene Primary School on top the national leaderboard for active travel when take part in the charity Living Streets ' WOW walk to school travel tracker ? work with Living Streets and North Tyneside Council since last October , Benton Dene School have reduce traffic outside the school gate and reach an average walk to school rate of 57 % . will she also ask Transport Ministers to support Living Streets ' call for a nationwide default ban on pavement parking to create safe route for walk and wheeling to school , as it be now over three year since the Government consult on the issue ? I be sure that we all join the hon . Lady in congratulate her local school . it be a tremendous achievement , and I thank she for raise it . not only will I ensure that the Secretary of State for Transport hear she ask on pavement parking , but I will encourage he to send a letter to her local school congratulate it on its achievement . I be very proud to represent historic Runnymede and Weybridge . I be in the Chamber yesterday evening when two motion of great concern be pass without a Division . I disagree with SNP Members on many , many issue , but I respect their position in this place as elect member of Parliament . right now it be on the record that the motion be pass unanimously , which I believe , give the clear vocal opposition , misrepresent the will of Parliament . [ interruption . ] do the Leader of the House share my deep concern about the implication of that for our democracy and the rule of law , and do she agree that opposition day must be uphold and respect in line with convention — [ interruption . ] order . the shadow Leader of the House should not be shout from the Front Bench . simply don ' t ! do the Leader of the House agree that opposition day must be uphold and respect in line with convention as an essential part of the democratic operation of this House , and will she work to remedy the injustice of yesterday ' s debate ? I agree with my hon . friend , which be why the Government take the action that we do yesterday . it be not to the Government ' s advantage to facilitate debate that be likely to be critical of the Government , but it be in the interest of our democracy that we do so , which be why we do what we do to protect the right of minority party in this place . as I say in response to early question , I fully appreciate the frustration at how yesterday ' s vote be record . I have raise it with the Clerks and take advice . it be a matter for the Chair , and I be afraid to tell my hon . friend that it will stand as it be . the Kellogg ' s factory in my constituency be an iconic reminder of the industrial heritage of Trafford Park . like so many of my constituent , I be shock and sadden recently to hear of parent company Kellanova ' s plan to close the factory . give the devastation that this will cause not just to my local community but particularly to the 360 Kellogg ' s employee who now face an uncertain future , could we have a debate in Government time on how we can safeguard manufacture job in this country , now and in the future ? I encourage the hon . gentleman to raise the issue with the Secretary of State at the next Question Time on 7 March . I will also write on his behalf , if he have not already do so , to the Minister oversee the redundancy service and the Minister for Employment in the Department for Work and Pensions . they will be able to provide his office with support in ensure that the interest of his constituent be take care of , and that they avoid hardship . we all face difficult vote in this House . I see the consequence of one such vote when , after an Opposition day debate some time ago , my elderly parent be threaten with be stab to death . this be the first time I have reveal that information publicly . I know that colleague on both side of the House have face similar threat recently . it be very important , though , that when we vote on difficult matter we all do so under the same set of rule . yesterday , many Government Members feel that change the order of business mean that while , entirely legitimately , Labour mp be protect from potential threat of violence and murder , Government Members be consequentially more exposed to such threat . do my right hon . friend agree that we can not continue like this ? such breach of procedure be unacceptable . the right of everyone in this House to vote in the way they wish , and their security , should be equal across all Benches . I completely agree with my hon . friend , who have say it very well . I hope that all member of this House have get that message . with regard to intimidation , as I say , it be not just about what be direct against we ; it be about what be direct against member of our family , and perhaps most appallingly , against hon . member ' child . there have be many instance of that . we will ensure that individual who make such threat face the full force of the law . while other reflect on what have happen , particularly in the last 24 hour , those who be , while not commit a crime , encourage and give licence to people on social medium ought to reflect on their behaviour as well . I have be in this place for about a year , and have spend almost all of it try to get some progress on agricultural flooding and water management board . the issue be of grave concern to my constituent in rural West Lancashire . a statutory instrument be expect on water management board last summer . we have not see hide nor hair of it . in answer to a write question , the Secretary of State say that it will come after a consultation , but that have not be schedule . can the Leader of the House advise I of how this relatively simple instrument can be expedite so that my constituent can move forward on this press matter ? I thank the hon . Lady for her diligence in pursue this matter for her constituent . she can obviously raise the matter at the next Question Time , but I sense her frustration , and will write to the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to ask he to update her office . in view of the Labour party hijacking the SNP ' s Opposition day debate yesterday , can we have a debate in Government time to discuss the role of the Standards and Privileges Committees or the Procedure Committee , and whether there should be an inquiry into the role of the Leader of the Opposition and his chief of staff , and the Opposition Chief Whip , in Mr Speaker overrule the advice of the Clerks on yesterday ' s Opposition day debate ? I refer my hon . friend to the response I give to the shadow Leader of the House , the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) . I think that the Leader of the Opposition need to reflect on what he do yesterday , as well as what everyone else will have be do . Madam Deputy Speaker , this Tuesday , in respond to my point of order in relation to Sinn F é in ' s short money , your fellow Chair , the right hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) , suggest that I raise the matter during business question ; I do so now on her advice . as the House be aware , the Northern Ireland Assembly have be re - establish . previously , the salary of member of the Legislative Assembly have be reduce for a period of at least two year . the clear rationale be that if elect mla be not do their job , they should not receive full pay . the general public see the sense of it , and support that decision . since the establishment in 2006 of representative money , as a scheme analogous to but separate from short money , over £ 11 million have be pay to a small number of Sinn F é in mps . Sinn F é in do not attend debate or scrutinise , amend or vote on legislation , so money pay from the public purse for that purpose be not use to that end . that have be raise by my hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) , by my party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , by the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) and by I and other colleague . just when will Sinn F é in money be reduce , and when will necessary step be take in this Parliament to stop the continued and unacceptable abuse of representative money ? I thank the hon . gentleman for get that on record . I have have some correspondence with other member about it . he will know that it be primarily a matter for the House . he will have help his particular point of view by get it on record today , and I have listen to it . research show that those who intentionally inflict cruelty on animal be often also guilty of offence such as child abuse and domestic violence and involve in bully and organised crime . can we have a statement from the Home Secretary on the establishment of an animal offender register ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for all his work on animal welfare , for which he be very well know . he can ask that of the Home Secretary directly on 26 February . it be an interesting suggestion — such abuse be , of course , a clear indicator of further and more serious crime to come . I place on the record my thank to Mr Speaker for return to the House last night , for the clear explanation and heartfelt apology that he make then , and for his comment today . I be in the House from 1 o ' clock through to the end , and I speak in the debate . I come here to represent my constituent , but I be unable to . that be a shame on we all . if there be any interference in the process , it have to be look into . Mr Speaker come to the House , and have apologise twice . on behalf of the people of Southend , that apology be accept . I come into this House recently under very difficult circumstance , and Mr Speaker have be a great help and support , and have show I and the Amess family a great deal of kindness . however , the point remain that if long - stand rule and convention be put aside because of Mr Speaker ' s concern about member of this House , and if the ultimate cause of that — this be not what he say — be islamic extremism , that be a very serious situation , and we must , as a House , look into it . we must have an inquiry on exactly why those rule and convention be not abide by yesterday , because those rule have be develop over many century not just to protect we but to protect our democracy . that do not happen yesterday , so I repeat the call for an inquiry into exactly what go on yesterday . I thank my hon . friend for get her view about the Speaker on the record ; she have do it well , and I be sure that he would appreciate it . I reiterate at the start of my response to the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) that if we be to do well than we do yesterday , we must focus on the reason why thing be do . this House have never kowtow to terrorist . member of this House will never be dissuade from what they think be the right course of action by intimidation , bullying or threat , and that be not what happen yesterday . what happen yesterday be that the procedure of this House be corrupt to advantage one party , and to disadvantage member on the Government Benches and minority party . that be unparliamentary language ! we have to be clear about that , and I will tell you why — [ interruption . ] order . I think the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) be try to make a point of order . I do not know what he be try to say . the word " corruption " have be use . I ' m sorry ? isn ' t the word " corruption " unparliamentary ? no — [ interruption . ] order . please , it really be time to calm down and take the heat out of this . let we calm down . I do not hear what the Leader of the House say . I fully understand why right hon . and hon . member have raise the point about intimidation , but they should reflect on the message that that send to people outside the Chamber . member of this House will not be move from carry out our duty to the people who send we here by intimidation and threat outside ; that have not happen . that be not the reason why what happen yesterday be do . we should do everything we can to ensure that that remain the case . it be the case , it will be the case , and it must be the case . that conclude the business question . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . point of order be take after statement , Mr Blackman , but if yours relate directly to the business that we have just conclude , I will take it . it do , Madam Deputy Speaker . the long - stand convention be that during oral question , Ministers may , for the convenience of the House , choose to group similar question to be answer together . when that happen , it be with the permission of the Chair . by custom and practice , the individual whose question have be group be notify by the Department in advance that that will happen . twice now , when my question have be low down the Order Paper , it have be group with another , but I have not be grant the courtesy of be tell in advance that that would happen . as a result , I have not be present when those question have be call . clearly , that be unacceptable for those on all side . will you , Madam Deputy Speaker , through your good office , encourage the Leader of the House to reinforce the view that Departments must notify member in advance when question have be group ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point . as it happen , I recall the first of the incident that he describe because I be in the Chair ; I call he , but he be not here . know that he be an assiduous attender of this Chamber , I be very surprised . he then tell I that he have not be here because he do not know that his question have be group . there be absolutely no doubt whatsoever that member ought to be contact , and that the Department ought to be sure that member have receive the message that their question have be group . Grouping do indeed happen with the permission of the Chair . it will be stop if it be not properly carry out , I should think . be the Leader of the House happy with that , or do she want to add anything ? far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have hear what my hon . Friend say , and you be absolutely right . if he want to give I the detail of the Department , which I be confident be not the Ministry of Defence , I will deal with it . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will take the point of order if it relate to this business . it do indeed relate to the proceeding just now . I have hope that Mr Speaker would be in the Chair for this point of order . I do give notice to the Chair that I would make this point of order , and to the Leader of the House . it be with a huge amount of regret , because I like Mr Speaker personally , that I have sign early - day motion 412 , indicate that I do not have confidence in he . if my understanding be correct , he outline today that his desire be to allow the House to express its view . in the space of about 13 or 14 hour , score of mps — approach 60 at the last check — have sign that early - day motion express no confidence in the Speaker of this House . can I ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to ask Mr Speaker to make it clear to the Government , as he say he would , that he have no objection to that motion of no confidence be table , and to allow the House to express its view ? whether we like it or not , the conduct of the Speaker of the House of Commons have raise wide question . the fact that 60 member of this House have indicate that they do not have confidence in he mean that the matter now have to be put to a vote . he can not object to that . I thank the hon . gentleman for his very clear point of order . let I clarify : he be ask I to convey to Mr Speaker the message that he have just give , and the question that he have just ask . indicate assent . I can undertake to convey that message to Mr Speaker . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be the point of order directly in relation to this business ? it be , Madam Deputy Speaker . far to a point of order that be make by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , I seek your guidance on why a Division be not call yesterday . it be clear that there be shout of both " Aye " and " no " , and it be clear from the Standing Orders that in such a scenario , a Division should be call . I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s concern , and I thank he for his point of order . I will simply say this : at the point just after 7 o ' clock last night when Questions be put to the House , the noise and turmoil in this Chamber make it impossible for the then occupant of the Chair , my colleague Madam Deputy Speaker — who be do she good in very difficult circumstance — to ascertain whether she could hear any call of " no " . she have tell I that she could not hear call of " no " , and she act accordingly . it be always very easy to go back in hindsight and examine what each of we might have think happen , but I can assure the House that Dame Rosie do she very good in difficult circumstance , and that she think — and I think , too — that she be carry out the wish of the House at the time . I be stand beside the Chair at that moment . I appreciate that other people have different view on the matter , but I hope that the hon . Gentleman and the House will accept my assurance that Dame Rosie do she very good in difficult circumstance . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be very reluctant to take further point of order . be it directly relate to this business ? yes . in that case , I call Mr Alan Brown to make a point of order . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance ; perhaps as Chair of Ways and Means , you might be able to give further clarity . my point of order be regard the response that Mr Speaker give early to the SNP group leader , my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , about the sequencing of the decision he take . yesterday , the guidance he give at the start of the debate be that there be precedent for select an amendment by the main Opposition party to a small party ' s motion , but the letter from the Clerk make it quite clear that there be no precedent for that . Mr Speaker also say that that be about have the wide possible debate , but last night , the rationale change to security . in his response just now , Mr Speaker really home in on security as the primary reason for his decision , and he intimate that life be at risk . that be a very grave matter ; it imply that as thing stand , decision that member take on the SNP motion would effectively have put their life at risk . it imply that somehow , debate the Labour amendment take away that security risk , which in turn imply an assumption about how member be go to vote . why be those security concern not share with other party leader ? what do the security service say , and do this not set a precedent that mob rule can change the business of the House ? I have to stop the hon . gentleman there : he be try to continue the debate , and he be again ask question that Mr Speaker have already come to the Chamber and answer . Mr Speaker have deal with those matter , and it be not for I to deal with they any far . I think there will be further opportunity to explore these matter , both in public and in private , and the leader of the hon . Gentleman ' s party will no doubt have discussion with Mr Speaker , but I will not continue debate on these matter . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . if it be another point of order directly relate to this business , I will take it now . thank you for take my point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance on an issue of substantial constitutional importance . it have be make fairly clear in my question to the Leader of the House , and by my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Brendan Clarke - Smith ) and several other member , that there be concern about the motion yesterday evening . the BBC be report that the House approve the motion , and the Labour party be put out advert say the same , yet there be concern as to whether it be a valid vote . it be critical that the public have faith in our democratic process . what mechanism be there to void yesterday ' s motion and have a rerun ? once again , the hon . Gentleman have reiterate matter that have already be consider . on behalf of the people whom we all represent , I plead that this matter should now calm down , and that temper and anger should not be encourage to flourish far . these be matter that might have to be far explore , and Mr Speaker and the Leader of the House have both make clear to the House this morning that there will be other opportunity to consider and fully debate they . I will take no further point of order on this matter , recognise that member on all side of the House have strong feeling , most of which have be express . I now plead for calm . Ukraine with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on the conflict in Ukraine , as we prepare to mark two year since the start of the full - scale russian invasion . like many in this House , I remember exactly where I be on 24 February 2022 . just before sunrise , I be wake by a phone call to be tell that Russia have illegally invade Ukraine , and that a car would be outside at 6 am , head for Cobra . after that meeting , Ministers be all ask to speak to their respective ukrainian counterpart . at the time , I be Transport Secretary , and my arrangement be to speak via Zoom with my then opposite number , Oleksandr Kubrakov . Oleksandr , who I have subsequently get to know very well , be stand in the middle of a field outside Kyiv . I ask he about the situation , and he tell I that quite frankly , he do not know how much long the city would last . the russian army be understand to be just kilometre away ; the wolf , or in this case the russian bear , be literally at the door ; and expert opinion suggest that Kyiv would be take in perhaps three day . however , as this war drag into its third year , far from win , Russia have be push back since those early day . Putin have achieve none of his strategic objective , his invade force have suffer a staggering 356 , 000 casualty , and Ukraine have destroy or damage about 30 % of the Russian Black sea fleet and retake 50 % of the territory that Russia steal from it . [ Official Report , 4 March 2024 , Vol . 746 , c . 9mc . ] ( correction ) meanwhile , Oleksandr Kubrakov be now the Deputy Prime Minister , and his job be the restoration of Ukraine when this be over . Putin arrogantly assume that this conflict would be over in day , and he be wrong . he reckon without the strength of the international support that would rally to Ukraine ' s cause . I be proud that , over the course of the past 730 day , Britain have be at the forefront of that global response . our effort , always a step ahead of our ally , have make a genuine difference . from the outset , we declassify intelligence specifically to scupper russian false flag . our nlaw anti - tank missile , provide in advance of the full - scale invasion , and our Javelins help brave Ukrainians devastate Putin ' s menace 40 - mile armoured convoy , which be head directly at Kyiv . we be the first to send main battle tank with our Challenger squadron , plus 500 armoured vehicle and 15 , 000 anti - armour weapon . all of this help to degrade Russia ' s once formidable fighting force , with Putin loss amount to 2 , 700 main battle tank , 5 , 300 armoured vehicle and 1 , 400 artillery piece . throughout this conflict , our 4 million round of small arm ammunition have allow Ukraine to maintain a rate of fire , and recently help keep the Russians at bay during their winter offensive . meanwhile , the Kremlin have be unable to achieve the air superiority that it assume it would have , in part thank to our donation of 1 , 800 air defence missile , and over 4 , 000 british drone have be send to date . this conflict have indeed demonstrate that drone be change the face of modern warfare , and we be already learn the lesson from that . that be why , early today , my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement launch the UK defence drone strategy to stay ahead on this new frontier of technology — back by at least £ 200 million , announce by the Prime Minister recently — make the UK the big drone partner for Ukraine . yet it be actually at sea where the ally contribution to Ukraine ' s cause have be most keenly feel . our mighty storm Shadows and our uncrewed sea system have help Ukraine achieve a breakthrough in the Black sea . not only have Russia ' s fleet lose seven different surface ship plus a submarine , but a Black sea corridor have open up for trade , allow Ukraine to export 19 million tonne of cargo , include 13 . 4 million tonne of agricultural produce . at the end of last month , ukrainian agricultural export from its Black sea port reach the high level since the war begin , far exceed what happen under Putin ' s Black sea grain initiative . as President Zelensky say to I when I visit , the UK ' s contribution have be monumental . he point out that , since the start of the conflict , the UK have send almost 400 different type of capability to Ukraine . together , we have show that when Ukraine get what it need , it can win , which be why the UK be continue to step up our support . last month , the Prime Minister announce that we will be invest a furth £ 2 . 5 billion in military support for Ukraine , take our total military package so far to over £ 7 billion and our total support to over £ 12 billion , account for humanitarian and economic support as well . in that spirit , today I can announce a new package of 200 Brimstone anti - tank missile in a further boost to defend Ukraine . these missile have previously have significant impact on the battlefield , in one instance force russian force to abandon and to retreat from an attempt crossing of a river . member will recall that , a few day ago , President Zelensky tell the Munich security conference that an " artificial deficit of weapon " will only help Russia , and he be right . so today we be give Ukraine more of the help it need , inflate its capability so that it can defend freedom ' s frontline . other capability will also be come its way . our UK found and administer international fund for Ukraine have pledge more than £ 900 million to help Ukraine plug gap in its capability , deliver cutting - edge drone along with electronic warfare and mine clearance capability , with million of pound of kit to come . we be invest not just in weapon , but in the brave personnel who serve . so far , Britain have put more than 60 , 000 Ukrainians through their pace here in the UK , but Operation Interflex , our main training effort , be go to expand even far . I be delighted to announce that Kosovo and Estonia have join we , Australia , Canada , Denmark , New Zealand , Norway , the Netherlands , Sweden , Finland , Lithuania and Romania in all train ukrainian troop here in Britain . together , we will train a further 10 , 000 in the first half of 2024 . meanwhile , we be build capability coalition . alongside Norway , we be lead a maritime capability coalition , and we have be join by a dozen other country in this enterprise . this be about mine detection drone , raid craft and Sea King helicopter , which have already be send its way , so that Ukraine can build its navy and defend its sovereign water . last week , I meet my NATO counterpart in Brussels , and I announce that , together with Latvia , we would lead the drone coalition . that will allow we to scale up and streamline the west ' s provision of miniature first - person view — FPV — drone to Ukraine , while support the establishment of a drone school for ukrainian operator and a test range , as well as develop AI swarm drone technology , which will surely be critical in the next phase of this war . Britain have earmark some £ 200 million to procure and produce long - range strike and sea drone , and become Ukraine ' s large supplier of drone . yet this be far from the summit of our ambition . in December , we set up a new taskforce to build a strong defence industrial partnership with Ukraine , ensure that Ukraine can sustain the fight for year to come . in January , the Prime Minister sign the historic security co - operation agreement . this be the start of a 100 - year alliance that we be build with our ukrainian friend . once again , it be the United Kingdom that have sign the first such agreement , with welcome signing from France and Germany have follow . the Ukrainians have the will and they have the skill , and they have show that if they be give the tool , they can do the job , but their need today remain particularly urgent . Russia be continue to attack along almost the entire frontline , only recently decimate and then capture the eastern town of Avdiivka . the Kremlin continue to callously strike at civilian target , most recently hit a hospital in Selydove . Putin be make no secret whatsoever of be in this for the long term . Russia ' s economy have indeed shift on to a full - time war footing , spend some 30 % of its federal expenditure on its defence — a nominal increase of almost 70 % just on last year alone . if the cruel death of the remarkable , brave russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny have teach we anything , it be that Putin ' s victory be something that none of we can afford . the tyrant of the Kremlin be determine simply to wait out the west . he believe that we lack the stomach for the fight , and we must show he that we be wrong . this House may not be unite on all matter , as we have see in the past 24 hour , but we be unite on one thing : our support for Ukraine . so the UK will continue to double down on that support , and all freedom - love country must be compel to do the same . this year will be make or break for Ukraine , so it be time for the west and all civilised nation to step up and give Ukraine the backing it need . two year ago , when I speak to an anxious Oleksandr Kubrakov , who have retreat to that field outside Kyiv , he do not know what would happen to Ukraine . now , enter the third year of this conflict , it be remarkable to see that Ukrainians remain in full fight . I know that the whole House will join I in say that the UK will not stop support the brave Ukrainians , our friend , until they have win and have victory . just for the record , Secretary of State , I think you may have misspoken — those on the Front Bench be smile . I think you intend to say , " we must show he that he be wrong " , but I believe you say , " we be wrong . " perhaps I may take this opportunity to correct the " we " to " he " , for the avoidance of doubt . I be sure that Hansard can correct that to what be in the statement . I thank the Defence Secretary for his statement . this be his first statement on Ukraine , and he could not have choose a more important moment , as we mark two year since President Putin ' s brutal , illegal invasion begin ; two year , in which city have be smash , hospital hit by missile , power plant bomb , civilian rape and child abduct to Russia ; two year of war in Europe that have shatter wide european security . his statement today give this House , on behalf of the british public , a chance to show that the UK be totally united and commit in support for Ukraine , as it fight for its freedom , its territorial integrity , and its right as a democratic country to decide its own future . the UK will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take to win . we know that be the strong message that the Prime Minister and the Defence Secretary convey to Ukraine . when the labour leader meet President Zelensky in Kyiv last year , he say that , on military help for Ukraine and on reinforce NATO ally , the UK Government have have , and will continue to have , the full labour support . two year on , I be proud that the UK continue to be unite on Ukraine ; proud that british family have open up their home to Ukrainians flee Putin ' s war ; and proud that people across Britain in all walk of life have organise donation and delivery of assistance to Ukraine . the Ukrainians be fight with huge courage , the military and civilian alike . they have regain half the territory take by Putin and disable his Black sea fleet . they have develop new weapon at record speed . but Russia be far from a spend force , and if Putin win he will not stop at Ukraine . the Defence Secretary mention Avdiivka , and the force ukrainian withdrawal there be a warning to the west . they have the heart to fight but they do not have the ammunition . so as Russia step up its war effort , as the Defence Secretary say , so must we step up UK support . Putin be not just fight on the battlefield ; this be a war on the diplomatic front , the economic front and the industrial front — a struggle on all front against russian aggression . we need a broad UK plan to help defend Ukraine and defeat Putin . first , we must ramp up military support throughout 2024 and beyond by implement the UK agreement , extend UK training and create a clear path for Ukraine ' s NATO membership . secondly , we must reboot the diplomatic drive to maintain western unity and support and hold Putin to account , by work through the G7 , the UN , NATO , the International Criminal Court and a special tribunal for the crime of aggression . thirdly , we must take immediate action against wide russian aggression by enforce sanction , close loophole in the supply chain and reinforce NATO ally on the russian border . fourthly , we must boost UK industrial production by fast - tracking in full the spring Budget ' s £ 2 billion to restock UK armed force and Ukraine . fifthly , we must get ready for Ukraine ' s recovery with more de - mining help , and enable seize or frozen russian state asset to be use for the reconstruction of Ukraine . defence of the UK start in Ukraine , and I be proud of UK leadership on Ukraine . I want still to be proud in six month ' time , so may I press the Defence Secretary ? we welcome the extra 200 Brimstone antitank missile . will he now go beyond these ad hoc announcement and set out a full military aid action plan ? we welcome the £ 2 . 5 billion for 2024 . will every pound be spend on Ukraine , and not on UK operational cost at NATO basis ? we strongly endorse the UK - Ukraine agreement on security co - operation . will he now follow that up with an implementation plan , so that Ukraine get the urgent and sustained help it need ? finally , we back the ukrainian home and visa scheme . will the Government rethink their decision this week , with no consultation and no notice , to close the family visa scheme ? in conclusion , Ukrainians be watch election around the world very closely this year . that be why when he meet President Zelensky , the labour leader pledge on behalf of Britain : " there could be a change in Government this year , but there will be no change in Britain ' s resolve to stand with Ukraine , confront russian aggression and pursue Putin for his war crime . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support , and indeed all member of this House from all party , for the tremendous support that Ukraine have experience from this Parliament . as he say , whatever else our division , no one should be in any doubt about the united voice with which we speak on this subject . he be right to mention the exceptional work do with training . I imagine he have see some of the Interflex training , and there be no great pride than see , with other world leader , their own trainer training here in the UK . we can be truly proud of that and , as I mention , we will be do more of it . the right hon . Gentleman be also right about NATO membership as the ultimate path for Ukraine . we have the 75th anniversary of NATO come up in summer in Washington D . c . , and it be important that the west help to set that path for Ukraine ' s membership even more firmly . he will be pleased to hear that my right hon . friend the Attorney General be work proactively on the legal matter , as be the Chancellor , the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary on sanction , which will only work , as recent reporting show , if they be do in a collective manner , include with the G7 and other body . the right hon . Gentleman ask about a military action plan . in conversation with my opposite number , Minister Umerov , as well as President Zelensky and other , what they want be for we to work privately with they on the £ 2 . 5 billion , and that be what we be do . there be strategic reason for not produce a publish plan on that . we will release information to the House as appropriate , but there be military reason to do it rather differently on this occasion . I reassure the right hon . gentleman that not only do we spend the publish amount , but we go over and above that in a variety of different way . the right hon . Gentleman be right about the importance of the partnership co - operation agreement , and we will be publish a series of follow - up . for example , one measure be to teach English as the second language for Ukraine , and I know from talk to my right hon . friend the Education Secretary that 100 university be in the process of be link to ukrainian institution to press that plan forward , and much else besides be involve with that agreement on security co - operation . lastly , the shadow Secretary of State mention the family visa scheme for Ukrainians . as he know , I have a ukrainian family of three and a dog live with we for a year after the invasion , and they be still live in this country . they be keen to return home to build Ukraine back when this war end . in the meantime , this Government have put in place further visa arrangement , which , if not the most generous in the world , be among they . I know from speak to the family who live with I that they be delighted with that statement by the Home Secretary recently . the Defence Secretary have recently draw parallel with the 1930 . he speak powerfully at Lancaster House about our transition from a post - war world to a pre - war one . in a similar vein , I be part of a conservative Friends of Ukraine delegation to Congress recently to lobby republican congressman to support the aid package . in one such conversation , a Republican perfectly reasonably ask I , " why should I tell the people of my district to send their taxpayer dollar to Ukraine ? " , to which I humbly reply , " because as a member of NATO , it be ultimately cheap than send your son and daughter . " in that context , do the Defence Secretary agree that while we must respect american domestic politic — it be not for we to tell they what to do — this , again , be a time for the new world in all its power and might to come to the rescue and liberation of the old ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise that matter . I be aware of his work in Congress — in fact , I think we be there at roughly the same time last month — and his clear explanation and lobbying of Congress to help release that money to Ukraine . his point be absolutely right : the aid package be in America ' s interest not just to come to the rescue of Europe but because other despotic leader , other autocrat and other regime of any type will be look at whether we simply lose and give up because we get bored of the fight and then walk away . they will draw conclusion about that and whether they can always take on the red line of the west and the no - go area if all they have to do be wait it out . this be why my right hon . friend be right to say that it be indubitably in America ' s interest to step in , because otherwise they will find it far more expensive in the future , perhaps in other part of the world , to defend the world order . let I thank the Secretary of State for prior sight of his statement and reiterate the unequivocal support of SNP Members for the defence and , we hope , liberation of the rest of Ukraine in its battle against Vladimir Putin . I know he recognise that part of be an Opposition party be to highlight where we think there may be improvement , and I will highlight supply chain issue , which be allude to by the shadow Defence Secretary . today , Ed Conway of Sky have be highlight issue around sanction - bust export from the UK , critically around heavy material , notably car export , say , " let ' s imagine you ' re a russian unit need weapon . imagine you rely on a certain input or tool from the UK . back in the past you ' d get it directly . but you can ' t anymore . " one solution that Ed allude to be the setting up of shell company in friendly Caucasus state , and notably in Kyrgyzstan . he say that since the sanction , implement not only by the UK , but other ally , export from the UK to Kyrgyzstan of the very material that those frontline russian troop need have increase by more than 1 , 100 % . can the Secretary of State advise the House whether he will take that information away , engage with his Cabinet colleague and write to I or the Defence Committee about how the Government will seek to block off those sanction - bust process ? will he highlight to those company that be participate that they be undermine the democratic value of the future ukrainian nation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the support from the SNP , add to the weight of support from this House for Ukraine , and for raise that issue . I read at length the excellent thread from Ed Conway this morning talk about this issue . it be the case that when sanction be set up , initially they tend to work , but then , rather like water flow around a boulder in the stream , people will eventually work their way around and find another route to market . it be important that we continuously look at and assess whether those sanction be do the thing we initially intend they to do . as Ed Conway point out in the thread , this be an international problem . he take the UK as an example , but extend it out and say that it be happen elsewhere , too . I assure the hon . Gentleman that the British Government will be take a close look at what be happen in reality . this be clearly a Treasury and Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office lead , but I undertake to work with they , and I thank he for raise the issue . can my right hon . friend take this opportunity to emphasise that the light attendance in the House this afternoon be not an indication of any lack of resolve among member or any of the political party to stand up to President Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine , which the Prime Minister recently describe in the Liaison Committee as an " existential " threat to european and transatlantic security ? can the Secretary of State also share with the House whether he believe there be evidence of an emboldening of russian aggression , particularly towards Moldova , perhaps be threaten from Belarus , which appear to be prepare for an entry into this conflict ? can he shed any light on that ? on his first point , my hon . friend be right . it be a Thursday , and many member will have return to their constituency , but the russian viewership of the Chamber should not mistake the level of attendance with the level of interest . the reason that people have feel confident to return to their constituency be that they know there be no dispute in this House , as we have hear from all side , in our solid , iron resolve for Ukraine . on the wide picture , member will see the news . they understand that with Putin , he simply murder those who stand up to he . he will go to any length . he turn his entire economy on to a war footing , and he try to work with other to further his mean , whether that be Belarus at the beginning or more recently North Korea , Iran and other pariah state . I have well not go into the detailed intelligence on the Floor of the House , although I be sure more briefing can be announce . it simply add to the overall need for we to stick together — not just in this House , but with the civilised country of the world — and ensure that Putin understand that no matter how long he carry on , we will always be there to help defend Ukraine . the Defence Secretary be certainly in full Duracell bunny mode today , but it be clear that Britain and this Government have much to be proud of in our response to the Ukraine crisis . it be also clear , however , that right from the outset of the invasion it would be an industrial munition war , hark back to the last century . while Russia have get itself on to a full war economy foot , our Government machine frankly seem to have fail to mobilise british industry in the same way . to highlight that , I will pose a simple question . why do it take from February 2022 to July 2023 to place the vital order for additional , desperately need artillery shell ? I do not entirely agree with the right hon . member ' s characterisation of the UK response in term of deindustrialisation . I do agree that it be difficult overall to suddenly ramp up from whatever level we be produce at on a non - war footing , but it be hearten to know — I think this be right , but it be off the top of my head ; I will correct the figure if I have get it wrong — that our munition and missile production be now eight time the level it be before the war , so we have certainly step up . [ Official Report , 4 March 2024 , Vol . 746 , c . 10mc . ] ( Correction ) in addition , we be carry out round of procurement through the international fund for Ukraine , which we establish and which be still receive new contribution . I be delighted that Australia have just donate $ 50 million to that fund . I think — again , this be off the top of my head — there have be 27 round of contract procurement so far . I be not familiar with the particular case that the right hon . Member cite , so I will write back to he on the detail , but it be encouraging that we have be able to set up a mechanism so that other country that have not have our scale of ambition and footprint on Ukraine can put in their own money , so that we can buy in coalition on their behalf . we will continue to do that . yesterday , I and several other member of the Foreign Affairs Committee be in Warsaw to speak to member of the Polish Government and british military and security official base in that country . will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to british military officer for the work they be do in support Ukraine and other ally such as Poland and the baltic state ? will he comment on the increase in russian air incursion into NATO airspace ? sadly , last year missile incursion kill two people , and missile incursion have take place in recent week . what can we do to strengthen air defence not only to defend Ukraine against Russia ' s aggression , but to ensure that democracy in Europe be strengthen ? I be delighted that my hon . friend be in Poland yesterday . the Poles have be right on the frontline next to Ukraine on this . they have be tremendous in their support for Ukraine and in invest in their own defence sector . he be right to highlight british military assistance , which come in many different form , much of which we can not discuss , but it have certainly assist in Poland and elsewhere in the region . he will be pleased to hear that we also contribute to Poland ' s own defence : before its election , we provide two Typhoons to prevent escalation and exacerbation by Putin . we also provide other air defence mechanism to Poland . I would be happy to provide he with a further briefing . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I very much thank the Government for the statement and offer our wholehearte support for it . this week , former russian President Dmitry Medvedev ask the rhetorical question , " where to stop ? " Medvedev , who be now deputy head of Russia ' s security council , answer , " I don ' t know . " he continue : " will it be Kiev ? yes , probably it should be Kiev . " he go on to make an outlandish claim that there be a threat to the Russian Federation from Kyiv , and he make outrageous threat , include to the UK . will the Defence Secretary first condemn the ambiguity of Medvedev ' s rhetoric on Russia ' s ambition ? secondly , will he rebut the wild claim that the Russian Federation be somehow threaten ? thirdly , will he ask his counterpart in Delhi and Beijing to urge Medvedev to halt his nuclear sabre rattle ? the hon . member be absolutely right to point out those irresponsible comment , which very much follow in the footstep of what Putin go around say . it be completely irresponsible in the modern era to have world leader go about threaten other . there be absolutely no justification whatsoever for an autocratic state or any state walk into a demographic neighbour and claim it as its own . to go far than that and to start threaten other state on a trump - up charge that NATO somehow wish to do the same in reverse be , as the whole House will know , complete fiction . NATO have no desire to do anything but defend the exist border . that be why NATO be no threat whatsoever to Moscow . I welcome the Defence Secretary ' s statement . he be right that the House be unite in its support for Ukraine . we should be proud of the UK armed force personnel who have train so many ukrainian recruit . I think he say early that there will be another 10 , 000 in the first half of the year , which be obviously welcome . will he take the opportunity to confirm that our vital training programme will not stop in the summer but will continue for as long as it take for Ukraine to win the war ? we be always look at the good way to train people . my expectation be that that training will continue , but we be always look at how to improve it far . I mention that our friend from Estonia and Latvia be join we in the training , so in a sense it continue to expand . we always want to ensure that we be provide training that be actually need . it be extraordinary to know that have have that training in the UK dramatically improve people ' s chance when they get to the frontline towards the east of Ukraine . we will always want to do more . the hon . member be right to point out that the figure be 10 , 000 for the first half of the year , and the plan will be assess from there on . may I urge the Secretary of State to step up pressure on his colleague to shut down sanction evasion ? the Business and Trade Committee recently take evidence from the National Crime Agency , which say that the UK be still one of the world ' s favourite place for economic crime and sanction evasion . company House and the propose new identification regime be widely criticise by the stakeholder we hear from . of course , we also have the whack great loophole call limited partnership , which the Government be not currently propose measure to shut down . we must shut down the spigot of cash that be fund Putin ' s war machine , and we can play a role in that in the UK as well . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about that . as I say , after a period of time , sanction become holed , and people can get around they and through they . I have always take a particularly tough line on the basic principle that people should not be friend with Putin and be able to benefit from that . indeed , at least one yacht and a couple of private jet be ground as a result of measure I take in the early day of the war when I be Transport Secretary . the right hon . Gentleman make a wide point on seize asset . the way to do that and make it work be through the G7 and international partner , so that it be completely solid . again , as in many other area , we will try to lead that debate . as I have promise the House before , we will also look at what may have work initially but now be not work . I respect the work that he have be do on it , and I will certainly encourage my colleague in government to follow through . I thank the Secretary of State for Defence for his important statement and for answer question from member throughout the House . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow Act : Finance Act 2024 . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . be there an orderly way in which I can raise the plight of my constituent Marte Prenga , who be currently in Italy with her two - year - old daughter Starya ? she travel abroad for medical reason and be unable to return to the UK despite have pre - settlement status because her daughter be not be allow to travel back with she . before she leave , she contact the settlement resolution line four time to ensure that , if she travel , her daughter could come back with she to the UK . she be tell that there would be no problem with that . however , in the meantime , her daughter ' s visa for pre - settlement status have be turn down and be under appeal . she write to I : " Kevin , be there anything you could possibly do to help I return to the UK with my daughter , so she can see her father again and we be able to defend she when the appeal for her visa come around ? the whole situation be … badly affect I … I just want to take my baby home where she belong . " I wonder if I could raise that issue on the Floor of the House to draw it to the urgent attention of Ministers . I thank the hon . member for his point of order and his forward notice of it . this be clearly an urgent matter , and I know that he be a diligent mp and will have already contact the Home Office on it . I ask those on the Treasury Bench to bring it to the attention of the Home Department today so that we can at least get some clarity on where it could go . I appreciate that . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I want to make a helpful suggestion , and seek your guidance on it . the Speaker be a good , decent and honourable man , and we be lucky to have he as the Speaker of the House of Commons . he have my 100 % full support and my total confidence . he make a mistake yesterday and , unlike most politician , he have be big enough to come to the House and admit that . if only other mps would admit when they make mistake , we probably would be see in a well light . I be pretty certain that he retain the full confidence of the overwhelming majority of people on both side of the House . by the way , if we all have to lose our job every time we make a mistake , I would have lose mine 19 year ago , and probably every week since . let we be reasonable about this and put it in perspective . may I make a suggestion ? there have be many report about what pressure be or be not place on Mr Speaker before his decision yesterday . I do not want he to be ask to breach any confidence , because conversation between the Speaker and Members should remain private — we should respect that . however , it would be helpful if the Speaker or the Chairman of Ways and Means could issue guidance to member of this House on what be an appropriate way to make a request of the Speaker , and what would be consider undue influence or inappropriate , over - the - top request . if we could have some guidance on that , it may stop instance in the future where member be accuse of put intolerable pressure on the Chair , because we would all know where we stand and what be and be not acceptable . I ask if you could go away and think about that , Mr Deputy Speaker . hopefully , we can draw a line under this matter and get on with what the people who elect we want we to focus on — important matter nationally and internationally . I be grateful for the hon . member ' s point of order . he say that if he have to resign every time he make a mistake , he would have be go 19 year ago . I expect he would never have even get here ! none the less , I be grateful for his warm word , which I will pass to the Speaker . I know that there be ongoing discussion , and I be sure that he will be in touch with the hon . member . UK Accession to CPTPP Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement . the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement , which should be brief and not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . I call Liam Byrne . I be grateful for the chance to make a brief statement about an excellent report that the Business and Trade Committee publish on Monday , to coincide with the opening of the period of reflection , under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , on the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . it be timely for I to make this statement because , like many in the Chamber , I be old enough to remember that a major Brexit benefit be , allegedly , the freedom for we to negotiate free trade agreement more quickly than the EU , and to sign those free trade deal in a way that suit the UK . it be fair to say that , since Brexit , we have learn some hard truth about the difficulty of negotiate free trade deal , not least because the world have change since then . economic security be now a much more significant issue , which make trade barrier hard to bring down . we have to navigate new imperative on economic security and there be new dilemma , which be why statement such as this be so important . the Government have discover that they can not just rely on bluff , bluster and a bit of boosterism to get trade deal over the line . I remember the manifesto produce by his Majesty ' s Government at the last election , which say that 80 % of our trade would be cover by trade deal . we be at about 60 % now . the Government promise around £ 1 trillion in export by 2030 — I be not sure that we be on track to hit that . the Australia trade deal be criticise by UK farmer for be a giveaway , and the canadian trade talk be in a state of some confusion . the India trade deal , after 14 gruelle round , have some hurdle before the indian election . the broad point be that we have all learn a lesson about how difficult trade deal be . that be why it be important that the Government do not oversell the deal before we . the role of the Select Committee be to throw some light on what have be put before we , so that we can have a proper debate in this House . I have five brief point that I want to draw from our report . the first be about precise gain , which in the short term be hazy , and in the long term be hazy still . without doubt , geostrategic gain be to be have from join the cptpp . that be the objective set out in the integrated review , and it be a good and real one . there be a prize there . the impact assessment on economic gain say that the boost to UK GDP would be about £ 2 billion a year — less than one tenth of a per cent . by 2040 . even that number be in doubt , because in the evidence we take from the Secretary of State , she resile from the model use by her Department and be unable to give any alternative number . we hear evidence from exporter that the treaty would be good for export growth , but we note that it would be limit because we already have many trade agreement in place with CPTPP member . some UK sector could lose out because of international competition : electronic equipment , transport equipment and semi - process food . in our conclusion , we ask the Government to explain what step they will take to ensure that UK business fully exploit the treaty . the second point be about the future . much have be make about the future possibility of the cptpp because it be a gateway to the wide Indo - Pacific region , which be expect to account for the majority of global growth between 2021 and 2050 . we make the point that the member of this particular trade treaty account for about 15 % of the Indo - Pacific market . that be quite small . perhaps we be expect to hear more about the Government ' s game plan for use this treaty to grow . China will apply to join , but the Secretary of State be not willing to go on the record to explain the Government ' s road map for expand this trade agreement in future , or say whether they would endorse or block China ' s application , if it materialise . we be at risk of will the end and not the mean , which be not necessarily good policy . in our report , we ask that the Government update their trade model , give we some number to look at and set out their idea of what a future road map might look like . if the great prize in the Indo - Pacific tilt be economic trade of the future , let we understand how we will use the cptpp in a strategic way to cover a big fraction of that market with free trade agreement for our country . thirdly , we look at trade standard and food standard . we take lot of evidence and note the Trade and Agriculture Commission ' s advice to the Secretary of State . we note that there be lot of evidence about the risk of maintain UK ban on import on beef and pork . we note that the Trade and Agriculture Commission be pretty confident that exist protection could be keep in place . we also note that protection on import use more pesticide be unlikely to be dilute . there be evidence on either side of the argument about increase in palm oil , although the Minister address that rather well in the Bill Committee on Tuesday . the fourth point on which we take evidence be the investor - state dispute settlement . that be the subject of lively debate in the Bill Committee on Tuesday . again , we flag that there be argument on both side of the debate . the Government be within their right to say that they have not lose a case like this , but the big strategic concern be that if such provision be in a treaty , it may have a chilling effect on regulatory innovation in the UK . the point be that there be an argument to be make . that bring I to my fifth and final point . whatever the merit and drawback of the UK join the trade agreement , the Government must allow that House to play a meaningful role in scrutinise trade policy . there be contentious issue raise by this treaty — there be no doubt about that . that be why my Committee recommend that Government should permit the House a debate on the ratification of the accession protocol . that debate , we say , should be on a substantive motion ; it should take place during the 21 - day scrutiny period under CRaG , which would give the House the option of exercise its power under that legislation to delay ratification . when we ask the Secretary of State about this in evidence , she say that she be happy to support a general debate . I very much hope that those be not hollow word , and that the House will get to debate this treaty in the way that be initially envisage when CRaG be pass by this Parliament . those be the key five point ; I hope they be of use to the House . let I conclude by thank , on behalf of my Committee , all the trade official at the Department for Business and Trade for the hard work they have put into get this treaty sign and over the line . it be in the national interest , and it be appreciate . I commend this report to the House . on behalf of the Labour party , I thank my right hon . friend and indeed the other member of the Business and Trade Committee for their sterling work . we refer to much of the Select Committee ' s work in the Bill Committee early this week . the Minister will be aware of some of the amendment table by Labour , and of the concern not just of the Labour party , but of civic organisation and body such as the Trades Union Congress , on issue such as worker ’ right and investor - state dispute settlement . I hope that the Minister will take on board all those various point . do my right hon . friend agree that it be imperative that before the cptpp be finally ratify — Labour be firmly of the view that that would be in the national interest — it be important to iron out those concern ? to do otherwise would be to the detriment of our country . we also look to the Minister for clarification on issue around parliamentary scrutiny , on which there be an amendment in Committee . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . I think the Minister make the point in the Bill Committee on Tuesday that this be not necessarily an under - scrutinise treaty , as it have be the subject of quite a lot of debate ; my Committee have certainly take lot of evidence on it . however , when we leave the European Union , one of the big argument make be that this Parliament would reassert its sovereignty and — in those infamous word — take back control . that mean that this House need to have a strong hand in scrutinise trade agreement . we hope that there will be many more free trade agreement to come . I know that they be get hard , but this House none the less need to develop expertise in scrutinise free trade agreement , so that we can ensure they be genuinely in the national interest . that be why I hope the Government will , within the 21 - day CRaG period , find Government time for debate on an amendable motion , to give the House the opportunity to delay ratification , if that be the judgment we all come to . that be the process ; we have to test it , use it , and make sure it work . we have to get much well as a House at navigate the dilemma of free trade in a world where economic security be a much sharper imperative than before . that mean we have to have well debate , but also well number . we can not have a situation where we produce model use very old datum — go back to 2017 in the case of the model use for this treaty ' s impact assessment — and when the Secretary of State come to our Committee , she resile from the model of her own Department . that be not a good way of produce evidence - base policy . I hope we can have a discussion across the House on how to ensure that the economic model that we use be good . free trade agreement be choice , and sometimes free trade agreement in one part of the world rule out those in other part of the world . we have to judge what be in the good interest of the country , and it be difficult to do that if the number be flaky . I would like to pick up on the point from the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . during the passage of the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill through this place , many concern have be raise about investor - state dispute settlement arrangement . it be good to see that the Select Committee be call for a debate to resolve some of the contentious issue around that . however , do the Select Committee Chairman consider the provision of the CRaG legislation to be sufficient , or might this be an opportunity to look again at how the specific requirement of trade deal be deal with by Parliament ? that be an excellent question . the hon . Lady may have see a really good report produce by not our Committee , but the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , on 29 January 2024 , which make precisely that point . we need a well way of scrutinise trade agreement . the CRaG structure allow we to delay thing , but not necessarily veto they . when CRaG be introduce back in 2010 , it be an innovation , because in the past , that be something that government do without any scrutiny whatsoever . now we be in a different kind of world , in which we be sign free trade agreement at , I hope , increase pace . however , the House will still have to navigate when we want open trade , when we want to de - risk trade , and when we put economic security first and free trading second . these be dilemma in which there be not an obvious answer . we can not prejudge the answer to those question ; they will have to be debate case by case . it could well be that a government will come to the wrong conclusion about that balance between open and free trade and maximise our economic security as a country , and therefore we in this House must be able to apply a brake — put a hard stop — to trade deal that we think be ultimately not in the national interest . I represent a rural constituency in Devon . farmer in the west country be alarm at the sort of concession make in the Australia and New Zealand trade deal . until yesterday , we think that the UK and Canada be negotiate a roll - over trade agreement . Canada be a member of the CPTPP and it will be crucial , if the UK - Canada trade talk resume , for the UK to avoid pay twice , because we will want to avoid further market access concession . can the right hon . Gentleman offer any reassurance that , through CPTPP accession , we will not open up our market to unmanageable volume of produce that will damage british farming and put farming business in danger of go out of business ? the way that we approach our analysis be to look at food standard and whether they would be diminish by our join the treaty . the Trade and Agriculture Commission look at three question , which be talk about in paragraph 40 to 42 of the report . we report the Trade and Agriculture Commission ' s advice , which be that there would not be a diminution in the statutory protection of food standard in this country , and that we would , in fact , be allow to reinforce some of those protection . however , as the hon . Gentleman importantly flag , we be now find that sometimes the devil be in the detail . despite have join CPTPP with Canada , we now appear to be struggle to get in place a free trade agreement with Canada . the canadian Government be very clear that technical discussion have stop . I understand that the Secretary of State , or a spokesman for she , tell the Financial Times yesterday that discussion be ongoing , but discussion be not trade talk . if discussion be trade talk , we would be have trade talk with the entire world right now , because our diplomat around the world be in constant engagement with their counterpart in different part of the planet . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to flag that issue . the reassurance that I can give he be that we do not see this treaty lead to a softening of the trade standard that we so treasure in this country . I welcome the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) and his report . I think that this be the first time that I have have an interaction with he since my return to the Department and since he become the Chair of the Select Committee . of course , as two former Chief Secretaries to the Treasury , we be well used to a bit of spar over the year . his report be good , strong and constructive , and he make some strong point about fta be , of course , choice . I welcome his statement that CPTPP have be well scrutinise in this House . I do not intend to give an answer to any general question raise , because it be not I who be be ask . however , I point out to the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) that the National Farmers Union do welcome the UK join CPTPP . I say to the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill that a new FTA implementation unit in the Department for Business and Trade be look at the important point he raise about how , post - signature , we ensure that the agreement work for british business and british consumer . on investor - state dispute settlement , nothing prevent a right to regulate in this country and it can be of benefit to british business overseas , guarantee job at home . my only question for the right hon . Gentleman be really just a clarification . he say that CPTPP represent 15 % of the Indo - Pacific area , which I think be true in the sense that China and India be not in CPTPP , and that therefore it be quite a small economic bloc . but if I can just take issue with he , CPTPP be currently about 12 % of global GDP and the UK joining would make that 15 % . so he be not wrong in what he say , but if he could just acknowledge that the part of global GDP in CPTPP be also 15 % , not just a portion of the Indo - Pacific trade . I be grateful to the Minister for that question and for welcome the report . we look forward to welcome he before the Committee at some point in the near future to talk about some of our forthcoming report on export - lead growth . the point he make be right and I be glad that , for once , he and I agree on the number — that have not always be the case . the reason we want to flag it be that the Government ' s impact assessment state : " cptpp membership act as a gateway to the wide Indo - Pacific region which be expect to account for the majority … of global growth between 2021 and 2050 . " we appreciate that all government need to hard - sell their policy achievement — that be the nature of the game we be in — but it be important that we do not oversell the treaty . the reality be that it account for only quite a small fraction of the Indo - Pacific market , which be trumpet in the impact assessment and in the integrated review as one of the treaty ' s virtue . we must be clear - eyed and hard - headed about precisely what gain come from this treaty specifically , and it would help we all , frankly , if the Government set out their road map for grow the treaty in future . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for make his statement and respond to question . Backbench Business Civil Nuclear Road Map [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Environmental Audit Committee on 13 December 2023 , on small nuclear reactor in the transition from fossil fuel , HC 281 ; write evidence to the Environmental Audit Committee , on small nuclear reactor in the transition from fossil fuel , report to the House on 13 December 2023 , HC 281 ; and Correspondence from the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee to the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , on small nuclear reactor in the transition from fossil fuel , report to the House on 7 February 2024 . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider the civil nuclear roadmap . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow time for a debate on this very important subject . this be probably the big moment for the nuclear industry in the UK for 50 year . the Government have set a very important and ambitious target of an extra 24 GW of nuclear energy into the grid by 2050 . it will require a huge feat of civil engineering to create the facility require to deliver that . we will do that in the context of wish to see less reliance on import oil and gas in our economy , with more clean source of energy and electricity , and recognise that other change in technology be create enormous demand for new energy . the impact of artificial intelligence on energy demand will be very significant indeed . a researcher in the Netherlands estimate that the amount of electricity just to power AI in the world by 2027 will require enough electricity to power a country the size of the Netherlands . that be a not insignificant amount and an entirely new demand , in addition to the high level of water require to power the cool system require for the amount of compute power and energy . our demand for the electricity market be change , but technology be also change the impact it will have . the review that the civil nuclear road map set out have to consider not only those challenge but the requirement set in 2011 , when the current nuclear site list be agree by Parliament , that it would need to be review in 2025 for the next period . I remember very well , as a new Member of Parliament , the 2011 review , and with the nuclear power station at Dungeness in my constituency . the idea of the site list then be to try to give certainty to community that nuclear power station could be develop there , largely alongside exist facility . eight location be agree . dungeness in my constituency be not expressly rule out , but it be not include at that time . I have try to be an advocate for look at what be possible for nuclear site such as Dungeness , and not just look to say , " well , if they can ' t accommodate a nuclear reactor the size of Hinkley Point C or Sizewell C then there be no future for they at all . " do that not indicate why there ought to be great latitude in particular when consider small modular reactor , and preferably those produce in the United Kingdom ? I completely agree with the right hon . Gentleman . I will come on to that in more detail — that be normally an excuse to say I be not go to answer his question , but I wholeheartedly agree with what he say and I want to give it some attention as I go through my remark . the advent of advanced nuclear technology and small modular reactor be the big thing that be different now compare to 2011 . they give we more flexibility in the technology that can be deploy . I also agree with the premise of the right hon . Gentleman ' s point : this be exciting not just because it open up new opportunity for nuclear power in the UK , but because it create an opportunity for a renaissance in the civil nuclear industry in the UK . it be particularly exciting to see british firm such as Rolls - Royce lead the development and design of new small modular technology . while the Government have their competition to identify good bet in term of technology to invest in , we need to look not just at the unit price of that technology , but at the wide impact and benefit to the UK economy of invest in the new technology , in particular the modular reactor that can be factory build and assemble . they can be design not just to meet our energy demand ; they could also be an export industry for the future for the UK . that be an incredibly important part of the equation . in design the civil nuclear road map and through the creation of great British Nuclear , the Government have try to make it as easy as possible for the industry to work with the Government , to understand what the Government ' s need and objective be , and to understand the technology that they may seek to invest in . I think all of that be welcome . certainly , the people in the industry I have speak to welcome that step , which create a degree of certainty . we be look at far more player to be involve in the UK nuclear market than be the case in the past , with a far great range of technology and different business invest in they and develop they in the UK , Europe , the United States and far afield . this be all to be welcome and encourage . I appreciate why it be difficult for the Government now , as it would have be in the past , to say , " these be the technology that we know with certainty we can back " because the range be so great , but nevertheless we need to give certainty to the market and investor . the Government ' s competition for smr be also important , but there will be developer of technology that do not necessarily require Government subsidy and support , but simply seek site where they can deploy their technology and know they connect to the grid . the hon . Gentleman talk about the competition . I would also mention the time it be take . be the underlie problem not that while we have a manufacturer with a proven capacity to produce modular reactor , as it have be do for the Royal Navy for many decade , the United States be out there sell its technology with the full backing of the US Government and their various department right the way across Europe and other part of the world ? we be just consider it . be we not hobble british industry and the possibility of we be involve , as he rightly say , in this exciting new development ? I be sure the Minister will speak for himself on that particular point , but that be not a characterisation I would share . what the competition and great British Nuclear be do be give a very strong signal to business such as Rolls - Royce not only that this be a sound technology to invest in , but that there be potentially a very robust market for it in the UK . that be what I would like to see and why I say early that when these technology be consider we need to think about the broad impact on UK manufacturing and job that support and back these technology would bring , not just the manufacture of modular reactor and electricity . I have meet Rolls - Royce and see its SMR plan and design . they be incredibly exciting . as the right hon . Gentleman say , this be technology that have be develop for the Royal Navy , and its application for civil nuclear be very exciting indeed . I hope that it be very successful with it . I would certainly be very happy to see a Rolls - Royce SMR in my constituency at Dungeness . I do support the introduction of small modular reactor , but I hope the House would not want Rolls - Royce to be give preferential treatment by the Office for Nuclear Regulation in its generic design assessment , because we need to ensure that it be safe . do my hon . friend agree that while Sizewell C be now get under way , it be important that the contractor do honour what they say they will do , such as source the water and ensure that skill and job be happen locally , in order to give people confidence ? we know how long these project have take to get off the ground . I agree with my right hon . friend , particularly on her point about the labour market , and in the Sizewell area that be incredibly important . I know from Dungeness in my constituency that it be the certainty of have long - term employment that attract some of the good talent and encourage people , include apprentice , to join the industry . the Minister will probably want to comment on the substance of my right hon . friend ' s remark . in the time available to I , I want focus on the site list consultation element of the civil nuclear road map . the Government be say that the criterion that be apply to nuclear site in 2011 should still apply today , and in most case that be true . safety , access to water — where appropriate — and grid connection could all be important consideration when it be be decide where the site could be , along with habitat implication and , in coastal area , flood risk . all those be constant . the one factor that have completely change since 2011 be the size of the footprint of the nuclear facility itself . in Dungeness , an important factor have be the existence of a special protect area as a consequence of the unique shingle peninsula on which it sit , which be the second big in the world and a habitat that be unique in Europe , let alone the UK — the big shingle peninsula in the world be Cape Canaveral , in the United States . the protection be there for area of the shingle bank that have never be disturb . however , there be plenty of area surround exist nuclear site that be , in effect , brownfield site where that disturbance have take place . as they be not in special protect area , I believe that future development would be possible . the hon . Gentleman be advance a powerful argument . if we be to persuade people that smr be suitable for use outside conventional nuclear site , site they in place such as Dungeness and Trawsfynydd which do not fit under the 2011 list convey an important message . we have to be able to persuade people that small modular reactor can be use in other area , as well as not misuse site that might be well use for large nuclear project . I completely agree . I have a request to make to the Government , who will be consider the response to the consultation on the road map . I be keen to hold this debate now , during the period of the consultation , so that member can have their own view as well . I appreciate that it would not be easy or desirable for great British Nuclear to make technology - by - technology recommendation for every nuclear site in the country , but there should be a recognition of footprint size . there be site , such as Dungeness in my constituency and Sizewell in that of my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , where small facility could easily be build . they could be build on decommission land , where old power station have be subject to advance decommissioning . they could be build on land that be use as the building work site for the construction of the exist Dungeness B station , or even on the land that be currently a car park for the exist nuclear station . we need to give the market some certainty that building of a certain size can sit within the footprint of an exist nuclear site , on land that do not have the high level of habitat protection , but at present that be not envisage . what the consultation envisage be that every site on the list must be able to do everything . if there be to be no distinguish feature between different source of technology , we be not distinguish between a single SMR unit and something as big as Hinkley Point C . there must clearly be some relaxation , because otherwise other site that be currently among the eight location on the exist list will not be include on the new list . the industry will have an opportunity to come forward with recommendation to the Department and make a case for individual site — but obviously without the certainty of know that it be believe that technology below a certain footprint would be suitable there — and to take into account all the other important site consideration such as the local workforce , grid connection , access to water for cool if it be require . I think it would be much well if , follow the consultation on the civil nuclear road map , we could provide certainty about the type of technology that be possible on some of the small site , so that developer and business come forward with those technology would know they look with confidence at some of those site . I think that would make a huge difference to site such as Dungeness , which in other respect tick every box in respect of its suitability for new nuclear . it be on the grid , it have a domestic labour market , and it have strong support from the local community . in almost every case , the exist nuclear site be the most supportive of investment in new nuclear , because people be already familiar with the industry and know how many job would be create . if the Minister could say something about this today it would be much appreciated , but I should certainly like it to feature in the Government ' s response to the consultation . as I say early , I be not seek site - specific information about each technology , of which there could be many more in the future , but I hope it will at least be recognise that the big difference between smr and reactor the size of Hinkley Point be literally that : their size . smr will not be suitable everywhere — in fact , they will be suitable in relatively few place — but other technology will be suitable on a wide base . if the Government be to meet their target , they will have to do so by deeming site that be not currently be deploy to be suitable for smr . we should give the industry as much backing as possible in make that investment . I commend the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) for initiate the debate . it may not surprise he that I will approach it from a different angle , provide the opposition , as it be . in my view , this should be call the nuclear road map fantasy . even if we put aside my objection and that of my party to new nuclear power , all the evidence and all the understanding of the development or non - development of nuclear power in the UK over the past decade point to the fact that this will not happen . as the hon . Gentleman rightly point out , the 2011 plan never come to fruition . it be obvious that the nuclear ambition have not be fulfil in the past 13 year . every pro - nuclear enthusiast seem to ignore the fairly recent market failure whereby Hitachi walk away from Wylfa and Oldbury and Toshiba walk away from Moorside . notwithstanding the intended competition for the construction of all these new nuclear site , EDF and China General Nuclear remain the only show in town , and EDF be still the only show in town as the only company willing to build large - scale nuclear . EDF have a blank cheque when it be at the negotiating table , because there be nowhere else for the Government to go . large - scale nuclear ambition also ignore the fact that as a concept the EPR design have be a failure , with every single EPR project in the world be over budget , late and experience technical difficulty . Finland ' s Olkiluoto 3 be 15 year late . Flamanville in France be 12 year late and at four time its original budget . Taishan in China be hold up as the delivery exemplar when it be commission , but have be plague by safety concern owe to rod damage , and have be offline as much as it have be online since it be commission . we be tell that the lesson learn from all the problem with all the other EPR project would be put into place in Hinkley and that it would be much more efficiently deliver , so let we look at Hinkley Point C . in 2016 , its estimate cost be £ 18 billion , but EDF have recently update that estimate to £ 48 billion in today ' s price — a mere £ 30 billion overspend . instead of generate power in 2025 , it will now be as late as 2031 . as cost have continue to spiral , the Government ' s attitude remain that it do not really matter for the taxpayer , because all the risk sit with EDF . however , China General Nuclear , which be a partner in the project , have already reach its cap on the money and capital it be willing to put in , so clearly EDF be now have to find a lot more borrowing than it anticipate . frankly , it beggar belief that the Minister and the Government claim not to be speak to EDF about this , especially when just last week the chief executive of EDF , Luc R é mont , state : " we ' re confident we can find a pathway with british authority on Hinkley Point C and Sizewell . " when will the Government admit that Hinkley Point C will need some sort of bailout to allow it to get to completion , or be the intention to throw more money at Sizewell to offset Hinkley ' s financial black hole for EDF ? the Government also need to come clean on why they put back the contractual payment cut - off date for Hinkley by six year . do they know that there be potentially far bad news for Hinkley ? the lesson learn have not work out for Hinkley , but now we be tell that it have be a good learning project and that Sizewell C will be different and will be deliver efficiently , learn from the lesson of the delivery of Hinkley . again , this be head - in - the - sand stuff . the last Government estimate for Sizewell C be £ 20 billion , but we now know that Hinkley will cost nearly £ 50 billion , so it be quite clear that Sizewell C will cost £ 50 billion — a lot more capital than the Government have intimate they be require to raise . it be no wonder that pension fund have be run a mile from invest in Sizewell C . it be not a straightforward comparison , because I think Sizewell C be still in line with its 2015 price . it be fairly standard to try to stick with an estimate , but I agree with the hon . Gentleman . as the local MP for Sizewell C , I be concerned that there have be significant delay at Hinkley . I appreciate that the SNP do not approve of nuclear power at all , but I would like to understand why he be concerned that the Government will have to bail out Hinkley C , when that be clearly not the situation . I would be interested to explore why he think that be the case . I quote the chief executive of EDF , who say he hope to find a pathway with the british authority , which suggest that EDF want to be talk about get more money . the reality be that if there be a £ 30 billion overspend , EDF must recover that money somewhere , if it can afford to deliver the project without get a bailout and in line with the 35 - year contract it have for sell electricity . if the company have be able to swallow that level of overspend , it show that the site rate originally agree in the £ 18 billion estimate for construction be way too high , because the original £ 18 billion be suppose to cover contingency as well . something do not stack up , give that there be such an overspend and such a delay . the delay mean that it will be even long before EDF start get payment for the project , so something be not quite right and we need to get a well understanding of that . I disagree that Sizewell C be still in line with its 2015 price . at the end of the day , although some lesson can be learn and replicate , the site for Sizewell C be small , more constrained and geologically different . it be surround by marsh and adjacent to an internationally renowned nature reserve . it be also in one of the fast - erode coastline in Europe , which be subject to rise sea level and more extreme weather event . in other word , I would argue that Sizewell C be a daft location for a new nuclear power station . with the groundwork and initial civil engineering that will be require , it be not a straightforward carbon copy of Hinkley . we need to know the official estimate for Sizewell C . taxpayer deserve some transparency , especially give that the Government have already allocate £ 2 . 5 billion of taxpayer ' money to EDF for the development of the project , just to get to the stage of a final investment decision . enough money have already be plough into Sizewell C , yet there be still a lot of uncertainty . on the wide programme delivery consideration for these large - scale nuclear site , Hinkley will have take 15 year to complete , if it be complete , by 2031 . even if we be optimistic about Sizewell C , which will be deliver much more quickly , it be still go to take at least 10 year , so it could be between 2035 and 2040 before it be deliver . these timescale alone show the folly of rely on nuclear for decarbonisation and of planning for nuclear to deliver 25 % of generation output capacity by 2050 , as set out in the road map . it also show the folly of the road map state a delivery target of 3 GW to 7 GW every five year . it be a fantasy target , as be 24 GW overall , unfortunately . the concept of 24 GW , or 25 % of generation output , be the wrong model , give that nuclear power be so inflexible . such a large nuclear output on the grid mean that , at time , even great constraint payment will be pay for renewable energy company to turn off their turbine . large - scale nuclear can not deliver the intended five - year target , so how will those target be meet ? as the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) outline , the road map talk about small modular reactor . the name sound innocuous , but do people really believe that a footprint the size of two football pitch be small ? it clearly be not , and there be not yet a single license prototype in the UK . good luck in the competition for smr , consider that none have be license and approve for construction in the UK . of the design that the Office for Nuclear Regulation be consider , the only one to have reach stage 2 be the Rolls - Royce proposal , with the ONR ' s stage 2 assessment due to conclude in July 2024 . stage 3 timescale be still to be confirm , so the reality be that smr be just a glint in the UK ' s eye at the moment . there be no understanding or certainty on timescale , even if smr do come to fruition . NuScale be supposedly the world leader in SMR technology , and it have just give up on its propose SMR in Utah because cost have balloon to £ 7 billion . the cost of electricity generation have rocket , too . our road map tell we that the UK will pioneer and lead the way on new nuclear and smr , but that do not make sense . the Government estimate that smr will cost £ 2 billion a go , which make no sense give the cost of the project in Utah . the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , be in his place , and I welcome the question he have put to the Government . the Government need to consider this closely , and I look forward to their response . why do the road map outline two possible funding model — contract for difference and a regulated asset base ? at a £ 92 . 50 per megawatt - hour strike rate over 35 year , Hinkley Point be way more expensive than renewable energy at circa £ 40 to £ 50 per megawatt - hour over just a 15 - year concession period . when we debate the legislation on the regulated asset base funding model , the Government tell we that the CFD model do not work for nuclear as it be too expensive , and that switch to RAB would save £ 40 billion to £ 80 billion over the lifetime of a nuclear project . if that be the case , why be two funding model list in the road map ? be the Government now concerned that RAB transfer too much risk to the bill payer ? be they concerned about repeat what happen in South Carolina where , under a regulated asset base model , a company abandon the construction of a nuclear power station and ratepayer be leave pay for a power station that be never complete ? what be to stop that happen at Sizewell ? the road map outline the need for a geological disposal facility , but there be no plan in place to show how such a facility will be identify , construct and pay for . what be the estimate cost of a gdf ? how big will it need to be ? will it be one facility or will there be more , depend on how many nuclear power station be build ? worryingly , the road map talk about have interim storage in the meantime . this show that there be still no solution in place for dispose of radioactive nuclear waste , other than bury it for hundred of year . our current decommissioning legacy be estimate to be £ 124 billion , so why do we want to create another generation of nuclear waste for future generation to pay for ? there be always a risk that a future Government will need to pick up the tab for decommissioning , no matter what company sign up to at the outset . finally , we be tell that nuclear be require because of its reliability and because it produce power when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine . over the last 12 year , however , each nuclear reactor have be offline for roughly a quarter of the year , so the dependability of nuclear be not a given . indeed , Heysham and Hartlepool power station be offline and have be since December , so two out of three in the exist fleet in England be offline . before Hinkley come online , seven of the original eight nuclear station operate just a few year ago will have go offline . if we can operate with such a depletion of the exist nuclear fleet before Hinkley come online , that undermine the argument that we need nuclear to supply the baseload . the Government clearly do not think that the light will go out when the rest of these nuclear station be be decommission before Hinkley come online . to I , the road map seem to be all false aspiration and not enough substance , and it fly in the face of the reality of what we know about the operation of nuclear in the past few year and how the market really sit at the moment . I be grateful to the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) for refer to the letter that the Environmental Audit Committee have just send under my name to the Secretary of State . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) allow the letter to be tag to this debate when he secure it , and I congratulate he on do so . it be on an important subject and , from our Committee ' s point of view , it be timely , because we write to the Secretary of State only a few week ago , before the recess . some member of my Committee — it be a very diverse Committee , with a complete range of opinion on this subject — have very strong reservation about the role and scope of nuclear energy in the UK , but I will start by place on record my personal support for nuclear energy and the SMR programme , which be the subject of our letter and will be the subject of my remark today . it be an important part of the path to net zero , contribute not just to baseload , but to the significant increase in electricity generation that will be require if we manage to decarbonise our economy , as be support across the House . I look forward to listen to the contribution from the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) , but the Labour party ' s energy policy be in complete disarray . I therefore welcome the stark contrast that the Minister have provide — particularly in his new role as Minister for nuclear — by get nuclear on the road to regeneration as a core part of our energy mix as we move towards net zero . it be precisely because the Labour party , during its last period in office , make no decision and would not even debate the subject that we have such a skill shortage in the UK civil nuclear sector . that be pick up in an intervention by the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) . no new nuclear reactor have come online in the UK since 1995 because of that indecision , so I welcome the civil nuclear road map , which set out the Government ' s ambition to reach as much as 24 GW of nuclear power by 2050 . the intent to deploy smr will assist the UK in reach that target , as be set out in the british energy security strategy . I ask the Minister to consider the concern that I raise in the Committee ' s letter of 13 February to the Secretary of State , among which be the fact that the investment decision seek between 2030 and 2044 be likely , on current plan , to realise generating capacity of between 9 GW and 21 GW . the Minister , who be very good at math , will recognise that that be quite a range : 12 GW , or half the Government ' s 24 GW upper target for nuclear capacity by 2050 . great British Nuclear tell our Committee that the Government ' s target of produce up to 24 GW of nuclear power be not sufficient to give industry confidence about the scale of investment that would be require and suggest that a specific programme should be require to facilitate industry confidence . further clarity — this be the essence of my letter — would be welcome . despite the Government ' s assertion in response to the Committee ' s recent intervention , as it stand the road map do not offer as much clarity as industry and investor require . give the increase international interest and competition in investment in build nuclear energy capacity , we need to recognise that the UK market for create that additional capacity can not be consider in isolation . we be in an international race to transition our economy into a decarbonised world in which many other country be look to build nuclear capacity . those involve in deliver that capacity will have choice : where to invest , to build and to bid . a key role for Government in achieve their objective of introduce SMR nuclear energy be to provide as much clarity as possible in the process for decision making , the timescale to which they be work and the manner of the procurement process , include funding and contracting model . I urge my hon . friend the Minister to make the Government ' s expectation on gigawatt roll - out as clear as possible , so that the contribution smr be expect to make to the electricity generation mix in the UK by 2035 be make available to industry . that will give it the confidence it need to invest in the programme to the extent the Government would like and accord to the timetable they have indicate in the road map . I assume Ministers be as convince as I be about the future role of baseload generation in supply electricity to the grid , alongside the power to be provide by renewable , and I be sure the Minister will need no further invitation to set that out in his response . on current estimate , it seem unlikely that SMR deployment will be contribute generating capacity to the grid until 2035 , the date by which the Government expect the GB electricity grid to have be decarbonise , with both Hinkley and Sizewell likely to be operational in the early 2030 . quite how the Labour party believe it can decarbonise the grid by 2030 , a full five year ahead of that , against all consensus of prevail expert advice , be a matter for Labour , but it seem wholly fanciful and frankly misleading to the british public . so what will the additional generating capacity to be deliver through an SMR fleet provide ? there be strong suggestion in the road map and its support paper that a fleet of smr base on advanced nuclear technology will have application beyond power generation , but until those technology be prove to be viable for deployment in smr , with the benefit that a modular approach to construction be expect to provide , which be highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) in introduce the debate , they remain some way off be ready for investment . not only be nuclear , and the SMR approach to deployment , a crucial component of reach net zero , but there be significant economic benefit to the UK if we be a leader in this technology , include a large potential export market for SMR unit . the UK ' s SMR programme be in an advanced position among western country . it have the potential to facilitate a nascent export market and deliver new skilled job across the UK . along with my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , in 2015 , when I be Minister for defence equipment , science and technology and have responsibility for defence nuclear procurement , I be proud to launch the coalition Government ' s programme for sustain the UK ' s nuclear skill . the competitive advantage we have in this field be potentially huge , if properly resource and incentivise . however , all of this require the Government to flesh out the road map in way that far demonstrate a long - term commitment to the UK ' s nuclear future , and to learn from the issue in procure gigawatt - scale nuclear when develop its strategy to deliver nuclear through smr . Simon Bowen , whom I commend for his clear leadership of great British Nuclear , explain to the Committee that between one and four SMR design be to be select for Government contract , with at least one SMR project to be take to final investment decision by 2029 . on the issue of the timetable , I be disappoint that the road map remove reference to clarity of the timeline for the conclusion of the current design competition , signal that the Government may push back award contract to winner of the SMR design competition beyond summer 2024 as originally intend . I hope the Minister will use this opportunity to clarify when he expect to announce the outcome , and hopefully that will be prior to the summer recess . any of we who have hold responsibility for procurement in Government will know that time be a constant pressure , so I encourage the Minister to do all he can while in post to put in place the right process early , so that deadline do not slip . our Committee have say that , in the interest of parliamentary and public confidence in both the expenditure of public money and the timely delivery of expected benefit , the SMR programme should be fully subject to a value for money audit by the National Audit Office , provide that this in itself do not add delay to the delivery . I recognise the pressure to streamline planning and regulatory process , but the Committee think it vital that robust governance and safety arrangement be maintain . this be not an area where Ministers will want to cut comer . while I be on my foot , I ask the Minister to comment in his closing remark on medium report that great British Nuclear be in discussion with EDF to purchase a part of the exist nuclear site at Heysham as a likely location for one of the first SMR facility . my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( David Morris ) — a neighbour of yours , Mr Deputy Speaker — in whose constituency Heysham sit , can not be here for this debate , but he have tell I that the site in his constituency have grid and rail connection , a supportive community , and , clearly , a highly skilled workforce — the large of any generate nuclear site in the UK — which could support the operation of any future nuclear development at Heysham . in order to help accelerate deployment once the successful design have be select , which other speaker in this debate have call for , can the Minister confirm whether GBN could make a start on prepare one or more site for the eventual successful bidder , once the Government have announce which site they have designate for initial deployment ? finally , the fact that every nuclear power plant start life under a Conservative Government demonstrate our willingness to make important decision for the long - term future of this country . I welcome the Government ' s plan , as they represent the big expansion of nuclear power for , I believe , 70 year — my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe say 50 year — which will lead to a quadrupling of nuclear capacity by 2050 . the UK can once again become a lead nation in provide civil nuclear energy , and this Government can take credit for take the key decision to bring that about . it would be great to expedite those decision as soon as possible . we have already have mention of the significance of net zero . we know that , alongside that , the demand for electricity will increase exponentially . we know , too , that energy security not just for the United Kingdom , but for the supply of electricity that we currently receive from european country — or the price that they will be prepare to pay for electricity and energy — will affect what we produce here . Ireland , to the west of the United Kingdom and , very significantly , to the west of Wales , be also go through the same thought process about its need for electricity . the all - party parliamentary group on nuclear energy pay a visit to Finland . alongside the great significance of employment , which be in no way insignificant in any of our constituency — least of all in one such as Dwyfor Meirionnydd , which be one of the lowest - pay constituency in the UK — there be other socioeconomic driver , which could be part of this programme and which be implicit in the road map . one of those driver , which we have not consider in sufficient depth , be the cost of electricity in the United Kingdom . again , I speak for my constituency when I say that we , alongside Merseyside , pay among the high standing charge — if not the high standing charge — in the UK . yet we have a tradition of generate electricity . I can think of a hydro production facility in Tanygrisiau , which be produce and feed into the grid and go over some of the poorest - build housing that we know of in my constituency , and certainly among the poorest - build housing in western Europe . there be a deep anomaly here . we know how much energy poverty be hit our community . we must be look in future not just at the boon that come with employment , but at the boon that come from generate electricity . in Finland , for example , large - scale power station pay in to real estate taxis . they pay so much that everyone else pay less . in France , people pay less for electricity when they be in the environ of a generating station . these be thing that we need to consider , because as thing stand we be deal with inequality and people suffer from power poverty . like the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , I want to speak about the decommission power station in my constituency , but first I welcome the announcement on Wylfa . it be the policy of my party , Plaid Cymru , to support development at Wylfa and Trawsfynydd , although not at any more site in Wales . I previously work in further education . we see expectation and hope raise and then dash in community , which be of course what have happen at Wylfa in the past . I urge the Government to ensure that what be propose be robust , resilient and sustainable , and that the development be bring forward . I remember a programme of apprentice who have to finish their apprenticeship elsewhere because they be no long able to do so at Wylfa . that be very damaging . there be immense potential , but this must not be just a political boon in the run - up to a general election . these scheme matter immensely to our community , and must not be handle lightly . Trawsfynydd , just like Dungeness , be a site that do not find its way on to the 2011 list , for reason that be perfectly understandable at the time , but I would strongly argue that it should be under consideration in the here and now . why ? first , I will namecheck a constituent , Rory Trappe , who , when he work at Trawsfynydd — he be also the Prospect union rep — almost single - handedly get Trawsfynydd mention in the Financial Times and elsewhere as the first site for which an SMR be be consider . that raise people ' s hope in my constituency . as I mention , the difference that would make to salary in an area such as Meirionnydd in Gwynedd be immense . it have be part of the Ambition North Wales growth deal as well . public money have be allocate to Trawsfynydd , but there be now a question mark hang over that funding . another advantage of the site be that we have grid connectivity . I know that for some other site that will be a question ; there will be a cost , public controversy , and issue over pylon , but at Trawsfynydd , grid connectivity exist . the site be entirely in public ownership . there be a question about the good use of public money . Trawsfynydd be not on the 2011 list because it be on a lake , rather than on the sea . it be recognise then that the site be not sufficiently supply with water for large - scale development in the future . that come back to an argument that I raise in my intervention : if smr be to be show to be suitable on site other than conventional site , the Government should look at how they can show that on the ground . again , that be one of Trawsfynydd ' s original positive point . alongside that , the Welsh Government have invest Cwmni Egino as a development company for the site . that appear to have be disregard in the criterion . I be sure that the criterion for GBN be very worth while , but that factor , which be unique to Wales , be not consider . I strongly urge that it now be consider . finally , there be a mix for the area . we have a hydro - generation scheme at Maentwrog , so old that it exist even before the national grid . we also have a company call Ynni Twrog with a local scheme for energy and a scheme for community energy . it want to engage with the profit generate from Maentwrog . I would welcome the opportunity to discuss that far , and everything else that I have raise , with the Minister . Trawsfynydd cease to generate over 30 year ago . the fear be about what be be propose now . I will be tell that Trawsfynydd be not off the list , and I know that other sort of technology will be mention , but they be 30 year away . that be 60 year without any generation at a publicly own site . that be more than a professional lifetime . this be a waste of a resource . we be talk about something that would make an immense difference to the area , and to north - west Wales as a whole . I would like to know what the Minister propose for the site . be there a possibility of an SMR ? if the Minister propose an alternative technology , what be it ? how realistic be that ? be we talk about medical isotope as well , because that have be moot ? I have moot it , because there be a security question over their supply . I reiterate that this be a waste of a public resource . just like at Dungeness , we have so much that we could be make well use of . I urge the Minister to consider how good to do that . I be a little cautious about rise to speak , because like other member in the past , I have great enthusiasm and a great understanding of the need , but considerable ignorance of the physics involve , have leave physics behind 30 or 40 year ago . I have two personal link to this matter , the first be a slightly amusing one . I live in a little place call Richmond in the north of the south island of New Zealand . just down the road be a place call Appleby , which be even small . in the 1870 , the school at Appleby have four pupil . one of they be Ernest Hemingway . sorry , it be not Ernest Hemingway . [ interruption . ] it be — our nuclear man . his first invention be a potato masher for his grandmother , which I think be quite an interesting link because , as we all know , he go on to smash the atom , as it have be put . my enthusiasm come from recognition that we must have nuclear power in this country , even if we take into account the point about hydroelectric , but without the facility , we can not have it . my second link to this matter be that a firm in my constituency , KBR , be a power in nuclear production . it welcome this road map , but have concern about it . I invite the Minister to have a roundtable discussion ; he could bring in the key player to sit down with he and talk the whole project through . KBR ' s feel — and I sense this as well — be that we have a classic case of UK caution in this area . we have a positive response to small modular reactor in the case of Rolls - Royce and TerraPower , but we do not seem to be get stick in with and behind advanced modular reactor , as have already be mention . will the hon . member give way ? I think the right hon . member might make this rather difficult for I because of my lack of knowledge , but I will give way . I promise the hon . member that I will not . as someone who be very pro - nuclear , I believe that one big issue be that we have load of review , and identify all the problem and what we will do , and then never actually do it . if we do get around to build a station , we build one — not a number of they ; just one . then , a number of year after that , we might build another one , but to a completely different design . that be how we keep go in this country . do he agree ? Mr Beresford , I think the name you be struggle to find be Ernest Rutherford . sorry ? it be Ernest Rutherford . the Government Whip , the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) , be the genius , not I . thank you . the Whip have save I ! I have actually work it out and be go to bring it up . the other thing that rather kick my memory be that when I go out to the same place last September , I stay at the Rutherford hotel . oh dear ; my English and English literature be well than my physics , I concede . I agree with the right hon . member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) . that be the point that KBR and other be make : this be an opportunity that we have the distinctly british possibility of miss . KBR be go in particular for amr . it have come back to I and complain , as it will to the Minister — just to prepare he for that meeting — about our clumsy development consent order , which delay everything , be bureaucratic and problematic , and could be considerably easy . as a result , we be slip behind some of the rest of the world . for example , the United States advanced reactor and advanced modular reactor technology developer , TerraPower , have a finance match programme well under way that will achieve power generation in the US by 2030 . we have that opportunity , and we have the right attitude , but we be not do it . I stop at this point , have make my complaint and miss Lord Rutherford ' s name . we owe our nation the facility to produce the extra 40 % of power that we will need when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow . the water will keep run , but that be a very minor part of our power . we do not have those facility , and if we miss this opportunity , we will hand our child a low - grade state . while I welcome the road map , it be not enough . it do not move fast enough , and it do not contain the funding we need , but it do have the co - operation of the industry , which will bring its money bag with it . as such , I invite the Minister to come along and talk to some of the key people in a short roundtable discussion . Lord Rutherford will be there in the wall behind we . rise — before we go into the wind - up , I remind member that there be a second debate , which we would like to get on to as quickly as we can to give other member as much opportunity to discuss their issue as possible . I ask Members to leave two minute at the end for Philip Dunne as well . I will be mindful of that , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be fair to say that while there be very different opinion on nuclear energy , and indeed on the civil nuclear road map , we can all agree on how important energy be to our future — the future of all nation across the UK — and , indeed , that it be become an increasingly important resource across the world . as a member of the SNP , represent the scottish constituency of Livingston , I be proud that we be an energy - rich nation . we in Scotland be particularly rich in renewable energy , and we want to see those resource make the most of . I do not believe , nor do my party , that nuclear be the way forward . the effect of climate change and resource competition have demonstrate that access to the amount of energy we need be not a give , and we must act to ensure that we have secure and sustainable energy resource . however , the goal of energy security can not be achieve by go backwards , which many SNP Members feel be what be happen . it be interesting that even member in this debate who support nuclear energy be critical of the road map . my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , who be not supportive of nuclear energy , make a very pertinent point ; he describe that road map as a fantasy . that be probably the good and fairest description that could be give . none the less , member — particularly those who have constituency interest — raise pertinent and serious issue about cost and delivery throughout the debate . as we have hear , the cost of nuclear energy be staggering . the number we have hear in this debate be almost inconceivable : £ 35 billion for Hinkley Point C , include a £ 2 . 3 billion budget increase this year alone , and an eye - water approximation of £ 20 billion for Sizewell C ' s budget . for some context , the UK Government will spend only £ 1 billion to increase the availability of hospital bed in NHS England , and only £ 4 . 1 billion on England ' s new childcare plan — a stark contrast to the cost of nuclear energy . every single project run by EDF , the company commission to build Hinkley Point C and Sizewell C , have run over budget and between six and 14 year behind schedule . at a time when we face a cost of energy and cost of living crisis , that be not value for money ; the plan be not efficient , effective or practical . what be more , those large investment come at the expense of green energy development in the UK . Non - nuclear renewable energy source be credible option to solve energy instability . Scotland have prove that it can fuel its entire country and more just with wind power — in fact , accord to National Grid , Scotland ' s full energy mix have be keep the light on in England . we be do our good turn , but the reality be that money invest in nuclear project be take away from investment in green energy , particularly in Scotland . turn to grid connection , an issue that a number of member have raise , I recently meet with a developer who be try to develop a solar project in my constituency . I have concern about how close it be to house in my constituency ; these be new development , and there be still lot of area that be be look at . however , that developer say to I that if the project have be build in the south of England , it would have be half the size — it need to be twice the size because of the grid connection charge . as we hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) , the grid connection charge and the standing charge in her constituency be absolutely outrageous . the green industrial revolution be the great economic opportunity of the 21st century , and it will deliver more job , cheap energy and great economic growth , but this focus on a blank cheque investment in unproven nuclear power be utterly ludicrous . at the end of the day , we need energy in order for the United Kingdom to function , and fuel be become a scarce resource . action must be take to resolve that — this much we can all agree on — but the civil nuclear road map do not even solve the problem . in fact , the plan , as we have hear , focus largely on the great development of small modular reactor , but the propose 300 MW smr appear to be base on the 1 , 500 MW design that have not actually be build , make the technology in the civil nuclear road map unproven . to have such an important road map and spend so much public money on it , and to have at the heart of it a technology that be unproven just do not make sense . as if that be not enough , these smr be think to produce up to 30 time more waste than conventional nuclear reactor . as my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun highlight , waste be one of our major concern . we be see water pollution across the UK , with sewage be pump into river and sea , particularly on the coast of England , and now we want to dump nuclear waste in bunker — or , accord to this road map , not actually to have any proper plan , but just to kick the can down the road . Scotland , and the rest of the UK , need a Government who will deliver a comprehensive energy strategy that include job and low bill , and that grow the economy . we deserve a plan that can unleash our full green energy potential , and Scotland ' s future growth and green future will come from investment in renewable energy , not nuclear . the UK - wide focus on nuclear energy run counter to common sense , frankly . we have see project — and I know the Minister know this and , I hope , feel it keenly — that be cancel , as when I work in the north - east of Scotland in the energy industry myself , and see that repeatedly with carbon capture , with the devastation that wreak on the industry . sadly , we can not trust the UK Conservative Government with our energy policy . at a time when other country be ramp up investment in green energy , Westminster be show itself to be incapable of deliver a credible plan . it be clear , as this debate have show , that the UK Government ' s civil nuclear road map do not deliver . I call the shadow Minister . first , I congratulate the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) on secure this timely debate via the Backbench Business process . that be extraordinarily efficient , since the road map be publish only on 26 January . to get a parliamentary debate in less than a month of that publication be good go indeed , so congratulation go to he . I need to say at the outset , for the elimination of any doubt , that the opposition consider that nuclear will play a significant role in our low - carbon economy for the future , and we therefore support its development over the future period . however , the very substantial question that have be raise this afternoon be about what that development will consist of , how it will be organise , and what site may or may not be available for its development , as well as a number of relate issue . it be good that we now have a nuclear road map , but I think it be fair to draw attention , as other hon . member have do — the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , and the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe — to a number of the issue in the overall headline in the nuclear road map , which be that there should be a 24 GW target for nuclear development out to 2050 . by the way , contrary to the suggestion that the previous Labour Government do nothing on nuclear , in 2009 there be a nuclear national policy statement that set out the site that should be make available for new nuclear and start the process of discuss those site with developer . the problem be that since then , yes , there be a revised EN - 6 national policy statement , but not a single electron of nuclear power have appear between 2009 and the present . we be talk about a target for the future in the context of serious delay as far as nuclear be concerned . yes , we must talk about that target and what the energy mix will consist of for the future , but we must also talk about whether those thing will materialise in the way envisage , and about how we can overcome the substantial delay that seem to be bake in to the process of nuclear development . it be not clear whether that target will largely be fill by gigawatt - sized plant or by small modular reactor and advanced modular reactor . it be not clear what consideration should or will be give to the mix of nuclear , as it will sit in what will be a very different power mix from hitherto . what planning will be undertake to ensure that such a mix will be optimal , give the need to have power system that can act compatibly with other form of power ? the road map commit to at least one gigawatt power station in addition to those under way at the moment , but as we have hear this afternoon , substantial delay in exist large nuclear plant be the order of the day . Hinkley be now 10 year delay , Sizewell C do not yet have financial closure , and it do not look as though there will be any power from that until the early 2030 . the good news be that Sizewell B be likely to have a 20 - year extension on its life . it be currently due to close in 2035 , so that will be effectively the equivalent of a new large power station generate in the late 2030 onwards . so far the Government have put £ 2 . 5 billion into Sizewell C and not one stone have yet be lay on another . I imagine there would be a need in principle for similar sum to be lay before future gigawatt nuclear power plant , if that be what the Government envisage for their 24 - gigawatt strategy in the main . it be not indicate on the road map whether the Government be able or prepared to do that . indeed , the money that have already be put into Sizewell be not plan . on the other hand , while we be have a competition to determine what support , if any , should be give to the winner of the competition for SMR development , an agreement in principle have be reach to build four smr on Teesside at no cost to the public purse , by the american company Westinghouse Electric Company , and Community Nuclear Power . it at least appear — competition or no competition — that there may be circumstance in which , at no cost to the public purse , nuclear power in the shape of smr can come forward . that be another reason why the competition need to go ahead as quickly as possible , to get what we be do in the UK as up to speed as possible with what people be do elsewhere in the world . what the agreement that have be reach in Teesside currently lack be a clear route forward about site . that be a proper subject for another delay action , which , as mention in the road map , be the updating of strategic planning statement concern nuclear . the last such statement , a revised EN - 6 , be publish and adopt in 2011 , and it identify , as the 2009 document have do , a number of specific site for gigawatt power station . however , it run only until 2025 . indeed , a number of those site be initially earmark for nuclear plant , but the consortium advance they withdraw . we be now in a different age . the priority now be surely to identify site , or at least to put in place clear condition under which smr in particular might go ahead . I see from the road map that an intention for the development of an update EN - 7 appear to be that it will establish clear criterion for such site . that be of course delay , as with so many thing relate to nuclear planning and action . it be not with we at the moment , but it should be . I hope the Minister will give we a firm indication of when it will be publish and adopt by this House . an area where we have have delay and prevarication in the past be nuclear fuel . I be pleased to see in the road map a firm commitment to support the development of new form of nuclear fuel and support for the production of exist fuel , such as high - assay low - enrich uranium , which at present be available only from russian source . secure those fuel development for Springfields nuclear fuel and establish the funding that will make it work be an important piece of work under way early in the path of the road map , and I see the Minister have already lay a revise designation for Springfields in respect of enable new uranium conversion facility to be develop . all of that be a good piece of work by the Minister , and he should be applaud for it . on the subject of delay , one of the most egregious be the absence of any progress on the identification and establishment of a nuclear repository . in the word of the road map : " a process be well underway to identify a suitable site in which to develop a GDF " — a geological disposal facility — " that have suitable geology and the support of a local community . " those word vary little in content from the original White Paper in 2008 that state that such a process be to get under way . I have be to Finland and see its waste repository . it be not rocket science — it be not that difficult . we have put this off for year and year . the argument always use against the industry be , " there be no answer to the waste . " well , there be an answer , and it be straight - forward . we just need to make that decision . my right hon . friend have more or less write the rest of my speech for I . he be right that it be not rocket science ; it be nuclear science . and it be pretty straightforward , essentially . by the way , the White Paper under the previous Labour Government say in 2008 that the process should get under way rapidly , with community consent , and that a geological disposal facility should follow shortly after . nothing have happen since then , but it be vital , as we contemplate the kind of programme that we be envisage for nuclear and the decommissioning of all but one of our current nuclear fleet , that a storage facility get under way . we need rather more in the road map than the sparse word right now , or we at least need a renew specific pathway for a disposal facility to be publish . I would be interested to hear from the Minister whether he be positively inclined towards that idea and whether he appreciate the urgency of make progress on a secure geological disposal facility . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair this afternoon , Madam Deputy Speaker . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) on secure this important debate , and on the speed at which he be able to secure it , give that it be only a month and a half ago that I be stand at this Dispatch Box and publish the nuclear road map . he be absolutely right to seize the opportunity present in the civil nuclear road map , and I commend he for his consistent effort on this agenda and for champion his constituency . I be grateful to visit Dungeness last year with my hon . friend . I see the strong local support for that site as a potential future location for a small modular reactor . I very much enjoy my trip to the local pub and the fish and chip — should that be fission chip ? — that we be serve follow our visit to the reactor . the UK already deliver high - quality apprenticeship in the nuclear sector . we recognise the need to increase the number of apprentice to ensure that the nuclear sector can keep up with demand , without compromise the quality of training or career opportunity . the value of energy generation to community around the country be an essential part of the discussion . a month on from the publication of the civil nuclear road map , I be pleased to be discuss it here today . the Government be focus on create a stable , secure and clean energy supply for the country . the publication of the road map set out plan for the great nuclear revival of this country . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , who have be a consistent champion of this , point out , nuclear play a key role in our drive towards net zero . that have be recognise not only by this country but at COP by 30 other country around the world , who come together to pledge to increase their nuclear generating capacity by 30 % so that we can take concrete action on the big challenge of our time , which we all agree be climate change . nuclear power generation be a low - carbon , prove technology that will play an important role in make our energy system more resilient and less polluting . we have set out this expansion with quantifiable aim . we want to achieve up to 24 GW of nuclear power generation by 2050 , which be four time what we currently produce . that ambition will require we to deploy a range of technology from large - scale gigawatt reactor to small modular reactor and , come down the stream , advanced modular reactor . on the first of those technology , I be pleased to say that we be make incredibly good progress . since the subject be last raise in the House on 11 January , the Government have make available a furth £ 1 . 3 billion for the construction of Sizewell C . that bring the total Government investment available for the project to £ 2 . 5 billion . beyond Sizewell , we have commit to a pragmatic approach to nuclear deployment . as set out in the road map , that mean commit to explore a far large - scale nuclear project beyond Sizewell . [ interruption . ] I will not give way . I will address the comment make in the debate far on in my speech . I be conscious that we have another debate to get to , and I do not want to take up any more time for that debate ; we be already eat into it . on smr , we have set up great British Nuclear , an arm ' s length body responsible for help to deliver new nuclear project . in 2023 , GBN launch a technology selection process for smr — it have be reference — with the aim of identify the technology well able to reach a project final investment decision in the next Parliament , potentially release billion of pound of private and public investment . in October , Great British Nuclear announce the design of six technology vendor it have select to proceed to the next stage of the process . I assure right hon . and hon . member that the next stage of the competitive selection process will be launch shortly . the ambition be to announce this year which of the six company the Government will support . importantly , whatever the technology , the nuclear programme require new site to enable construction within the decade . the Government ' s plan , publish last January , set out how we will achieve the expansion in the come year . my hon . friend the Member for Folkstone and Hythe will know from the road map that , in order to reach our destination of up to 24 GW by 2050 , we have propose a new approach to site nuclear power station , which will empower developer to identify sustainable site . the current national policy statement for site nuclear power station deployable before the end of 2025 list potential location for nuclear site . our new national policy statement for beyond 2025 aim to enable developer to identify site that well match their technology . to open up more siting opportunity and facilitate long - term market development , an update , robust site assessment criterion will ensure that only those site that be suitable for a new nuclear programme progress through the planning system . while I be afraid that we can not today speculate on the location of these new nuclear site , we will pave the way for new nuclear site in the UK to be make possible by this new nuclear site national policy statement and civil nuclear road map . I suggest to my hon . friend and any other who be rightly look to the job creation and economic benefit of new nuclear site that my Department share their eagerness to confirm these project , and we will share news of they as our consultation progress . I know that red tape and over - cautious regulation have slow the progress of many construction project in this country . however , I urge that cautious planning and adherence to correct procedure be a necessity when , after all , we be here discuss nuclear power . this be a slow process , because it be a diligent one , and it should be a diligent one . I will not make any promise today about the location of new nuclear site , but my hon . friend and other can be certain that community engagement will be central to the development of any new site , and my Department be work to deliver that . my hon . friend the Member for Mole Valley ( Sir Paul Beresford ) talk about new technology . in January , I launch the alternative route to market for new nuclear project consultation , which aim to explore what step can be take to enable different route to market for advanced nuclear technology and the use and potential benefit they can provide to the UK economy when they do not need the support of the british taxpayer . the consultation will end on 12 April , and we be seek response to support the development of policy that will allow the nuclear industry to thrive . expand our nuclear power generation will benefit every community in the country with clean , reliable power , but it be the community that host these new nuclear site that will see that benefit most directly . the skilled workforce that exist around our exist nuclear site will , I expect , be an important consideration for those look to develop new nuclear reactor . we expect that the nuclear sector workforce in the UK will need to double in the next few decade in response to the challenge . we recognise that we can not close the skill gap without urgent collaborative action . we have work with the Ministry of Defence and will soon launch the nuclear skill taskforce , of which I be incredibly proud . it will set out the action need to ensure that the UK ' s nuclear sector will have sufficient and appropriate nuclear skill to deliver our civil and military nuclear ambition . will the Minister give way ? I will not , because I do not want to eat into the time for the next debate . the taskforce will set out our aim and ambition , and the work involve close co - ordination with industry , across civil and military , to turbocharge the work already happen to develop the skill we need . we look forward to see the taskforce ' s final recommendation very soon . right hon . and hon . member raise extensive point about the road map . I have be advise that we want to give time for the next debate , so I will not be able to address they all today . however , I promise the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) that I would come back to his point on Hinkley Point C and Sizewell . Hinkley Point C be not a Government project . EDF Energy be responsible for its delivery . additional cost will not fall to the taxpayer , despite what hon . member might read in the press . Sizewell C will be a crucial part of the UK ' s agenda for new nuclear power . as I say , we have make available a total of £ 2 . 5 billion to support the project ' s development . last year , the Government and Sizewell C start the process to bring in private equity , back by our new regulated asset base model for nuclear , in which we have considerable confidence . the hon . Member claim that the RAB would not deliver . it be establish as an option for fund new project , follow recommendation by the National Audit Office . the most appropriate funding model will be determine by negotiation with project developer on a project - by - project basis . as I say , we have full confidence in that . I will write to the other member who take part in this debate to address their point , because important point be raise , but I do not want to eat any more into the time for the next debate . we have publish three key document , which reinforce the UK ' s position as a leader in the civil nuclear renaissance : a civil nuclear road map , a consultation on alternative route to market , and a consultation on propose policy for site new nuclear power station . the UK need to increase the resilience of its energy supply while reduce its emission . for that reason , nuclear power be a source of real optimism . the continued work of my Department and Great British Nuclear will ensure that the UK have a world - lead nuclear power industry . I be very glad to work with my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe as we turn this plan into a reality . I be grateful to the Minister for what he have say and , as he allude to in his remark , for visit both dungeness power station and the Pilot Inn at Dungeness . both be welcome visit for the local community . I thank all the member who speak in this debate , in particular my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , the Chair of the Select Committee . the issue on which the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) and I be in lockstep be probably not numerous , but this be one of they . as the Minister just say at the Dispatch Box and as be in the road map document , we recognise that to achieve the Government ' s aim , we need more nuclear site than be currently in the planning framework . those nuclear site will probably be other nuclear site that already have the technology and the connection but , for whatever reason , be not suitable in the 2011 list but will be in future . move forward , if the Government say , " we know we need extra site " , it will be helpful to give some idea of where they might be . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the civil nuclear roadmap . heart and Circulatory Diseases : Premature Deaths I beg to move , that this House have consider premature death from heart and circulatory disease . I start with something I never think that I would stand here discuss . as I share in Prime Minister ' s question a few week ago , at 47 I have a heart attack . it happen back in August last year , but I must admit that it take several month for I to feel comfortable talk about it more publicly — although I know that I be on the path to full recovery , and I feel that I be now recover . as I say in Prime Minister ' s question , I feel a bit thin for it — that be the physical response . one thing that come through , beyond the fantastic support of the NHS , to which I will refer later , friend and family and my team , be the support of the British Heart Foundation . its online resource , support and guidance be invaluable in help I when I be on my own , to find a way through this , get on the path to recovery and understand the story of other . I hope the debate will not just share my story — this be not about I — but raise awareness of the early sign and symptom and some area of prevention , as well as raise with the Minister , on behalf of other who be perhaps not as fortunate as I be , some of the challenge to early identification of risk . I will aim to cover as much as I can , but I know that other will want to speak , so I will not hog the short time we have . I hope that even one person might come away from watch this debate — I be sure there be million at home follow this debate this afternoon — able to spot a sign for themselves or for a family member or friend , which might save or change their life . to start , let we talk about the symptom . I appreciate that symptom differ slightly for everybody , and the British Heart Foundation have excellent example and guidance for what they might be . for I , it start with feel a sort of numbness and tingle sensation in my left arm and an increase tightness in my chest , which , as it grow , start to filter to the back of my body . it be not immediate . one often think of a heart attack as a cardiac arrest , which be where the heart literally stop and one need a defibrillator or cpr , but a heart attack can feel more like a slow process that happen quite quickly , if that make sense . even though many year ago , I work on campaign to talk about these symptom with the British Heart Foundation as a client of mine , and even though I know instinctively what be happen to I , as I start to get those symptom , even I think , " I don ' t want to phone 999 . I don ' t want to waste their time . " I end up call 111 , expect to hear , " Don ' t be silly ; take a pill . go to your gp tomorrow and they ' ll get you sort out . " but they do not say that . the message I have back immediately be that an ambulance be on its way , at which point , I think , " this might be a bit serious " — but even then I be still in a little denial about the situation . I will not tell the full story , but I be transfer very quickly to Watford General Hospital , where I be see and give exemplary care . the East of England Ambulance Service be absolutely incredible with its speed and the compassion and support I be give — the same be true at Watford General , a hospital I love dearly . I be then transfer to Harefield Hospital , where I be again see very quickly . during that process , I realise the enormity of the situation I be in and the potential that I could lose my life , although I be then unlikely to because I be in the right place at the right time . the hon . Gentleman mention the work of Harefield Hospital . my son have be at Harefield for four month after have a heart transplant just before Christmas ; it have be a very traumatic time . I would like to place on record the incredible support and care the hospital provide . I also want to say that we think of heart attack , heart failure and similar condition as affect people my age — maybe people a bit young or a bit old — but heart failure and heart condition can affect young people as well . we must not have lazy diagnosis where people think just because somebody be young , they can not possibly have heart issue , cancer or other issue . as I say , I really want to put on record the great support that Harefield Hospital provide . may I send my good wish to the right hon . Gentleman ' s son ? from my experience , his son be in absolutely the right place , and I hope he have a swift recovery . I echo the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment — the staff at Harefield be exemplary at every stage of the process . again , I put on record — for my own benefit , rather selfishly — my gratitude to the East of England Ambulance Service , Watford General Hospital and Harefield Hospital , but also the cardiac rehabilitation team . the experience of be in hospital and have a heart attack be a matter of day , but that of the rehabilitation , exercise programme and diet change — all the thing that be so important — be a matter of month . I can talk about it not so much as have save my life , but it have change my life . I can not say that I be pleased that it happen , but I be pleased that it happen the way it do , if that make sense , in make a difference . I recognise that my experience be not unique , however lucky I be in the experience I have have and the subsequent opportunity to use the platform of Parliament to raise awareness of these condition and the work of the British Heart Foundation and the NHS . it just feel very apt to have this debate this month because it be World Heart Month . back - Bench debate be an opportunity to have these conversation and to raise concern . cardiovascular disease include condition that affect the heart and circulation , include high blood pressure , stroke and vascular dementia , which I will refer to collectively in the debate as CVD . over the past six decade , huge stride have be make in improve outcome for those affect by CVD , with the annual number of death fall by around half since the 1960 in part thank to decade of medical and scientific breakthrough . that be why research be just so essential . today , more than 7 million people be live with heart and circulatory disease in the UK , and they cause more than a quarter of all UK death . in 2022 alone , over 39 , 000 people in England die prematurely of cardiovascular condition . that is , on average , 750 people a week . just to provide a sense of scale , that would fill the Chamber two time over . despite the premature death rate for CVD continue to fall by 11 % between 2012 and 2019 , sadly it remain one of the UK ' s big killer . the British Heart Foundation be do a lot of work to raise awareness of waiting list go up for heart test and treatment . we need to ensure that we tackle that head on . there be no room for manoeuvre on this . let we keep move forward to make a difference . More analysis be need . from lifesave research by the British Heart Foundation , we know that the cause of premature death from CVD be multifaceted and complex . the NHS long - term care plan intend to look at many of those area , but I call on the Government to be bold and consider co - ordinate action to address the issue in three way . I urge they to prioritise heart care within the NHS to accelerate vital care ; to ensure well protection from heart disease by address the driver and underlie health condition , such as obesity and smoking ; and finally , to create a research and development ecosystem for breakthrough , treatment and cure . I welcome the significant work already under way through the Government ' s major condition strategy and the inclusion of cardiovascular disease in it . the interim report , publish last summer by the Department of Health and Social Care , make clear the scale and urgency of the Government ' s priority to address this issue . Urgency be absolutely key here . around 80 % of case of CVD be attribute to modifiable risk factor such as high blood pressure , obesity , poor diet and smoking , make CVD largely preventable through a number of lifestyle choice . politically , I be not one who think that the state should intervene and stop people from be able to enjoy their life , but I think education be key . education can come through many different mean , include engagement with the NHS and GPs provide advice . it be not about the state stop people make lifestyle choice , but it be fair enough to let they know what those lifestyle choice might lead to , and what can make a big difference to they and their family . nearly two third of adult in the UK , around 64 % , be overweight or live with obesity . up to 8 million people have either undiagnose or uncontrolle high blood pressure . from my own personal experience , I admit that I know I be not go to be run in the Olympics any time soon — I can not exactly describe myself as an Adonis — but while I know I be slightly overweight , I think I would be okay . I think that these thing do not happen to somebody at the age of 47 . like most of we , I think these thing happen to somebody else . that be the way our mind work . this be a wake - up call for I , and that be why I want to make a wake - up call to other from this wonderful platform of the House of Commons Chamber . do not assume that it be all okay . get check out and make sure that you watch out for the sign . I therefore welcome the Government ' s ambition to halve childhood obesity by 2030 , and to help adult reach a healthy weight through a range of preventive measure to empower people to take control of their own health . of course , everyone have different way of do that . I will not share my own dietary habit , because I be sure that some dietician will watch this and tell I I have get it totally wrong , but I have lose about 2 stone in the past four or five month . I do not do it by fast — I know the Prime Minister do his fast each week , so I will not comment on that — or by adopt a fad diet ; I simply make some small change in my lifestyle and the way I live my life . like many people , we as member of Parliament work long hour . my father be a lorry driver , and I be proud of the long hour he work and the work that he do to bring I up . our job here be not particularly physical , but it do involve long hour and be quite sedentary at time , and the same probably apply to the job of a great many people throughout the UK . be mindful of that , and go for a walk and get a bit of exercise , can make a big difference . the NHS long - term plan set out the Government ' s determination to prevent 150 , 000 heart attack , stroke and dementia case over the course of 10 year . I welcome the focus on early intervention to help people live long , healthy life , but we all know that smoking be still the single lead behavioural cause of preventable death in this country . I very much support the Government ' s desire for a smoke - free generation by 2030 , and I be glad they be press on with a tobacco and vape Bill to ensure that child who be now 14 or young — that is , anyone bear on or after 1 April 2009 — can never legally be sell tobacco product . address lifestyle concern and identify underlying condition early could help to prevent ten of thousand of heart attack and stroke , and could support the Government ' s ambition to increase healthy life expectancy by five year by 2035 , but I think it mean more than that . to I , it mean that a child will grow up see their father or their mother . it mean that friend and family can see a love one reach the age at which they can call that person a grandparent , or that person can see they graduate . this , for I , be not just about government policy ; it be about the impact on real people who can be help to lead a positive life . when we talk about heart attack , heart disease and the other issue we be discuss today , we be of course talk about premature death , but for most people who be affect those condition constitute a restriction on their life , and I want to ensure that we improve that situation for everyone in the country . I be proud to say that the UK continue to lead the way in medical research , establish innovative method of early diagnosis and effective treatment . as many member will know , I campaign vigorously with West Hertfordshire teaching Hospitals NHS Trust to secure the necessary funding for the new hospital in Watford , and it be a proud and important moment when we do . one reason I support that so strongly be the incredible work I see be do at Watford General Hospital , especially in relation to the virtual hospital programme . it have lead the way in show that there be other way of support people ' s health , particularly at home , and adopt the idea of use technology and datum to help improve people ' s lifestyle . the beauty of the modern age be that many app can give people guidance on their health . they have Apple watch or fitbit or whatever else be out there ; I do not want to go down the route of one particular brand . we be now able to track so much more of our health , but I think we need more education on what that datum mean . we can all see our heart rate , but what be the actual impact on people ' s life ? virtual care be important in this regard , but — I will not go too far down this route , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I think it be for a different debate — I have long argue for what I call datum donation . at present someone who sadly lose their life may donate an organ , but if we could donate our lifestyle datum throughout our life , the NHS and other organisation could start ask themselves whether they could , for instance , cure cancer by use that datum , which would be anonymise , with all the necessary check and balance to ensure that it be do well . I be conscious of the time , and I be sure that I be go over my allocate period , but I want to highlight the fact that despite all the development , CVD continue to have an impact on the wide economy , cost an estimate £ 21 billion annually in England alone . as I say , behind every figure be a person or a family who have be deeply affect by these condition . as part of this process , I be fortunate to work with the House of Commons Chamber engagement team , who reach out to constituent across the country to share their own experience in preparation for this debate . I believe that the correspondence should be in the Library ; if not , I will make sure that it be share with colleague and put online . one respondent really move I . they say that their daughter " have half a work heart ; she ' s have two open heart surgery and will need another . if it hadn ' t be detect early , she wouldn ' t be with we today . " that be a life , an ambition and a future that be still there because of the support that have be give . I know that I be do a bit of a plug for the British Heart Foundation today , but one of the other comment , which ring true with my experience , be that the " British Heart Foundation have a brilliant website for fact , and the consultant team we be under at our local hospital be fantastic . " there be many quote from people share very similar story . a common concern , though , be about aftercare follow surgery or medical treatment and the effect that people ' s condition have have on they mentally and socially . from my own experience , I have to admit that I suddenly start to feel twinge all the time and think , " be there something wrong with I ? be it happen again ? " my experience be that within two week of have a heart attack , I promise that I would go to a local event ; I do not want to let people down . I remember go to it on a sear hot day . I be genuinely frightened about go out in the heat with people and not know whether my body would still work in the way I hope it would . I be glad I do it , because once I have go through the experience of be there and realise that I could still be I , I be able to overcome that and continue to work as safely and as good I could as I recover . however , not everybody get that opportunity . when someone have have a physical illness , particularly when it affect the heart , it be easy for they to suddenly worry that they do not have control over themselves , and they do not know what might happen next . I must admit that there have be many time when something have twinge and I have think , " be this a heart attack again ? " thankfully , it have not be , but aftercare be absolutely essential . we can fix the body , but help to support the mind through that psychological process be absolutely essential . I know that colleague in the House will have far more powerful story about their experience than mine , and I look forward to hear they later . this be about multidisciplinary care that do not end when the patient leave the hospital . it be about support their full recovery and help they with some lifestyle change . I have to admit that the cardiac rehabilitation team I work with be phenomenal . when I be extremely concerned , they would put my mind at rest , which mean that I be well physically and mentally . I therefore ask the Minister whether consideration will be give to offer counselling service and mental health support to those affect by heart and circulatory condition . as I have say , heart and circulatory disease cause a quarter of all death in England , amount to over 140 , 000 each year , 480 a day or one every three minute . sadly , in the time that I have speak today , five people will have lose their life . I therefore call for urgent action to do more to protect our heart . by prioritise the right action and supercharge the progress that have be make on address heart and circulatory disease , we can improve the nation ' s health , grow the economy and give people hope for a bright , healthy future . rise — order . it will be obvious to the House that we have very little time this afternoon , so I hope that Members will limit their remark to around five minute . five minute ? would the hon . gentleman like to find some way to make the House sit long ? no , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be just rather surprised . we often have three hour for Backbench Business debate , but we have end up with an hour . I appreciate the point that the hon . Gentleman be make , but there be nothing I can do about it now . Don ' t we all sometimes wish that we could turn back the clock ? I do not have that power . I thank the hon . member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) for secure this important debate , and for share his personal experience of suffer a heart attack . I be delighted to see that he have make such a strong recovery that he can be here in the Chamber today . I be sure that many member have be affect by cardiac disease , or know people close to they who have be deeply affect by this appalling and shocking killer . the Library briefing pack for this debate contain a startling statistic . almost casually , it mention that cardiovascular death per 100 , 000 population have rise by 10 % since 2019 , after fall steadily for decade . order . I apologise for interrupt the hon . Gentleman , but I have take what he have just say to heart . I have do my good to squeeze out more time , and he can have around seven minute . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . that be a 40 % increase . ask and ye shall receive . the previous steady reduction follow major improvement in public health policy , reduction in risk factor such as smoking , and the controlling of blood pressure , as well as improvement in medical care . although I be grateful to the hon . member for Watford for secure this debate , and to the other member who will contribute , there be an elephant in the room — indeed , there be so few speaker that there be probably room for a herd of elephant . why have there be a significant uptick in cardiac death in recent year ? what novel intervention in public health have occur since 2019 ? some might think that covid be the cause . not so . the same uptick in cardiac death be observable in Australia and Singapore before those country get covid but after they roll out the experimental messenger ribonucleic acid injection . ah , the jab ! I can see some member tutte and turn away . everyone know that mps with a science degree be few and far between , and that some Members ’ eye glaze over when science be discuss . well , I be one of those mp fortunate enough to have a science degree . another be Margaret Thatcher , who be rather prouder of be the first Prime Minister with a science degree than of be the first woman Prime Minister , and rightly so . some member appear to have prejudge the issue . it be often say that it be easy to fool someone than to persuade they that they have be fool . for posterity , we must remember that it be 11 year after the thalidomide scandal be expose in 1961 before the word " thalidomide " be mention in the Chamber . I refuse to let this new mammoth medical scandal be ignore in the same way . we be witness to the great medical scandal in decade — perhaps in live memory , and possibly ever . it be big than thalidomide and big than the Tuskegee untreated syphilis scandal , in which some black people be deliberately not treat to see what would happen to their body over time . it might be big than the Vioxx scandal , hitherto the grandaddy of medical scandal . I can see some member look puzzle . Vioxx be a new drug invent by Merck as an alternative to aspirin — a mild painkiller . a researcher first highlight an issue to Merck ' s senior management in 1997 , two year before the drug be approve . one in 115 people who take Vioxx suffer a heart attack . Merck ' s profit from Vioxx comfortably exceed the criminal fine , the compensation and the litigation cost after the drug be pull . it be a good business decision for Merck . not one pharma executive go to jail for skew the trial result , for deceive the regulator or for recklessly cause the death of 60 , 000 ordinary Americans for profit . it be always for profit — life tragically cut short , family destroy and child devastate . imagine the incentive structure in an industry where profit like that can be make , and the corporate greed where there be full immunity from prosecution . in 1986 , pharma company get immunity in the USA for all vaccine . the number of vaccine administer to child in America have explode since then . do the hon . member share my hope that the Minister , in respond to the debate , will address the article in the Daily Sceptic on 20 February this year by Will Jones , headline " Covid vaccine link to large Increase in heart , Blood and Neurological Disorders , Major Study Finds " ? I hope that the Minister will address that , and of course this will go on . cardiac death be already the big killer in our country , but we have a mysterious 10 % increase . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman , like other in the Chamber , have witness the horrify sight of super - fit athlete keel over on pitch around the world . a mountain of peer - review evidence be emerge and hypothesis be be propose . numerous cardiologist have concern , but unfortunately , many expert do not feel able to speak out openly about their concern because of the climate of fear , and the consequence of whistleblowe or speak out against big pharma , which have so often be find to be not operate in the public interest , and cause harm . I be afraid that we will see much the same , follow the roll - out of the covid - 19 vaccine , as we see with Vioxx and thalidomide , and in so many other case . the evidence be mount up so rapidly , and the only people who can not appreciate what be go on in this country be those who really do not want to see . the public will be extremely harsh on this Parliament and our response to the covid - 19 pandemic , include the roll - out of the vaccine . we be go to stop vaccinate after the over - 70 , but we then decide that vaccination would include the over - 50 . we then decide it would be for everyone . then this House take the appalling decision , unsupported by the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation , in September 2021 to vaccinate child who be at very little risk , if any , of covid , but who have be harm seriously by the vaccine . why ever do we use a systemic vaccine for a mucosal respiratory virus ? one expert say last year : " it be not surprising that none of the predominantly mucosal respiratory virus have ever be effectively control by vaccine . this observation raise a question of fundamental importance : if natural mucosal respiratory virus infection do not elicit complete and long - term protective immunity against reinfection , how can we expect vaccine " to work , when natural immunity do not give protection ? and what be the name of this expert ? Mr Anthony Fauci , the former head of the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention in America , who push the vaccine . I wish I have more time , Madam Deputy Speaker ; this be a huge issue and we need to debate it again . it be the big killer of our constituent , and our fear be that the rate of increase in cardiac death will not slow in the UK , or the rest of the world . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) , as I often seem to in these debate , which often resemble Madame Tussauds : the same face appear , time after time . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , I have a reputation for brevity in my speech , and I intend to support that reputation now . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) on secure this important and rather timely debate , and I echo the hon . member for North West Leicestershire in say that we enjoy see he look so fit and healthy after the trauma that he have . this be a really important matter , and he be right to raise it today . as I highlight in last month ' s Westminster Hall debate on excess death trend , a recent article in the Lancet find that although the cause of ongoing excess death in the UK " be likely to be multiple " , Office for National Statistics datum show some clear trend — in particular , the " large relative excess death " since the pandemic occur in young and middle - aged adult , with the number of cardiac death happen outside hospital be the most elevated . in other word , young and previously healthy people be die at home from cardiac - relate event , and we do not know why . these be not just number and statistic — these be real people , love one , often from young age group , who be die before their time . it be urgent and our duty to get to the bottom of the situation soon rather than later . as I be sure we be all aware , there be many theory circulate about the cause of these excess death . one be the possibility of a causal link between the population - wide use of covid - 19 vaccine and the marked increase in cardiovascular - relate critical event , include heart attack and stroke , among otherwise apparently healthy people . we do not know if that be the cause or not , because the data be not be release . until certain datum set be release , it be impossible to rule that theory in or out . that be why I , along with cross - party colleague , write yesterday to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care ; Professor Steven Riley , the director general for datum at the UK Health Security Agency ; and Dr Alison Cave , the chief safety officer at the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency . we warn that by withhold official datum , the Department , UKHSA and MHRA be help fuel concern and hesitancy about public health . we have ask that anonymise record - level official mortality datum be release , alongside vaccination date , dose and co - morbidity , without delay . we understand that the MHRA have collect and already share this datum with pharmaceutical company to enable those company to produce post - authorisation safety study for their product , so I see no reason why it can not also be share with parliamentarian and the public right away . will the Minister say whether that datum have be share with pharmaceutical company ? if so , why be not be share with the rest of we ? as the Minister surely realise , repetitive generic assurance that the Government and the ukhsa take excess death " seriously " and monitor they " constantly " , and that the MHRA have " system in place to continually monitor the safety of our medicine " — [ Official Report , 16 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 235WH . ] do not serve to reassure anybody at all . likewise , the news from the Office for National Statistics this week that it have revise its excess death methodology , and that there be suddenly 20 , 000 few excess death last year , have do little to quell public concern . if anything , it have do the exact opposite : people cynically see it as a convenient sleight of hand . as we say in our letter , if the Government and their agency be not willing to share the datum we have request , will the Minister explain to we why not ? we be all on the same side and want to look after people . we be all concerned to do the good we can for everybody , but until we have all the datum , we just do not know what we do not know . if there be any potential that public health intervention , such as covid - 19 vaccine , be cause harm and premature death to some , we must act on that without delay . if the evidence show that that there be no issue , then it be in everybody ' s interest for that reassurance to be in the public domain as quickly as possible . if that information be in the public domain , then the Prime Minister would have be able to answer the question that he be ask in the GB News interview the night before last . my hon . friend be right . it be in everybody ' s interest that the information be in the public domain , so that we can reassure people , or at least let they know . frankly , there be never any harm in give people information and let they make their own mind up about what have happen . opinion need to be put to one side , and the datum need to be examine in the cold , hard light of day . otherwise , we will do harm to people , and we will do even more and irreparable damage to trust in public health policy . I hope that the Minister will provide some reassurance that the datum will be forthcoming as soon as possible , and that the Government do not give the impression that there be something to hide . I commend the hon . member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) for set the scene today . we have speak many time on this issue . it be a real pleasure to see he back to health and strength , and work very effectively in this House . the rate of premature death from heart and circulatory disease do not make for easy reading . the British Heart Foundation have be clear about how stark the situation be . as the DUP ' s health spokesperson , I try to involve myself in all health matter — whether they be in ministerial question or in debate — in this Chamber or in Westminster Hall , because that be part of my duty . the number of people die before the age of 75 from heart and circulatory disease have rise to the high level in more than a decade . waiting list for heart operation and other heart procedure be nearly 100 , 000 high than they be a year ago . those figure be stark and worrying . I be very pleased to see the Minister in her place . we all have great respect for she . although we do not want to burden she with question , we do need to ask ourselves why these figure be so high and what be be do to reduce they . worryingly , there be more people over the age of 75 wait over a year for treatment — the rate be 140 time high than before the pandemic begin . late figure show that , in 2022 , more than 39 , 000 people in England die prematurely of cardiovascular condition , include heart attack , coronary heart disease and stroke — an average of some 750 people each week . again , worryingly , that be the high total since 2008 . what be be do to address those issue ? this backwards trend — because that be what it be — have be broadly mirror in age - standardise premature death rate , which account for change and difference in population size and demographic . before 2012 , the number and rate of death from these condition under the age of 75 be fall , in part thank to decade of medical and scientific breakthrough . but after nearly a decade of slow progress , recent statistic show that the rate of premature death from cardiovascular disease have now increase in England for three year back to back . this be the first time that there have be a clear reversal in the trend for almost 60 year . again , the question must be : what have bring that about and what have be do to stop it . the British Heart Foundation have say : " the reason for the rise be multiple and complex . while increase pressure on the NHS and the covid - 19 pandemic have likely contribute in recent year , the warning sign have be present for over a decade . " if those sign have be present for over a decade , the question we must all ask be : what step have be take to slow the trend that have be there for some time . I know that there will be many in this Chamber with opinion as to the cause . I do not hold a medical degree . I be a very simple person , but I do have an interest in health and I do ask the question . the fact be that the sharp rise need to be well manage . I can quickly give some example of what we be do back home in Northern Ireland . we have a develop plan with the Irish Football Association that include more defibrillator and cpr training , which be really important . many people who be fit and healthy — the hon . member for Watford refer to this — have have heart attack on the football pitch . those be thing that we need to address . may I commend the Chest , Heart and Stroke charity back home for all that it do ? this month in Northern Ireland , 340 people will die from heart or circulatory disease , around 90 of whom will be young than 75 year of age . some 225 , 000 people be live with a heart or circulatory disease , 320 hospital admission will be due to a heart attack , 130 people will die from coronary heart disease , and 13 baby will be diagnose with a heart defect this year . those be the figure for Northern Ireland . the statistic be shocking , especially give the small size of Northern Ireland . there be an estimate 225 , 000 people live with heart and circulatory disease in Northern Ireland . an age and grow population and improved survival rate from heart and circulatory event could see these number rise still far . it be clear that this really be a tick timebomb and therefore we do seek some help from the Minister here . I can see the Minister formulate her response . both she and I be glad to see that the Northern Ireland Assembly be up and run . as health be a devolved matter , may I ask she in a genuine fashion , as I always do , whether she can indicate what discussion will take place with the Department of Health in Northern Ireland . we in Northern Ireland be in the situation in which every region of the UK find itself : there be not enough funding , not enough staff , and not enough support . across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , we need to address the grow problem with solution , which can only come about with reasonably pay staff and a well system . let we exchange our thought and idea , and move forward together towards a system where we can help each other . an overhaul of the system be need , and we look to the Minister for a plan of action , begin here in this place and extend through the NHS and across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . you tell I to finish within a certain time , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I have just do it . I congratulate the hon . member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) on secure this debate on such an important and prevalent issue . he and I have a share interest in health inequality , largely due to our personal experience . he and I join the House at the same time . I remember sit in this very Chamber for his maiden speech , in which he quote Sir Elton John ' s song " I ' m still stand . " I be absolutely delighted that we be both still stand . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] just a few short month after my hon . friend ' s maiden speech — I will call he my hon . friend — I be in rehab recover from a stroke . " I ' m still stand " be one of the song that we ironically listen to while do physio — a dark sense of humour can be a powerful tool in the face of adversity , but of course we need to equip people with more than just a sense of humour to get through these very difficult condition . this issue be one that my party and I be deeply concerned about , with nearly three in 10 scot die from heart and circulatory disease , equate to about 50 people per day or 1 , 500 people per month . prevent those death , and in particular premature death , be something that the Scottish Government be commit to . the hon . member for Watford outline the sign and symptom of many heart and circulatory condition . I commend he for shine a light on they . we can not overestimate the impact that a debate like this will have . support for the mind after a health trauma be necessary , as he also outline . after my stroke , I do not realise that I need help for my mental health until I reach a crisis point . get help be the good thing that I could have do for myself . that support need to be there for everyone . as we have hear , there be clear risk factor for develop cardiovascular disease centre around people ' s lifestyle . we can call they lifestyle choice , but the choice be often heavily influence by inequality and poverty . we know that people in poverty have poor health outcome , and improve people ' s ability to make healthy choice on diet , smoking and alcohol consumption be essential to change that . we know that sadly the prevalence rate for circulatory and cardiovascular disease be significantly high in the most deprive area . we also know that poverty rate be high for some minority ethnic group , and therefore they be often disproportionally vulnerable to health inequality . that be why improve health and reduce health inequality across Scotland be clear priority for the Scottish Government , especially in the face of UK Government austerity measure . the British Heart Foundation say that there have be " a lack of meaningful action " from the British Government " over the last 10 year to address many of the cause of heart disease and stroke , such as stubbornly high obesity rate " . obesity and unhealthy lifestyle choice be intrinsically link to poverty . that be why the SNP ' s action to mitigate the effect of this Tory Government ' s cost of living crisis be so important to today ' s debate . recent analysis from the British Heart Foundation show that the number of people die before the age of 75 in England from heart and circulatory disease have rise to the high level in over a decade . we know that 700 , 000 people in Scotland be live with circulatory disease . we do not know how much that be affect by covid - 19 or other factor , but it be clear that an increasingly unhealthy population play a key role in these worrying statistic . this be why the SNP ' s focus on tackle these inequality and tackle poverty be such an important and proactive step in reduce these premature death . the Scottish Government ' s focus and commitment to tackle poverty and other risk factor relate to cardiovascular disease be despite this Tory Government ' s austerity measure . the british Government ' s austerity policy be harm the economy across these isle , drive more people into poverty and make our health outcome bad . health inequality be rampant the length and breadth of these isle . I stand here as proof of that . I have cancer as a teenager and have a stroke in my mid - 20 — an example of the health inequality prevalent in the west of Scotland . economic austerity be to blame for the slow progress in health outcome over the past decade . the british Government would do well to cast their eye up to Scotland and consider a focus on our wellbee economy , with people at its heart , as we do . funding — or , in this case , the lack of it — be a political choice . the UK have considerable wealth , so it be shameful that so many people be in poverty and that their health be suffer as a result . the level of universal credit have be too low for too long . the SNP and the Scottish Government continue to call on the UK Government to introduce an essential guarantee to ensure that social security benefit adequately cover the cost of essential good and properly support our most vulnerable people . the Scottish Government have go to great length to increase income for scot by promote fair work and improve the value of social security through bold measure such as the scottish child payment and the real living wage . I know that we be short of time , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will bring my remark to a conclusion . I urge the Government , and whomever form the next Government , to consider take the Scottish Government ' s approach to tackle health inequality by reduce poverty and guarantee that people have the resource to make healthy lifestyle choice . it be abundantly clear that while Scotland be tie to this place , Westminster and the british Government hold the purse string , and any action that the Scottish Government take can be outdo by austerity measure in this place . only with the full power of independence will we truly be able to tackle health inequality in Scotland and reduce the number of premature death from cardiovascular disease . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate and pay tribute to the hon . member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) for secure it . I think we all agree that he make an excellent and heartfelt speech not just about his own experience , but about the effect on his family and his team . he thank the British Heart Foundation , and I agree that the resource of such organisation be well receive at such time , which can often be very lonely . we wish he and his family the good of health go forward . my right hon . friend the Member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) , who be no long in his place , speak about his experience as a family member of a young person who have suffer a heart condition , and the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) , highlight her own experience . cardio - vascular disease affect not only we , but our family too . as have be say , every week in 2022 an average of 750 people die prematurely of cardiovascular disease , include heart attack and stroke . every premature death be of course a tragedy , and our thought be with all affected family . NHS England have report that cardiovascular disease be responsible for one in four premature death in the UK . as we have hear , the rate of premature death have rise for the past three year consecutively — that be something that we all wish to understand . many of my constituent , and people across the country , be worried about the state of heart and circulatory disease service . despite the good effort of staff , there be a significant backlog in treatment , the number of people on waiting list for cardiology service be rise , with a huge 189 % increase in the past 10 year . accord to the Institute for Public Policy Research , wait time for cardiology treatment have rise even more sharply than for elective waiting list as a whole . that be deeply concern , because long wait mean poor outcome for patient , often with devastating result . an estimate 7 . 6 million in the UK be currently live with heart or circulatory disease . it be vital that every one of those people receive effective and timely diagnosis , referral and treatment , yet under this government the NHS have lurch from crisis to crisis , and far too many patient be not receive that timely care . labour have an ambitious 10 - year plan of reform and modernisation to speed up treatment , with 2 million more appointment a year . we want to return to the constitutional waiting - time target within a Parliament . as our mission set out , it be vital to restore the NHS as a world - lead health system — something that we have lose under this government . the Government have promise to eradicate wait of over a year for elective care by 2025 . it would be good if the Minister indicate whether they be on track to do just that . labour have a mission to reduce death from heart attack and stroke by a quarter within 10 year , so that few life be lose to the big killer . under our " fit for the Future " fund , we would double the number of scanner — speed up heart and circulatory disease diagnosis — and ensure that patient receive the timely treatment that be so vital for manage those condition . we would also incentivise continuity of care in general practice , which would improve care in our community for people live with heart and circulatory disease . it would be helpful if the Minister explain why , in the past 14 year of Conservative Government , we have see such paltry ambition on cardiovascular care and a decline in cardiovascular health . the Minister be probably go to talk about the major condition strategy , which be announce 13 year into the conservative party ' s time in power , but when can we expect the full strategy to be publish , and will it explore the reason for the backward trend in cardiovascular disease that we be currently see ? I agree with other hon . member : we all need to understand the reason for that . one of the most concern aspect of cardiovascular disease in this country be that many of its driver be high in area of great deprivation and , as we have hear , for black and minority ethnic group . that be exacerbate health inequality ; we have hear from the SNP spokesman , the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire , and from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) about the level in their community . in 2022 , those in the most deprive 10 % of the population in England be more than twice as likely to die prematurely from circulatory disease than those in the least deprive 10 % of the population , something I see very much in my own constituency of Bristol South . that be utterly unacceptable across the United Kingdom in the 21st century , particularly give that cardiovascular disease be largely preventable . tackle the issue that impact cardiovascular health , from obesity to high blood pressure or smoking , be vital — not only to tackle CVD , but to improve population health overall . that be why we have to tackle social inequality that influence health and focus more on prevention , improve capacity in local public health team that do so much vital work to improve the health of their community . innovation will also be vital to centre prevention in our health service , and I would welcome an update from the Minister about the NHS digital health check trial in Cornwall . give that result from that trial will inform the roll - out this spring , can the Minister indicate any challenge apparent in the trial ? when can we expect the result to be publish ? as we have hear , prevention start long before the age of 40 , when that health check take place . that be why Labour will introduce a child health action plan that will put prevention at the top of the agenda , ensure that the next generation can live healthy life . there be also widespread concern that the restructuring of the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities could have a detrimental impact on health inequality . it would be good to hear a reassurance from the Minister about how those concern about health inequality will be prioritise in the event of change to that body . finally , research be crucial to prevent further premature death . that be why Labour ' s regulatory innovation office would make Britain the good place in the world to innovate by speed up decision and provide a clear direction base on our modern industrial strategy , alongside a plan to make it easy for more patient to participate in clinical trial . that will deliver well treatment to patient . we owe that to all those family who have lose a love one to premature death , as well as those who — we be pleased to see — be survive and live well with this disease . we must improve outcome ; I look forward to hear the Minister ' s comment on the major condition strategy , but that strategy must be deliver in tandem with a plan to provide the NHS with the staff , technology and resource it need to bring down waiting list and improve patient care . I be pleased that a future Labour Government have a plan to do just that . first , may I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) , and say how pleased we all be to see he fight fit and in his place ? I also say to the right hon . member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) that we wish his son absolutely all the good and a speedy return to full health , and to the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) — who have have so many health problem of her own — that we all wish she very well and a full recovery . some very good contribution have be make to today ' s debate . I would just like to mention a very , very dear friend of mine who die of a sudden cardiac arrest very unexpectedly aged 55 . it be a tragedy for his young family , so I really do understand — thankfully not personally , but through very close friend — how terrible this be . I will write to the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) and my hon . friend the Members for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) and Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) about the statistic . I do not have any information today ; I want to focus on the Government ' s strategy for prevent cardiovascular disease , but I will write to they . as ever , I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for his thoughtful remark , and say to he that I have already be in contact with the Minister in Northern Ireland about the smoking Bill . meet with he will be one of my early priority . my hon . friend the Member for Watford be a vocal supporter of the British Heart Foundation . on behalf of the Government , I thank the BHF for all the incredible work it have do throughout Heart Month , include introduce online cpr training that take just 15 minute to complete — 15 minute that could genuinely save a life . I also pay tribute to the many other charity that work tirelessly to support people at risk of , or live with , cardiovascular disease . over the last decade , the Government have take significant action to prevent cardiovascular disease and its cause . just over 10 year ago , we launch the NHS health check , which be our CVD prevention programme . health check play a key role in prevent heart disease , stroke , type 2 diabete , and some case of dementia and kidney disease . the number show that , through health check , people have a low likelihood of be admit to hospital for CVD and type 2 diabete , and for all cause of death one , three and five year after attend a check . so far , well over 10 million check have be deliver , and data show more people be receive check than before the pandemic . we be now invest £ 17 million in the creation of a digital NHS health check . in fact , we be look at every opportunity to prevent CVD throughout the course of a person ' s life . two year ago , the NHS publish its CVD prevention recovery plan , set out four high - impact area for every part of the health service to focus on risk factor detection and management . this begin by roll out blood pressure check in high street pharmacy and help people measure blood pressure at home , and we be now help thousand more people detect hypertension early . our forthcoming major condition strategy will focus on prevention throughout the life course , which be essential in create a more sustainable NHS . it aim to improve care and health outcome for those live with multiple condition and an increasingly complex set of need . we be tackle salt , sugar and calorie through the voluntary reduction and reformulation programme . work with industry , we have already deliver reduction of up to 20 % in some food . the second pillar of our prevention plan be smoke cessation . I be proud to be part of a Government who will introduce the ground - break smokefree generation , so that child age 15 and young will never legally be sell cigarette . this will be the most significant public health intervention in a generation . I now turn to manage risk factor . once we have diagnose hypertension , it be vital that we properly manage it , and we be do more than ever before . among those under the age of 80 with GP - record hypertension , 170 , 000 more people have their condition manage to safe level by March 2023 compare with the same month in 2020 . the NHS have set hypertension management as a key priority , invest over £ 3 million to bring CVD leadership role within every integrate care board . we recognise that outcome be often bad in different part of the country , and understand why variation occur be critical so that the NHS can take the right action . I support it in its launch of CVDPREVENT , a national primary care audit , which will provide datum to highlight gap in diagnosis , identify inequality and find room for improvement . I be confident that the programme will help integrate care system make real change in their area . a heart attack be a medical emergency , and recognise the symptom can be a matter of life or death . People ' s chance of survive a heart attack be far great if they seek care as soon as possible . in August last year , the NHS launch a lifesaving campaign , help people to recognise the common sign of a heart attack that be often dismiss or ignore , and to seek help by call 999 . I absolutely applaud my hon . friend for raise his specific symptom in this Chamber so that other can understand more about what to look out for . of those who reach hospital early to receive treatment , about nine in 10 survive a heart attack , compare with only seven in 10 of those who do not . that be why raise public awareness be so critical . to improve survival rate for out - of - hospital cardiac arrest case , the Government have announce a new £ 1 million fund to expand defibrillator access in the community . we have already deliver over 700 defibrillator towards an estimate total of 1 , 000 . we be also take huge stride in make our nhs simple by provide for patient at home , because we know that patient prefer to avoid hospital if they can be safely support in their own home . the NHS programme " manage heart failure @ home " be pioneer this approach , and address health inequality as a key aim . thank to record funding , we be roll out up to 160 community diagnostic centre , which will provide echocardiography service by March 2025 , and I be pleased to update the House that 153 cdc be live at this time . will the Minister join I in congratulate East Dunbartonshire Council on its good work in get so many community defibrillator for use across East Dunbartonshire ? absolutely . I be happy to do that , and I would encourage all local authority across the country to make good use of the fund that be available to they . let I turn to mental health and counselling service . as my hon . friend the Member for Watford discuss , survive a heart attack can have significant psychological impact on individual and their family , and I be grateful to he for share his own experience so powerfully . integrate NHS talk therapy with physical health service can provide well support to people with combine physical and mental health need , include people with cardiovascular disease . the right hon . Lady be make an important point . this should not be a bolt - on . it should be part and parcel of the treatment . we tend to address the physical side of the illness , open the door and away we go , and we do not ask people about some of the issue that they be struggle to cope with . I completely agree with the right hon . Gentleman . as part of the NHS long - term plan , all integrate care board be expect to expand service locally by commission NHS talk therapy service integrate into physical healthcare pathway . I encourage anyone experience symptom of depression , anxiety or post - traumatic stress disorder , even a long time after the event , to reach out to their gp or NHS talk therapy for support . to conclude , I thank my hon . friend for raise such an important issue . across the House we all share the ambition to bring down premature death from heart and circulatory disease . specifically , this Government aim to prevent 150 , 000 heart attack , stroke and dementia case in the next five year . prevention be not only kind but so much cheap than cure . I thank the Minister for her response to the debate , and all the contributor , include the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , my hon . friend the Members for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) and for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) , and the incredibly moving point raise by the right hon . member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) . I truly wish his son the good of health — he be in the right place in Harefield Hospital . I also remember the joy of see the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) , my hon . friend , when she return . we be on the Health and Social Care Committee when we first join Parliament , and it be a joy when she return . I be pleased she be do so well . several theme come out today , and one that several member raise be about transparency and datum . the more transparency we have in datum , the easy it be to calm people ' s concern . the three outcome be about protection , include through education , and ensure that we protect our society and that people know the harm they might be do to themselves . we must focus on that area , as well as on opportunity to break through with research . I thank the Minister for the work the Government be do , and if anyone at home be worried , they should get check . if they be concerned that they have symptom , they should get they look at . it be well to get rid of fear before the event than to wait for they to become a reality and have to deal with the outcome of that . I thank all contributor , and I hope everybody have learn something from today ' s debate . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider premature death from heart and circulatory disease . petition - face to Face Banking Services I rise to present this petition on behalf of my constituent in Hornsey and Wood Green , who be angry and disappoint that Barclays bank wish to close its busy crouch end branch , barely a year after it close its Muswell Hill branch . before that , it close the Wood Green and highgate village branch . it must be a world record for four branch of one bank to close in an area . it be deeply disappointing that a bank start off by Quakers in the 1690s have such a poor sense of how to serve its community . many of those who sign my petition be old resident . they tell I that they feel " leave out and discriminate against " because they be be push online when they want to talk to " people not machine " . a lot say how anxious they be about become victim of fraud and how to travel to the next bank would take a round trip of an hour on two bus . almost half of all bank across the country that be open in 2015 have close . that be bad for customer , bad for business and bad for our die high street , and action need to be take . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to act to protect essential in - person banking service . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Hornsey and Wood Green , declare that the petitioner be extremely disappointed at the announcement of the closure of Barclays Crouch End branch in March 2024 ; note that this be barely more than a year since their Muswell Hill branch close ; far declare that bank branch be the heart of community , and be rely upon by local community , especially old and disabled people , those who need access to cash and those without internet banking ; and far declare that they be also vital for local business . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to act to protect essential in - person banking service . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002915 ] Mole Valley Local Plan Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) I thank the Minister and her official for come , and I thank she in advance , because I be hope for an excellent , useful response . I realise that I be pick on a specific planning case that be under an inspector ' s review , so the Minister can only respond in the round and not to the specific case . I come to London from an area of open green hill , bush , tree — the lot — from horizon to horizon , and arrive in east London be more than a shock . I then move to Mole Valley , so I be particularly delighted that the voter of Mole Valley have return I as their MP several time . Mole Valley be south of London , border on the M25 with Epsom and Ewell , with Guildford to the west and Gatwick to the east , and it be halfway to worthe go south . what distinguish it from London be the green open space . there be the famous Box Hill , and farm , common and park , and they be all amalgamate together — glue together — and retain by the green - belt land . it be a lovely place to live . the resident live there because it have two small town and many village spread among the green . the local planning council be Mole Valley District Council . it be liberal — no , wait a minute : it be control by the Liberals ; there be nothing liberal about it at all . the last ratify local plan for Mole Valley be date 2009 . I understand that more than 90 % of english local authority have adopt and be up to date with their local plan . Liberal Mole Valley be among the errant 10 % of local authority , which leave it vulnerable , as it be find now , to developer . in May 2019 , the Liberals take control of Mole Valley District Council and with that the responsibility for produce the draft local plan . it be produce between May 2019 and February 2020 and pass for consultation by the council executive and the council without a vote . it contain 30 or more green - belt site — I be tell that ; I have not count they — and the inclusion of many , if not most of they be vehemently oppose by local resident . that be not just those next to the green - belt site , but those within what New Zealanders would call " cooee " . I recognise that the proportion of land protect from development in Mole Valley be considerable , and , relatively speak , the quality of brownfield site free for development be small in comparison , but it be not impossible to increase the number of dwelling on those brownfield site . I know from my own time in inner London that with imagination and the new rule and regulation on building , it be possible to increase density and height and adapt those site . it have be claim that the percentage of green - belt site that the liberal plan will remove from protect status be small . however , that be a bit like my saying to a cancer patient that the prospect of a long - term cure be 97 % — it sound great , unless they be in the 3 % . that be what be happen with green - belt site . the figure be small in percentage term , but if they affect someone who choose to live there in part because of those green - belt site , it be bad news . the plan go to inspection , but , as last May ' s local election arrive , the Liberals ask the inspector to stall her inquiry , and she do . the Liberals announce on their election leaflet that they would remove the green - belt site from the draft plan . they do not . last month , at a full council meeting , the council face a decision on three choice provide by its planning officer . the first be that the plan be withdraw for a complete rethink . the second be to continue with the inquiry but withdraw the green - belt site . the third be to continue with the plan inquiry with the 30 or more green - belt site include , which the Liberals say they have redrawn but have not . just before the council meet , the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , be aware that a restart be probably the bad option , write to the council to tell it that it have to keep the plan in the system ; it could not withdraw it . the liberal council , in a classic liberal , duplicitous way , choose to proceed with the inquiry with the green - belt site — which it say it have remove but have not — still in the plan . the need for a clear plan be obvious : it would protect site that be not appropriate for development , but also set out development site that be consider suitable . the current situation with the Mole Valley plan have come back to bite the Liberals . I will give one example , but there be other . a site near Dorking call Sondes farm be a green - belt site that be put in the draft local plan by the Liberals for its green - belt protection to be remove . in spite of that , the Liberal council do an about - turn and refuse a developer ' s application for housing on the ground that it be a green - belt site , ignore the fact that it be go to withdraw that protection . that refusal be in line with what a large number of local people want to happen . they wish to support Sondes farm as a green - belt site . perhaps they be unaware that the Liberals have in effect already give it away . not surprisingly , the developer , have face a refusal , take its application to appeal and win , with the inspector point out that the site be down in the plan to be take out of the green belt . other in the portfolio will be in the same situation ; one of they be not very far away from that position now . my ask of the Minister be that she re - emphasise the importance to she , to Ministers and to the Government — certainly to I and most of my resident — of the protection offer by the green belt , that the removal of that protection from a site can happen only in exceptional circumstance , and that those circumstance do not include housing . this be a long - stand situation . it apply when I be a planning Minister , and I think it still apply now . it be not specific to Mole Valley — it apply across the country — and I can not but emphasise how important it be for so many in Mole Valley and many other area throughout the country that the strength of protection for the green belt be retain . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Mole Valley ( Sir Paul Beresford ) on secure this debate and on his eloquent speech . I would like to respond by comment on the late position of the emerge Mole Valley local plan , and by explain why the Department have intervene . on 25 January , the Secretary of State exercise his power under section 27 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 to direct the council not to take any step to withdraw the plan from examination . as my hon . friend have allude to , my ministerial role in the planning system dictate that I can not go into the specific of the local plan , which remain at the examination stage . however , I will try to deal with some of the general point and the reason why we have take action . my hon . friend will know that minister have consistently set out the importance of have an up - to - date plan in place . as he correctly say , the Mole Valley local plan be from 2009 — remarkably , it be over 14 year old . it should have be update many year ago . as he rightly say , that put the plan in the bottom 7 % of plan in the country by age . that be clearly not acceptable . the council submit its emerge local plan for examination in February 2022 , and the hearing session commence in June that year . it be the role of the independently appoint inspector to look at whether the plan be legally compliant before consider whether it be sound . for a plan to be find legally compliant , the local planning authority must demonstrate that all the procedural check and balance have be follow . effective co - operation early in the plan - make process be essential to ensure that the home and infrastructure need be plan for . authority be expect to collaborate with stakeholder to identify the relevant strategic matter to be address . for a plan to be consider sound , it should be positively prepare , justified , effective and consistent with national policy . ultimately , the inspector may report that the plan be unsound and can not be adopt by the local council — as my hon . friend will understand , that be not for I to decide . as I have say , Mole Valley have an old local plan , so have an effective and up - to - date plan in place be long overdue . such a plan be essential to identify the very late development need in any give area , decide where it should go and deal with planning application . the plan be also the main vehicle for set out the vision for Mole Valley and how to address housing need , along with economic , social and environmental priority . it be for the independent inspector to consider the council ' s plan strategy , but I know that Mole Valley ' s emerge strategy have be not to fully meet its own housing need . it be clear that Mole Valley have not be deliver home — its delivery be within the bottom 10 % nationally , as show in the late housing delivery test result . the council have indicate , as part of its examination documentation , that it have a shortfall of 1 , 164 dwelling over a five - year period , with only 2 . 9 year of supply . my hon . friend will also know that housing affordability be a significant issue in Mole Valley . the council be clearly way , way behind , first on have a plan , and secondly on delivery of housing . the inspector have agree to pause the examination between February and May 2023 to take account of the local election result . that pause be later extend to allow for publication of the update national planning policy framework . that be a perfectly reasonable position to take . however , the transitional arrangement in the update NPPF make it clear that the Mole Valley local plan will be examine use the pre - December 2023 NPPF — that is , the nppf under which the draft local plan be develop . my hon . friend will know that our Government ' s policy be clear : council and their community be well place to take decision on local planning matter , without unnecessary interference from central Government . however , when it become clear that a council be not act in the good interest of its community , it be only right that the Government consider whether it be appropriate to act . with that in mind , the Department become aware of an extraordinary council meeting arrange for 25 January , which include a motion to withdraw the local plan from examination . it be not unusual for a council under a new administration to want to change direction on its local plan , but that be normally before a plan be formally submit for examination . however , there be no change of administration at Mole Valley ; a Liberal Democrat administration vote to submit the plan to examination , and a Liberal Democrat administration subsequently want to consider a motion to withdraw the plan . that be after the plan have reach an advanced stage in the process ; the hearing have be complete and the main modification be to be finalise . this be highly unusual . the council have one of the old adopt local plan in the country . withdraw the plan at that stage would have mean start the whole plan preparation process again . the Secretary of State quite rightly conclude that such an action would not be in the good interest of the people of Mole Valley and decide to intervene . I be sure that my hon . friend would agree that further delay in a plan come forward would not serve his constituent ' interest . I completely agree with the Minister , and with the reason why the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety write to the council . the difficulty be that there be two choice leave : one be to withdraw from the green belt ; the other be to remain . the council ' s choice be to retain the green - belt site . the Minister say that the council will have to justify its decision . as I see it , the council will have to justify why it have 30 or so site — perhaps individually — in that plan in the green belt , in spite of the fact that the local population be vehemently against that . as my hon . friend will appreciate , I can not talk to the specific of the plan — that be not my responsibility . however , I will talk generally about the Government ' s philosophy on the green belt . just to be clear , the process be that the local plan go to examination by the Planning Inspectorate , and the Planning Inspectorate comment on the plan . it then go to consultation . it be definitely not in the interest of my hon . friend ' s constituent for there to be far delay in the plan come forward , as that may well mean that home be build on a speculative basis , with no co - ordination and with limited buy - in from local people . even the council have acknowledge that in the absence of an update plan , with no prospect of a new plan come forward for year , the district would be at risk of development on green - belt site get planning permission because of the district ' s poor housing delivery record . I be pleased to hear that follow the Secretary of State ' s most timely direction , Mole Valley District Council have indicate its willingness to progress , and to then conclude its work at the examination . its intention be to inform the inspector that the council wish to continue with the draft local plan , subject to the modification identify by the inspector . I want to step away from the detail of Mole Valley and the local plan , update the House , and clarify the Government ' s position on green belt . let I touch on what we be do to not only protect but enhance our green belt . I be proud to say that our national planning policy deliver on the promise we make in the 2019 manifesto . the Government remain committed to protect and enhance the green belt . national planning policy include strong protection to safeguard this important land for future generation , and this policy remain firmly in place . I should emphasise that national policy will continue to expect that green belt boundary be alter only where exceptional circumstance can be fully evidence and justify at examination of the revise plan . in order to demonstrate exceptional circumstance , a local authority have to show that it have examine all other reasonable option for meet its identify development need . green belt release be a last resort . in broad term , be it not unacceptable to assume that an exceptional circumstance be the need to increase housing ? it certainly be when I be in the Minister ' s shoe . be that still the case ? the Government ' s position be clear ; let I restate it . to demonstrate exceptional circumstance , the local authority have to show that it have examine all other reasonable option for meet its identify development need . as I say , green belt release be definitely the last resort . question put and agree to . House adjourn .