prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee before we begin , I would like to say a few word about today ' s proceeding . new clause and amendment be group in two group for debate to enable two clear and coherent debate on aspect of the Bill . I will shortly call the Member in charge to move her new clause 10 . debate on the first group will take place on the question that new clause 10 be read a second time . if that question be agree to , I be minded to select amendment ( a ) to new clause 10 in the name of Rebecca Paul for separate decision . we have more than 90 member who have indicate that they wish to speak in the first debate , but not all hon . member will be call . it be not customary to impose a speech time limit on a private Member ' s Bill , but I hope that member in charge of the Bill , and the speaker after they , will restrict themselves in the early part of the debate to no more than 15 minute in the first instance , include take intervention . the time limit will have to drop accordingly thereafter , and the Chair will review that guidance as the debate progress . we need to ask for short speech to enable more member to contribute . I should make it clear that the Chair retain the right to impose a formal speech time limit , but I would rather colleague help each other . this be a very important debate that divide in different way . today be an opportunity primarily for Back Benchers . I do not expect to call front Benchers to speak until at least 1 . 30 pm . New Clause 10 - no obligation to provide assistance etc " ( 1 ) no person be under any duty to participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act . ( 2 ) no register medical practitioner be under any duty to become — ( a ) the coordinate doctor in relation to any person , or ( b ) the independent doctor in relation to any person . ( 3 ) no register medical practitioner , other than the coordinate doctor or the independent doctor , be under any duty to perform any function under or in connection with this Act other than — ( a ) a function relate to the giving of notification , or ( b ) a function relate to the recording of matter in a person ' s medical record . ( 4 ) no health professional or social care professional be under any duty to respond when consult under section 11 ( 3 ) ( b ) ( requirement for assess doctor to consult professional with relevant qualification or experience ) . ( 5 ) no register pharmacist or register pharmacy technician be under any duty to participate in the supply of an approve substance to a register medical practitioner for use in accordance with section 23 . ( 6 ) no person be under any duty to — ( a ) act as a witness under this Act , or ( b ) act as a proxy under this Act . ( 7 ) nothing in this section affect — ( a ) any duty relate to the giving of notification under this Act or the recording of matter in a person ' s medical record , ( b ) any duty relate to a requirement to keep record or to provide information , or ( c ) any duty of a professional to respond to enquiry make under section 11 ( 2 ) ( b ) ( enquiry by assess doctor ) relate to health or social care the professional be provide , or have recently provide , to a person seek assistance under this Act . ( 8 ) schedule ( protection from detriment ) amend the Employment Rights Act 1996 to make provision to protect employee and other worker from be subject to any detriment for — ( a ) exercise ( or propose to exercise ) a right under this section not to participate in an activity or perform a function , or ( b ) participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act or perform any other function under this Act . ( 9 ) in this section — ( a ) a reference to a duty include any duty , whether arise from any contract , statute or otherwise ; ( b ) " register pharmacist " and " register pharmacy technician " have the same meaning as in the Pharmacy Order 2010 ( S . I . 2010 / 231 ) ( see article 3 of that order ) . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this new clause , intend to replace clause 28 , expand the protection currently provide by that clause by broaden the person to whom it apply and the function to which it relate ; and it introduce ns1 which make provision for enforcement of the right not be subject to detriment in connection with the Bill bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment ( a ) to new clause 10 , after subsection 8 ( b ) , insert — " ( 8a ) nothing in Schedule ( protection from Detriment ) prevent an employer who have choose not to participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act from prohibit their employee or worker from provide such assistance in the course of their employment or work with that employer . " this amendment ensure that employee who work for an employer who have choose not to provide assist dying can not do so whilst work for that employer . new clause 11 — replace the coordinating or independent doctor where unable or unwilling to continue to act — " ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) after a first declaration have be witness by the coordinating doctor , that doctor be unable or unwilling to continue to carry out the function of the coordinating doctor , or ( b ) after a referral be make under section 9 ( 3 ) ( c ) ( include a referral to which section 12 ( 4 ) apply ) , but before a report under section 10 have be make by virtue of that referral , the independent doctor be unable or unwilling to continue to carry out the function of the independent doctor , and in this section such a coordinating or independent doctor be refer to as " the outgoing doctor " . ( 2 ) the outgoing doctor must as soon as practicable give write notice of their inability or unwillingness to continue to carry out their function under this Act to — ( a ) the person seek assistance , ( b ) the Commissioner , and ( c ) if the outgoing doctor be the independent doctor , the coordinate doctor . ( 3 ) any duty or power of the outgoing doctor under this Act that arise in consequence of the declaration or referral mention in subsection ( 1 ) cease to have effect from the time the outgoing doctor complie with subsection ( 2 ) ; but this do not apply to any duty under subsection ( 8 ) or ( 9 ) . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision relate to the appointment , with the agreement of the person seek assistance , of a replacement coordinating doctor who meet the requirement of section 7 ( 5 ) and who be able and willing to carry out the function of the coordinating doctor . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 4 ) may , in particular , make provision to ensure continuity of care for the person seek assistance despite the change in the coordinating doctor . ( 6 ) where the independent doctor give a notice under subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) a further referral may be make — ( i ) under section 9 ( 3 ) ( c ) ( if section 12 do not apply ) , or ( ii ) where section 12 apply , under subsection ( 2 ) of that section , and ( b ) the register medical practitioner to whom that referral be make become the independent doctor ( replace the outgoing doctor ) and section 10 to 12 ( and this section ) apply accordingly . ( 7 ) subsection ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) apply where the coordinating doctor — ( a ) give a notice under subsection ( 2 ) to the person seek assistance , or ( b ) receive a notice under that subsection give by the independent doctor in relation to the person seek assistance . ( 8 ) where the coordinating doctor be a practitioner with the person ' s GP practice , the coordinating doctor must , as soon as practicable , record the giving of the notice in the person ' s medical record . ( 9 ) in any other case — ( a ) the coordinating doctor must , as soon as practicable , notify a register medical practitioner with that practice of the giving of the notice , and ( b ) the practitioner notify under paragraph ( a ) must , as soon as practicable , record the giving of the notice in the person ' s medical record . " this new clause make provision about the replacement of the coordinating doctor or the independent doctor where the doctor be unable or unwilling to continue to carry out their function under the Bill . new clause 12 — report where assistance not provide because coordinate doctor not satisfied of all relevant matter — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person be not provide with assistance under section 23 because the coordinating doctor be not satisfied as to all of the matter mention in section 23 ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) the coordinating doctor must make a report which — ( a ) set out the matter as to which they be not satisfied , and ( b ) contain an explanation of why they be not satisfied of those matter . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about the content or form of the report . ( 4 ) the coordinating doctor must give a copy of the report to — ( a ) the person , ( b ) if the coordinating doctor be not a practitioner with the person ' s GP ' s practice , a register medical practitioner with that practice , and ( c ) the Commissioner . " this new clause ( intend to be insert after Clause 27 ) require the coordinating doctor to produce a report where assistance be not provide because they be not satisfied of all of the matter mention in clause 23 ( 5 ) . new clause 1 — no health professional shall raise assist die first — " no register medical practitioner or other health professional shall raise the subject of the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act with a person unless that person have first raise it . " new clause 2 — no health professional shall raise assist die with a person under 18 — no register medical practitioner or other health professional shall raise the subject of the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act with a person under the age of 18 . " new clause 7 — doctor independence — " ( 1 ) any same two register medical practitioner may not be involve in the assessment of any one person ( whether as co - ordinating doctor or independent doctor ) more than three time in any 12 - month period . ( 2 ) where section 13 apply the Commissioner may authorise one additional instance in any relevant 12 - month period . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , modify the time period specify in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) if , in the reasonable opinion of the Secretary of State , such modification be — ( a ) necessary to ensure the availability of assist dying , and ( b ) do not compromise the independence of the two assessment . " this new clause limit the number of time two doctor can both act in the assessment of any one person to three time a year . it allow for the Commissioner to increase that limit in the case of death or incapacity of a doctor . finally , the Secretary of State be give the power to modify that limit . Amendment 50 be consequential to this and ensure such regulation be make use the affirmative procedure . new clause 9 — Standard of proof — " ( 1 ) where a register medical practitioner be require to be satisfied of a matter ( other than under section 23 ( 5 ) ) , the applicable standard of proof be a balance of probability but if they be not satisfied beyond reasonable doubt they must indicate in their report or statement that they be not so satisfied . ( 2 ) where an Assisted Dying Review Panel be require to be satisfied of a matter , the applicable standard of proof be beyond reasonable doubt . ( 3 ) where a register medical practitioner be require to be satisfied of matter arise under section 23 ( 5 ) , the applicable standard of proof be beyond reasonable doubt . " this new clause would require the co - ordinating and independent doctor to flag if they be unsure whether one of the eligibility requirement be meet or not . it also require that a panel have to be sure that all the eligibility requirement be meet . finally , it require the doctor administer the lethal substance to be sure that the person have capacity , a clear settled and informed wish to end their life , and be act voluntarily without coercion and pressure . new clause 16 — wish to end one ' s own life — " ( 1 ) a person do not have a wish to seek assistance to end their own life in accordance with this Act under section 5 ( 5 ) if they be substantially motivate by — ( a ) not want to be a burden on other or on public service , ( b ) a mental disorder ( include depression ) , ( c ) a disability ( other than the terminal illness ) , ( d ) financial consideration , include lack of adequate housing , ( e ) lack of access , or delay access , to treatment or other service which a public authority be require ( or can reasonably be expect to ) provide , or ( f ) suicidal ideation . " this new clause ensure that a wish to end one ' s own life that be substantially motivate by the factor list in the amendment do not qualify for the provision of assistance under this Act . new clause 17 — no detriment for care home or hospice not provide assistance — " ( 1 ) no regulated care home or hospice shall be subject to any detriment by a public authority as a result of not — ( a ) provide assistance in accordance with this Act , or ( b ) permit such assistance to take place on their premise . ( 2 ) no funding give by a public authority to a regulated care home or hospice can be conditional on that care home or hospice — ( a ) provide assistance in accordance with this Act , or ( b ) permit such assistance to take place on their premise . " this new clause would mean that regulated care home and hospice can not be subject to any detriment for not provide or permit assistance in accordance with this Act , and that their funding can not be conditional on they provide or permit such assistance . new clause 18 — Care Homes and Hospices to decide their own involvement — " ( 1 ) nothing in this Act prevent any regulated care home or hospice from decide whether ( and if so to what extent ) it wish to provide assistance under this Act or to allow it on its premise . " this new clause ensure that care home and hospice be free to decide whether and to what extent they wish to provide assistance under this Act or allow it on their premise . amendment 80 to clause 2 , page 2 , line 4 , leave out " and " and insert — " ( aa ) as a result of that illness or disease the person be experience ( or will likely experience ) severe pain and discomfort that can not be reasonably relieve to the person ' s satisfaction through palliative care , and " . this amendment require that , in order to qualify , the terminal illness cause ( or be likely to cause ) severe pain and discomfort that can not reasonably be relieve through palliative care . amendment 18 , page 2 , line 6 , leave out from " expect " to end . this amendment would remove the six - month time limit for a person to be eligible for an assist death . amendment 4 , page 2 , line 6 , leave out " within 6 month " and insert — " ( i ) in the case of a neurodegenerative illness or disease , within 12 month ; or ( ii ) in the case of any other illness or disease , within 6 month . " Amendment 14 , page 2 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a person who would not otherwise meet the requirement of subsection ( 1 ) shall not be consider to meet those requirement solely as a result of voluntarily stop eating or drink . " this amendment mean that someone who be not terminally ill within the meaning of subsection ( 1 ) can not bring themselves within that definition by voluntarily stop eating or drink or both . amendment 38 , page 2 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a person who would not otherwise meet the requirement of subsection ( 1 ) shall not be consider to meet those requirement solely as a result of refuse standard medical treatment or take any action intend to bring about a state of terminal illness . " this amendment clarify that an individual who be not already terminally ill under the definition in subsection ( 1 ) can not qualify by refuse standard treatment or take step to induce a terminal condition . Amendment 55 , page 2 , line 8 , leave out " , disease or medical condition " and insert " or disease " . this amendment align the wording of subsection ( 2 ) with the wording use in subsection ( 1 ) ( which define what it mean to be " terminally ill " for the purpose of the Bill ) . Amendment 81 , page 2 , line 16 , leave out clause 3 . amendment 24 to clause 3 , page 2 , line 18 , at end insert " except that section 1 ( 2 ) of that Act shall not apply " . this amendment would disapply the presumption that a person have capacity unless the opposite be establish . amendment 17 , page 2 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) for the purpose of the assessment of a person ' s capacity under this Act the information relevant to the decision as specify under section 3 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 must include , but be not limit to — ( a ) the option for care and treatment of the terminal illness , include — ( i ) the extent of prognostic certainty of their illness or condition , and ( ii ) the likely effect on day - to - day functioning , symptom management , and pathway to and experience of death of — ( a ) relevant and available care and treatment include palliative care , hospice or other care , ( b ) withdrawal or absence of care and treatment , ( b ) the likely pathway to and experience of death , include relevant risk of complication , follow proceed to self - administer a substance to end their own life under the provision of this Act , ( c ) a decision to proceed under this Act do not prevent or make unavailable any care and treatment provision that would normally be provide , ( d ) the person ' s decision to proceed under this Act must be theirs alone and not bind or direct by the view or decision of other , ( e ) the person be able to change their mind at any stage of the process for request assistance to end their own life under the provision of this Act , regardless of previous decision , ( f ) a decision to proceed under this Act be a decision to self - administer a substance to end their own life , ( g ) the self - administration of such a substance be not a medical treatment for their terminal illness but a personal choice concern life and death , and ( h ) relevant legal consequence from proceed with a request for assistance to end their own life , include life insurance and categorisation of death certification . " Amendment 2 to clause 5 , page 3 , line 5 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . this amendment be consequential to NC1 . Amendment 101 , page 3 , line 7 , after " person " insert — " , unless the person have Down syndrome or a learn disability , in which case a register medical practitioner must not initiate , suggest , or raise the matter of assist die with that person " . this amendment would disallow medical practitioner from initiate a conversation about assist die with a person who have Down Syndrome or a learn disability . Amendment 102 , page 3 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) before conduct a preliminary discussion under subsection ( 2 ) the register medical practitioner must ensure that the person have no remediable suicide risk factor which pose a significant risk to their life . " this amendment would mean that a preliminary discussion could not be hold with someone who have remediable suicide risk factor which pose a significant risk to their life . amendment 26 , page 3 , line 20 , leave out " , hospice " . this amendment leave out reference to a hospice , since this be a setting for the provision of palliative care . amendment 56 to clause 7 , page 4 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the coordinating doctor must give a copy of the first declaration to the Commissioner as soon as reasonably practicable after it have be make . " this amendment require the coordinating doctor to give a copy of the first declaration to the Commissioner . Amendment 57 , page 5 , line 14 , leave out " include training about " and insert " provide that the practitioner must have have training about the following " . this clarify that the obligation under subsection ( 7 ) be to specify training about certain matter . amendment 58 , page 5 , line 18 , leave out — " specific and up - to - date training on " . this clarify that the training be to be about adjustment and safeguard for autistic people and person with a learn disability ( rather than training about training about such matter ) . amendment 59 , page 5 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( d ) domestic abuse . " this be a draft change ( move the duty for the regulation to require the coordinating doctor to have receive training on domestic abuse so that it be locate with other similar duty ) . see also amendment 74 , which define " domestic abuse " for the purpose of the Bill . amendment 87 to clause 9 , page 6 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the coordinating doctor must take all reasonable step , include by ask the person , the Commissioner , and the relevant Chief Medical Officer , to find out whether that person have previously make a first declaration . ( 1B ) if it appear that the person have previously make a first declaration , the coordinating doctor must obtain all relevant report relate to that first declaration and , if no report be available , must speak to the doctor who witness it unless that be not reasonably possible . " Amendment 45 , page 6 , line 3 , leave out from " person " to end of line 16 and insert — " ( 1 ) on completion of the first declaration , the coordinating doctor must convene a clinical panel to carry out the first assessment . ( 1A ) the " first assessment " be an assessment to determine a person ' s eligibility for assistance under this Act . ( 1b ) the clinical panel must consist of — ( a ) a register social worker , ( b ) a register psychiatrist , ( c ) a palliative care consultant , register on the GMC Specialist Register , ( d ) a doctor who be — ( i ) a consultant in a specialty of the patient ' s diagnosis , if the coordinating doctor be a gp , or ( ii ) a GP , if the co - ordinating doctor be a consultant , and ( e ) the coordinate doctor . ( 1C ) all register health and social worker professional on the clinical panel must have — ( a ) receive relevant training as determine by the Secretary of State , and ( b ) opt in to determine that they be eligible to be on that panel . ( 1D ) the Secretary of State may by regulation establish a system for register health and social worker professional to opt in under subsection ( 1b ) . ( 1e ) for the first assessment , the clinical panel must establish — ( a ) why the person want to end their life through an assisted death and the alternative they have consider , ( b ) the person ' s understanding of their disease or illness and how this can be palliate , ( c ) whether there have be any intrinsic or extrinsic coercion which have lead to the person seek an assist death , ( d ) what support be available to the person and their carer for the duration of the person ' s life , ( e ) that the person — ( i ) be terminally ill , ( ii ) have capacity to make the decision to end their own life , ( iii ) be age 18 or above at the time the first declaration be make , ( iv ) be in England and Wales , ( v ) be an ordinary resident in England and Wales and have be so resident for at least 12 month end with the date of the first declaration , ( vi ) be register as a patient with a general medical practice in England or Wales , ( vii ) have a clear , settle and informed wish to end their own life , ( viii ) make the first declaration voluntarily and have not be subject to coercion or pressure by any other person into make it , ( ix ) be secure in their decision , and ( x ) be not have their decision making impact by their mental health . ( 1f ) the clinical panel must provide the person with information on the support available for the duration of their life , include future care planning . ( 1 g ) the member of the clinical panel must meet with the patient . ( 1h ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 g ) , the person may meet the clinical panel member separately or as a group , depend on the person ' s wish . ( 1i ) when all assessment be complete all the member of the clinical panel must meet to discuss the patient ' s safety , eligibility and care plan , include referral to specialist service . ( 1j ) should the panel come to the view that the criterion set out in subsection ( 1E ) ( e ) be not meet , they must prepare a write statement and a member of the panel must meet the patient to discuss their finding . ( 1 k ) when present the report under subsection ( 1J ) , the member of the panel must discuss with the person — ( a ) the option available to the person , which can include the provision of more information , and ( b ) access to the clinical or other support they require . " Amendment 30 , page 6 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( ca ) have relevant and available palliative care option , " . this amendment would mean that someone be only eligible for assistance in end their own life under this act if they have relevant and available palliative care option . amendment 46 , page 6 , line 27 , leave out from " if " to " refer " in line 28 and insert — 0 " the clinical panel be satisfied of all the matter list in subsection ( 1E ) ( e ) , " . amendment 60 , page 7 , line 1 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) where — ( a ) a referral be make under subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) , ( b ) the independent doctor die or through illness be unable or unwilling to act as the independent doctor , and ( c ) no report under section 10 have be make by virtue of the referral , a further referral may be make under subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) . ( 7 ) where a referral be make to a register medical practitioner by virtue of subsection ( 6 ) , that practitioner become the independent doctor ( replace the register medical practitioner to whom a referral be originally make ) and section 10 to 12 and ( replace the coordinating or independent doctor where unable or unwilling to continue to act ) apply accordingly . " this amendment make provision , correspond to the provision in clause 12 about the death or illness of a doctor from whom a second opinion be seek , for a further referral to be make where , before report , the independent doctor die or through illness be unable or unwilling to act . Amendment 32 to clause 10 , page 8 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) be a practitioner approve as have special experience in the diagnosis or treatment of mental disorder for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) of section 12 ( general provision as to medical recommendation ) of the Mental Health Act 1983 , " this amendment would require the independent doctor to have special experience in the diagnosis of mental disorder . amendment 61 , page 8 , line 22 , leave out " include training about " and insert " provide that the practitioner must have have training about the following " . this clarify that the obligation under subsection ( 10 ) be to specify training about certain matter . amendment 62 , page 8 , line 25 , at end insert " ( c ) domestic abuse . " this be a draft change . amendment 51 to clause 11 , page 9 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( v ) whether , accord to any reasonable body of medical or scientific opinion , there be risk of complication ( include pain ) , and what those complication be , from the substance to be ingest ; " this amendment require doctor to inform person seek assist dying of any reasonable medical and scientific opinion accord to which the lethal drug have a risk of complication and what those complication be . amendment 33 , page 9 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( fa ) ask the person whether they have discuss the request with their next of kin and other person they be close to and , where they have not do so , discuss their reason for not do so . " this amendment would require the assess doctor to ask the person whether they have discuss their request for an assisted death with family and friend , and to discuss their reason if not , in order to decide whether to advise that they should do so under subsection ( g ) . amendment 22 , page 9 , line 28 , leave out from " must " to end of line 33 and insert — " consult such other health and social care professional with qualification in , or experience of , a matter relevant to the person be assess , include but not limit to clinical , psychological and social matter . " this amendment would require the assess doctor to consult other health profession and other person as the assess doctor see fit on clinical , psychological and social matter relevant to the person . amendment 63 , page 9 , line 44 , leave out " , disease or condition " and insert " or disease " . this amendment align the wording use here with the wording use in Clause 2 ( 1 ) ( which define what it mean to be " terminally ill " for the purpose of the Bill ) . amendment 64 to clause 12 , page 10 , line 40 , leave out " section 10 and 11 " and insert — " section 10 , 11 and ( replace the coordinating or independent doctor where unable or unwilling to continue to act ) " . this amendment be consequential on NC11 . amendment 65 , page 11 , line 3 , at end insert — " and section ( replace the coordinating or independent doctor where unable or unwilling to continue to act ) ( 6 ) ( a ) ( ii ) " . this amendment be consequential on NC11 . amendment 47 to clause 14 , page 11 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Commissioner must give notice of the referral to any person who be likely to have an interest in be notify by virtue of be person properly interested in the welfare of the person to whom the referral relate , and other person they be close to . ( 2b ) those person may either become party to the proceeding before the panel or may give evidence to the panel without become party , at the Panel ' s discretion . ( 2C ) the Commissioner must issue a practice direction relate to the matter in subsection ( 2A ) and ( 2B ) . " Amendment 48 , page 11 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Commissioner must give notice of the referral to the designate authority and make they a party to the proceeding . ( 2b ) the designated authority must send a representative or advocate to the panel who will be task to make all reasonable argument to the panel for why a certificate of eligibility should not be grant . ( 2C ) the designated authority shall be one of the following as choose by the Secretary of State in regulation — ( a ) the Official Solicitor , ( b ) the King ' s Proctor , ( c ) the Attorney General , or ( d ) any other body so designate by the Secretary of State . " Amendment 31 to clause 15 , page 12 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( da ) that the person have relevant and available palliative care option , " . this amendment , which be link to Amendment 30 would mean that someone be only eligible for assistance in end their own life under this act if they have relevant and available palliative care option . amendment 5 , page 12 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( j ) that there be no psychological , social or environmental factor influence the person to make the decision . " this amendment ensure that the panel must be satisfied that no psychological , social or environmental factor be influence the decision of a person to seek assist dying . amendment 6 , page 12 , line 33 , leave out " may " and insert " must " . this amendment would require the panel to question the coordinating doctor or the independent doctor . amendment 7 , page 12 , line 35 , leave out " may " and insert " must " . this amendment would require the panel to question the person seek an assisted death . amendment 10 , page 12 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( ba ) must ask the person whether they have discuss the request with their next of kin and other person they be close to and , where they have not do so , discuss their reason for not do so ; " this amendment would require the Voluntary Assisted Dying Panel to ask the person whether they have discuss their request for an assisted death with family and friend , and to discuss their reason if not , in order to determine whether to grant a certificate of eligibility . amendment 8 , page 12 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( ca ) must consider hear from and question — ( i ) person properly interested in the welfare of the person to whom the referral relate , and other person they be close to ; and ( ii ) any other person who have provide treatment or care for the person to whom the referral relate in relation to that person ' s terminal illness ; " . this amendment would require the panel to consider hear from those with an interest in the welfare of the person and those who have provide treatment to they . amendment 11 , page 13 , line 4 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) and insert — " ( 6 ) if the panel be of the opinion that there be exceptional circumstance which justify not hear from the person , then the duty under subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) and ( 4 ) ( ba ) do not apply . " this amendment be connect to Amendment 10 . amendment 23 , page 13 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( can ) where the person to whom the referral relate be under the age of 25 , their next of kin ; " . Amendment 49 to clause 16 , page 13 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) the person apply for assisted dying , any party to the proceeding , or the register medical practitioner who be treat they may apply to the Commissioner for the Panel ' s decision to be reconsider . ( 2 ) anyone with evidence , which be not before the Panel , show that a certificate of eligibility should not have be issue may apply to the Commissioner for the Panel ' s decision to be reconsider . ( 3 ) the Commission must consider , without a hearing , whether an application under subsection ( 1 ) or subsection ( 2 ) raise an arguable case that the Panel ' s decision be — ( a ) wrong , or ( b ) unjust because of a serious procedural or other irregularity in the proceeding . ( 4 ) upon receive an application under subsection ( 2 ) the Commissioner must — ( a ) if satisfy that there be an arguable case that either of the criterion in subsection ( 3 ) be meet , refer as soon as reasonably practicable the person ' s case to a different Assisted Dying Review Panel for a determination of whether either of the criterion in subsection ( 3 ) be meet , ( b ) in any other case , dismiss the application . ( 5 ) if the new Assisted Dying Review Panel conclude that the either criterion under subsection ( 3 ) be meet , they must consider the person ' s eligibility for a certificate of eligibility application afresh . ( 6 ) the new Assisted Dying Review panel may consider whether either of the subsection ( 3 ) criterion be meet and the fresh application under subsection ( 5 ) together . ( 7 ) an assist death must not take place for a person whose application for assist dying be subject to the process under subsection ( 1 ) to ( 6 ) until the conclusion of that process . " amendment 66 , to clause 23 , page 19 , line 21 , leave out " subsection ( 3 ) " and insert " subsection ( 2 ) " . this be a draft change . Amendment 67 , page 19 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) an approve substance may be provide to a person under subsection ( 2 ) by — ( a ) prepare a device which will enable that person to self - administer the substance , and ( b ) provide that person with the device . in the case of an approve substance so provide , the reference in subsection ( 3 ) to the approve substance be to be read as a reference to the device . " this amendment clarify how the clause work in case where an approve substance be provide by prepare a device and provide a person with the device . amendment 68 , page 19 , line 36 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment be consequential on amendment 67 . amendment 91 to clause 26 , page 21 , line 22 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) the person ' s full name , date of birth , sex , ethnicity , and last permanent address ; ( aa ) whether , immediately before death , the person have a disability within the meaning of section 6 of the Equality Act 2010 ( other than a disability consist of the illness or disease which cause the person to be terminally ill within the meaning of this Act ) ; " this amendment expand the duty as regard regulation about final statement so as to provide that certain additional information be include in final statement . amendment 52 , page 22 , line 28 , leave out clause 28 . this amendment be consequential on NC10 . amendment 16 to clause 28 , page 22 , line 35 , insert — " ( 3 ) there be no obligation on any care home or hospice regulate by the Care Quality Commission or the Care Inspectorate Wales to permit the provision of assistance under this Act on their premise . " this amendment prevent there be any obligation on a care home or hospice which be regulate in England or Wales to permit the provision of assistance under the Act on their premise . amendment 74 to clause 52 , page 35 , line 20 , at end insert — " " domestic abuse " have the meaning give by section 1 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 ( and accordingly include behaviour that be control or coercive or that constitute economic abuse ) ; " this amendment define " domestic abuse " for the purpose of the Bill . amendment 75 , page 35 , line 31 , at end insert — " " learn disability " have the meaning give by section 1 ( 4 ) of the Mental Health Act 1983 ; " . this amendment define " learn disability " for the purpose of the Bill . new schedule 1 — protection from detriment — " schedule 1 the Employment Rights Act 1996 be amend as follow . 2 after section 43 M insert — " 43n Provision of assistance under Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 ( 1 ) a worker have the right not to be subject to any detriment by any act , or any deliberate failure to act , by the worker ' s employer do on the ground that the worker have — ( a ) exercised ( or propose to exercise ) a right confer on the worker under section ( no obligation to provide assistance etc ) of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 ( no obligation to provide assistance etc ) , or ( b ) participate in the provision of assistance to a person to end their own life in accordance with that Act , or perform any other function under that Act , in accordance with that Act . ( 2 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not apply where — ( a ) the worker be an employee , and ( b ) the detriment in question amount to dismissal within the meaning of Part 10 . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , and of section 48 and 49 so far as relate to this section , " worker " and " employer " have the extend meaning give by section 43 k . " 3 ( 1 ) section 48 ( complaint to employment tribunal ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1wa ) a worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the worker have be subject to a detriment in contravention of section 43n ( 1 ) . " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " , ( 1wa ) " . 4 ( 1 ) section 49 ( remedy ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after " section 48 ( 1 ) " insert " , ( 1wa ) " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " subsection " insert " ( 5ya ) , " . ( 4 ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5ya ) where — ( a ) the complaint be make under section 48 ( 1wa ) , ( b ) the detriment to which the worker be subject be the termination of the worker ' s contract , and ( c ) that contract be not a contract of employment , any compensation must not exceed the compensation that would be payable under chapter 2 of Part 10 if the worker have be an employee and have be dismiss for a reason specify in section 98c . " 5 after section 98b insert — " 98C provision of assistance under Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 an employee who be dismiss be to be regard for the purpose of this part as unfairly dismiss if the reason ( or if more than one , the principal reason ) for the dismissal be that the employee — ( a ) exercised ( or propose to exercise ) a right confer on the employee under section ( no obligation to provide assistance etc ) of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 ( no obligation to provide assistance etc ) , or ( b ) participate in the provision of assistance to a person to end their own life in accordance with that Act , or perform any other function under that Act , in accordance with that Act . " 6 in section 105 ( redundancy ) , after subsection ( 2A ) insert — " ( 2b ) this subsection apply if the reason ( or , if more than one , the principal reason ) for which the employee be select for dismissal be one of those specify in section 98c . " 7 in section 108 ( qualifying period of employment ) , in subsection ( 3 ) , after paragraph ( aa ) insert — " ( ab ) section 98c apply , " . 8 in section 205 ( remedy for infringement of certain right ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1xa ) in relation to the right confer by section 43n ( 1 ) , the reference in subsection ( 1 ) to an employee have effect as a reference to a worker . " 9 in section 230 ( definition of employee , worker etc ) in subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) after " 43 k " insert " , 43n ( 3 ) " ; ( b ) after " Part IVA " insert " , section 43n " . " this new schedule amend the Employment Rights Act 1996 so as to provide remedy for person subject to detriment for exercise or propose a right confer by NC10 or for participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with , or perform any other function under , the Bill . amendment 78 to schedule 2 , page 42 , line 26 , at end insert — " , or ( b ) abstain from vote on such a decision . " this amendment ensure that a panel must not grant certificate of eligibility unless all member consider that such a certificate should be grant . amendment 79 , page 43 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after make a decision , a panel must give the follow a document contain its reason for the decision — ( a ) the person to whom the referral in question relate ; ( b ) the coordinate doctor in relation to the person ; ( c ) the Commissioner . " this amendment require a panel to give the person mention a document contain its reason for any decision make by the panel . it be a privilege to open the debate on this next important stage of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill . it seem a long time ago that we hold the second Reading debate in November on what many of we feel be a very proud day for Parliament , when we see an emotional and passionate but largely respectful debate on a hugely important subject that mean so much to so many people . I know that there be a range of view on the subject of choice at the end of life , and today be not about revisit the fundamental principle of assist dying . before I address the amendment in my name , as the sponsor of the Bill , I will make some brief introductory comment on why we be here . put simply , if we do not vote to change the law , we be essentially say that the status quo be acceptable . over recent month , I have hear hundred of story from people who have lose love one in deeply difficult and traumatic circumstance that show that that be clearly not the case . too many have see their terminally - ill love one take their own life out of desperation or make the traumatic , lonely and costly trip to Switzerland , and then face a police investigation while deal with their grief and loss . my hon . friend mention many real story influence this debate . I will mention one more : my constituent Mick Murray , who be in the Public Gallery today . Mick help two close friend , Bob and Ann , to make the painful journey to Dignitas . both simply want to die at home with dignity and surround by love one ; instead , they have to make that journey overseas at great cost and legal jeopardy . Mick say : " I help they out of compassion — and I think that be what ' s miss from our current law . " do my hon . friend agree — order . we will set the example by follow the rule of the House . we will have short intervention , not speech . there be a load of other member . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . that be a very powerful point , if slightly long . there be people who face these really traumatic and difficult decision every day , include Louise Shackleton , who I believe be also with we today . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I think this be a debate to discuss amendment , not a general debate . it be , but I think this be the open lead - in to the amendment . I will make that judgment call . thank you , Mr Speaker . if I may just finish that point — rise — order . may I just say to people that if we be go to have continuous intervention , and if they continue to make the same intervention , they should not be shock if they end up at the bottom of the list ? I want to help people , because all this do be soak up time . Jim Shannon will be a good example . Mr Speaker , I will always be at the end of the list , so it be important for I to make an intervention . the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) set the scene very well on Second Reading , but since then thing have change . for instance , the Royal College of Psychiatrists have voice strong concern in opposition to the Bill about judicial oversight , robust protection against coercion and so on , as well as the effect it will have on vulnerable group such as those with dementia , down syndrome or mental illness . do the hon . Lady not respect the viewpoint of my constituent who tell I that they be oppose to the Bill in principle and all the thing that be come forward ? the new clause do not address the issue that the hon . Lady be refer to . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention and he be absolutely right that there be a range of view on this issue , and I be deeply respectful of that . I take all those point into consideration as we embark on this debate again today . perhaps most importantly , Mr Speaker , I have speak to terminally ill people themselves over recent month . it be impossible to know what it must feel like to receive a terminal diagnosis and I have nothing but admiration for people who have bravely speak about their personal situation , some publicly — include , of course , Dame Esther Rantzen — and other who have do so privately , many by email their MP . I know mine be not the only inbox full of such email . will my hon . friend distance herself from the correspondence from Dame Esther Rantzen , who accuse those of we who have concern about the Bill of have undeclared religious belief ? many colleague find that distasteful and disrespectful . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I have not see those comment , but it be absolutely right that whatever our view be on this issue , we must remain respectful . I also want to thank colleague here in Parliament — MPs and indeed staff — who have share their personal story of loss with I over recent month . this be a really important point : these be real people with real story , and they must always be at the heart of the debate . public support for assist dying in this country have be consistently high for a long time now , and we have see movement in jurisdiction around the world , include just this week in Scotland . I congratulate colleague in Holyrood , particularly Liam McArthur MSP , for hold such a compassionate and respectful debate , which I hope we can emulate today . it be right that we consider this change with great care , as we be do today . but we should also remember , as with other big social change such as give woman bodily autonomy on their reproductive right or allow gay — Order . we do say , when we have the conversation , that there should just be an introduction to the debate very early on . I think this be why member be begin to get frustrate ; we should now be speak to the amendment . thank you , Mr Speaker . I will move on to the amendment . if I may , I want to acknowledge the work of the Bill Committee in relation to the amendment , because a huge amount of work be do by member from all party , with a range of view — Order . I be really bother , because today be a day for amendment , and we really need to understand the view they cover . as the Member in charge of the Bill , you will , I be sure , really want to get into the depth of the amendment and not continue in that way . I do indeed , Mr Speaker ; you be absolutely right . the amendment that we be discuss today build on some of the work of the Committee , and I think that be important . we take a lot of step to strengthen the Bill in Committee , and I be pleased to work collaboratively with colleague in that way . as I come on to the amendment , which have be table in my name , let I say that the Government be , of course , neutral on the issue of assist dying , but have always be clear that workability be essential if the Bill be to pass . I have work closely with an outstanding team of civil servant from the Department of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of Justice , and it be with their technical advice on make the Bill workable and give coherence to the statute book that I propose these amendment today . will the hon . Lady confirm that those civil servant be 100 % comfortable with the impact of the Bill and that people with disability , mental health issue , neurodiversity and other medical condition will not be coerce or under pressure because of this Bill ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention . the civil servant be clearly neutral on the issue . they certainly have not express any opinion on the content of the Bill . they have merely provide the technical advice and expertise , and they have do so brilliantly in that regard . new clause 10 , amendment 52 and new schedule 1 be table in my name . as well as correct the injustice in the legal situation , one key tenet of this Bill be choice for die people , but it be also important that there be choice for doctor and other healthcare professional and , indeed , anyone else . the Bill be always clear that : " no register medical practitioner or other health professional be under any duty … to participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act " , but new clause 10 expand that protection . it broaden the people to whom it apply and the function to which it relate . new schedule 1 make provision for enforcement of this right " not to be subject to any detriment " in connection with the Bill . do my hon . friend accept that there may be a weakness in new schedule 1 , in as far as it protect a person from action take by their employer ? for example , it would not necessarily protect an agency worker who be contract to perform a service , but the original medical body decide not to re - engage that person ' s service . I refer my hon . friend to my previous comment that the Bill and these clause and schedule have be draft with the high level of legal expertise . it be not something I anticipate be a problem . the Bill do allow applicant to shop around for doctor , and it strike I that there be a danger that some doctor , who might have an ideological view of the Bill , will specialise in the provision of that service , which would give it rather great scope than the hon . Lady intend . I reject the assertion that patient will shop around . bear in mind that we be talk about die people , they be not in a position to start shop around for service , but I also agree that the Bill be strict in that regard . there be very strict protocol that doctor will have to follow . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will just make some progress , if I may . it be about not just patient choice but choice for professional people , too . we know there be a range of view on assist die across a range of profession . I have always be clear that no one who be uncomfortable take part should have to , and nor should there be any detriment to anyone , whatever choice they make in whatever role they have . it be welcome that new clause 10 seek to protect more individual , but can my hon . friend say why she have still not choose to make provision for hospice and care home to opt out without have their funding threaten ? there be absolutely nothing in the Bill that have any suggestion that any funding would be impact by whatever decision organisation make around assist dying . I will make some progress . new clause 10 ( 1 ) state clearly : " no person be under any duty to participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act . " that be something I feel strongly on a personal level . if people do not want to be involve , they should not have to be involve , and those who do , should . subsection ( 5 ) cover pharmacist and pharmacy technician and new schedule 1 provide comprehensive employment protection , so I hope that whatever colleague ' view be on assist dying , they will see the value of these change and support they . I thank my hon . friend for these amendment , because a number of people have write to I concerned about the very issue that she be raise . do she agree that many people will just be oppose to assist dying in all its form , and I entirely respect that , but if that be really their objection , they should be honest about that and not pretend that it be only particular amendment they need ? they should make the argument that they actually want to make . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and I agree that we must be respectful , but we must also be honest with each other . amendment ( a ) to new clause 10 be table by the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , who I thank for her work on the Bill Committee . I understand the thinking behind the amendment , but I worry about unintended consequence for patient care and protection . I have be advise that that be the case , and I think the Minister will speak to that . I think there be consensus across the House that , in the interest of patient safety , it be vital that there be clear and open communication , and sharing of information , between healthcare professional in the assisted dying process . if an employer can stop their whole workforce participate in any sort of assist die service , it could prevent the sharing of information or the recording of information in a patient ' s record . that could relate to safeguard , and it could put patient at risk as a result of the employer ' s decision . terminally ill patient may be receive different treatment at different place and from different healthcare professional , and it would potentially be harmful if they be not able to transfer information or record . there be also workability issue with amendment ( a ) to new clause 10 . it be not clear how it would work with regard to the requirement in subsection ( 7 ) for professional to provide information to an assess doctor about a patient — someone whom they may have previously treat — or in relation to information about a specific condition that they may specialise in . that information would need to be provide in the interest of patient care . an employee will always be bind by their contract of employment , but flexibility be need , as many health and care professional work for multiple employer . it be not uncommon for clinical staff to have more than one employer — for example , a doctor may be employ by the NHS but also work for a hospice — so it be not a straightforward scenario . just as it would be wrong for anyone to be compel to be involve in the process , it would be wrong for anyone to be prevent from do so , particularly if there be an impact on patient safety . before Second Reading , I hold a public meeting where I hear a range of view from my constituent . one thing that keep come up be the need to protect medical professional from be compel to take part in assist dying . I be really pleased to see that be address in new clause 10 , but do my hon . friend agree that have the choice to take part must go both way for medical professional ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we keep come back to the word " choice " . it be about choice for patient and terminally ill people , but it be also about choice for medical professional and other . because of the unintended consequence , I can not support amendment ( a ) , but I be confident that new clause 10 and new schedule 1 provide robust protection for employee , regardless of their choice about participate in the provision of assist die service . would my hon . friend mind elaborate on the detail of the transferring of medical record ? it be my understanding that someone can request their own medical record as a patient . the patient could request information , but so could doctor and other healthcare professional . it would be wrong if people be not allow to share that information if it be request , even if their employer do not want they to do it . I turn now to new clause 11 and consequential amendment 64 and 65 , which will ensure that the Bill be workable by make provision about the replacement of the co - ordinating doctor or the independent doctor where they be unable or unwilling to continue to carry out their function in the Bill . the doctor may be ill or on holiday , retire , or have a change of personal circumstance . what concern I about new clause 11 be that , essentially , people can shop around if one doctor be unwilling . the hon . Lady have give a list of reason why a doctor might be unwilling , but surely one of the reason could be that there be a fundamental change in a person ' s circumstance and they do not want to do it . nothing about that be record . be it not a real weakness of new clause 11 that we do not have the passing on of evidence from one doctor to another ? this be not about eligibility ; it be about the doctor ' s change of circumstance , rather than the patient ' s . if the doctor decide that the person be not eligible , they will reject the application . they would record that in the patient ' s record , so it would be transparent . will my hon . friend give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . this be essentially about provide flexibility for doctor while ensure continuity of care for patient , and I hope colleague can support new clause 11 . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make a little more progress , if I may , because a lot of people want to speak . new clause 12 ensure that there be thorough reporting of instance where the co - ordinating doctor conclude that the patient do not meet the strict eligibility criterion set out in the Bill . it be very important that this data be record , but at present there be no requirement for the co - ordinating doctor to produce a report when they be not satisfied about all matter set out in clause 23 ( 5 ) and will not provide the person with the approve substance . that lack of a reporting obligation do not align with the rest of the Bill — hence new clause 12 , which I be sure colleague will feel it be important to support . I thank my hon . friend very much for give way . although it be important that a doctor ' s reason for refuse to provide assistance be note down , there be nothing in the Bill to ensure that , if the person make another request in the future , the next co - ordinating doctor will be make aware of the first doctor ' s report . will she say something to reassure those of we with concern that people suffer mental ill health , include depression , may seek assistance repeatedly until they find a doctor who will assess they as eligible ? that would not be an issue , because copy of the report would be give to the patent , the co - ordinating doctor if they be not in the patient ' s GP ' s practice , and the commissioner , so that information would be record , and it be very important that it be . the report must set out the reason — will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . I be try to be very open to intervention , but I do need to crack on . the report must set out why the co - ordinating doctor be not satisfied and must contain an explanation of why the patient can not proceed with the assisted dying process . the co - ordinating doctor must give a copy of the report to the person , to the person ' s GP practice if they be not a practitioner within that practice , and to the voluntary assist die commissioner . that reflect the thorough and robust reporting and monitor mechanism throughout the Bill . I turn to the other amendment in my name . I will try to keep my comment succinct , as many colleague wish to speak . amendment 56 ensure that the co - ordinating doctor give the commissioner a copy of the patient ' s first declaration . that enable the commissioner to carry out their monitoring responsibility under clause 45 . amendment 57 and 61 — will the hon . Lady give way ? I will . Persistence pay off . when consider the Bill , I have presume that the doctor concern would be a senior clinician — a senior doctor — but page 63 of the impact assessment refer to pre - registration doctor , who have just complete medical school and be on a provisional registration . will the hon . Lady confirm that it be her intention that the provision in the Bill may be carry out by the most junior doctor , as well as by more senior consultant and general practitioner ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . give her background , she know what she be talk about . regulation will set out the level of expertise require by the doctor , but there will also be train for every single doctor take part in the assisted dying process . that be do well around the world , so there be work we can build on in that regard . amendment 57 and 61 be essentially tidy - up amendment that modify the wording of the Secretary of State ' s duty to set out training requirement in clause 7 and 10 . that fit with the intervention from the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . training be of paramount importance within the assist dying process , and there will be a period of year in which anyone who opt in to be part of this process will have thorough and robust training . due to amendment make in Committee , with very good intention , the current wording suggest that the regulation themselves must include detail about training . that obviously do not make sense and would be unworkable , as it would have to be do separately . similarly , amendment 58 remove unclear drafting as a result of change make in Committee that could have the effect that the regulation have to contain training about training , which obviously do not make sense . amendment 59 , 52 , 74 and 62 be also tidy - up amendment that be necessary as a result of the introduction of compulsory training for all doctor and panel member in domestic abuse and coercive control , follow amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , which the Bill Committee vote unanimously to accept . amendment 74 ensure that the term " domestic abuse " in the Bill have the same meaning as in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . it clarify the definition of " domestic abuse " and ensure that the term be consistent with exist legislation . it provide for a very broad definition to capture the full range of behaviour , include physical or sexual abuse , violent or threaten behaviour , control or coercive behaviour , economic abuse , and psychological , emotional or other abuse . it do not matter whether the behaviour consist of a single incident or a course of conduct . these really important amendment address concern about coercion and provide additional layer of safeguarding within the Bill . as such , I hope colleague support they . amendment 60 make provision , correspond to the provision in clause 12 about the death or illness of a doctor from whom a second opinion be seek , for a further referral to be make where , before report , the independent doctor die through illness , or be unwilling or unable to act . the amendment once again ensure continuity of care and be an important detail to add to the Bill . amendment 67 and 68 clarify the provision of clause 23 in case where an approve substance require administration via a medical device . the current drafting of the clause be not clear about whether it be allowable to administer the approve substance via a device , which it be . the amendment provide clarity for clinician . Amendment 91 expand the duty on what must be include in the final statement of patient access assist die service . it include additional information to be collect , include whether the person have a disability other than a disability consist of the illness or disease which cause they to be terminally ill . data collection and analysis be an important part of the robust monitoring and reporting build into the Bill . amendment 78 and 79 relate to the decision of the multidisciplinary voluntary assist die panel , as set out in schedule 2 — an important change make in Committee . each panel comprise a legal expert , a social worker and a psychiatrist . the Royal College of Psychiatrists state that it do not feel that , at this moment in time , there be sufficient psychiatrist able to take up a position on such a panel . what response do my hon . friend have to that ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . the Royal College of Psychiatrists have a neutral position on the issue of assist dying . if we refer to the impact — [ interruption . ] yes , it do . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will just finish this point . if we refer to the impact assessment , the number of people who will access assist dying in the first few year will be very small . I think there be around 4 , 500 psychiatrist in the country , but there be also a period of time of a number of year to do the training require for psychiatrist take part in the process , so I would not anticipate any problem there . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will keep go , if I may , because I think I have be fairly fair . amendment 78 ensure that all three member of the panel must agree before a certificate of eligibility be issue , so abstention can not result in approval . the amendment come about as a result of discussion in Committee . it be really important to clarify that when the panel of expert be do its work , its decision must be unanimous for a certificate of eligibility to be grant and for the patient to proceed . if a panel member abstain , no certificate of eligibility can be grant to the person . schedule 2 also set out that the panel must give reason for its decision in each case . this be really important . amendment 79 ensure that those reason — the reason for the panel ' s decision — be communicate in write in a document to the person to whom the referral in question relate , the co - ordinating doctor and the commissioner . this create clear channel of communication and will enable those people to fully understand the expert panel ' s decision . will the hon . Lady give way on that point ? I be go to finish , if I may , because other people want to speak . amendment 14 , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) — another outstanding member of the Committee — state : " a person who would not otherwise meet the requirement of subsection ( 1 ) shall not be consider to meet those requirement solely as a result of voluntarily stop eating or drink . " I suspect the amendment have be put forward as a result of the lengthy discussion in Committee regard whether people with anorexia would be eligible for an assist death under the Bill . in my previous career before become an MP , I work with a number of people with eat disorder . I be very aware of the hugely sensitive and complex issue surround disorder eating , particularly anorexia . I also know that this be a personal issue for a number of colleague across the House , as a result of their own experience . eat disorder cause huge distress for individual , their family and love one , but with care and the right treatment , it be possible for people to recover and to go back to lead a full and fulfil life . the hon . Lady be absolutely right on the matter of eat disorder , but my understanding of the amendment be that it relate to those who effectively starve themselves into a position of become terminally ill without have an eat disorder — that be the thrust of the amendment . do she see that , and how do she intend to respond to it ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . the amendment be not specifically about eat disorder ; there be a broad context . I will come to that later . it be with that experience in mind — my own personal experience and have speak to many colleague on this issue — that I say now , as I say in Committee , that under the Bill as it stand , have anorexia would not qualify a person to be eligible for an assist death . the Bill be clear that a person can not be consider terminally ill on the basis only of a mental disorder . clause 2 make it clear that a person must have an inevitably progressive illness or disease that can not be reverse by treatment . Anorexia be a serious mental health condition that be not inevitably progressive and can , thankfully , be reverse by treatment . of course , at every stage of the assist dying process the patient must be find to have capacity to make the decision , and this be check repeatedly throughout the process . someone with severe anorexia would be highly unlikely to be assess to have capacity to make a decision on assisted dying . the other tragic reality be that if a patient be so ill as a result of not eat and drink for whatever reason , they would die before the process of assist dying be able to take place , as it could take up to two month to complete all the stage of the process as set out in the Bill , and the late clinical guidance state that the general range of survival once voluntary stopping of eat and drinking have begin be between seven and 21 day . stop eat and drinking also lead to a range of symptom that would make meaningful conversation , as require by the Bill , impossible . have say that , I know that some people have express concern that the severe physical consequence of a decision to stop eat or drink could still enable someone to claim eligibility for assist dying when they would not otherwise be able to do so , and I believe that be the motivation behind amendment 14 . rise — I will take one final intervention . the hon . Lady be very kind . at the moment , she be outline the case for those who have problem with their eating and their diet almost to the point where they be unable to make their own decision , and she be outline what be go to happen here . what would she say about the situation in Belgium and in Canada , where assist dying have be legalise for people with eat disorder ? this may progress from what she have say and go way beyond that , as have be prove in other country across the world . I thank the hon . gentleman for that point . the eligibility criterion in this Bill be very different from those in the jurisdiction he mention — people with mental health condition be not eligible for assist die under the provision of this Bill . will my hon . friend give way ? I will just finish this point , because it be very important . I acknowledge the concern that colleague have express around this issue , and I believe they be the motivation behind amendment 14 . as I have set out , I think that risk be negligible . I have take advice , and there be some concern that clinician might have difficulty assess with certainty that the decision to stop eat and eat be the only reason for a person ' s terminal prognosis ; as such , some further drafting change may be require in the other place if this amendment should pass . with that in mind , however , and to ensure there be no sort of loophole , no matter how small the reality be of there be one , I be happy to support this amendment today . rise — I be go to leave it there for now , if I may . I be conscious that many colleague wish to speak in this important debate , and I be keen to hear their contribution , so I will conclude my remark there . I thank colleague for listening , and I hope they be able to support the amendment in my name today in the interest of strengthen the workability of the Bill and provide great flexibility and safeguard for patient and professional . it be a privilege to speak in this place on such an important Bill . have be part of the Committee that scrutinise it line by line , and , on some occasion , word by word , for several month early this year , it be a pleasure to see so many of my colleague from Committee Room 10 present today — a reunion of sort . I be here , as always , with the intention of improve the Bill , so that if it do indeed pass , vulnerable people be as protect as they can possibly be from unintended consequence . it be important to remember that on Report and third read we be not vote on whether we agree with the principle of assist someone to end their own life . our role be to vote on the law in front of we — on whether the word on the page be clear and do what be intend , on whether the statutory process be safe , and ultimately on whether the provision of assist die benefit our community . I be not against assist die in principle , but I be against this Bill . I be happy to put it on the record now that I have no personal religious belief ; I be against the Bill for the simple reason that it will harm far more people than it will help . the people who will be harm be the most vulnerable in our community , and I be not willing to accept that collateral damage . today be important , because we have the opportunity to improve the safeguard in the Bill so that some of those group be well protect . I urge member to take that opportunity to the full . it require very little skill to draft law that work for 90 % of case , but there be much skill in ensure that the other 10 % be cater for as well . I urge everyone to set the high standard today and think about how we can ensure that those unordinary and unexpected case be adequately protect , too . it really be life and death , so please do not accept anything that be not good enough . do the hon . Member agree that one of the great risk in this Bill be around coercion ? it be not just about coercion from family member or friend , but about societal coercion and circumstance . the current state of palliative care in our country be among the bad in the developed world . without adequate palliative care , patient might feel pressure to go down the assist die route instead . I wholeheartedly agree . there be much to discuss today and there be little time , so I will start at the beginning of the Bill , at the point at which the criterion for eligibility for an assisted death be set . it be there that important safeguard be need to ensure that those who should never be eligible be exclude . we should not make the mistake of assume that a doctor will always make the right decision or that they be infallible . it be incumbent on we to put in place law that make it hard for they to get it wrong — that make it hard for someone vulnerable to fall between the crack . the hon . Lady have just agree with a point make by the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) . exactly the same point be make when this House vote against the Assisted Dying ( no . 2 ) Bill back in 2015 . would she say that in the nine year after the House vote against the Bill , we see a golden age in palliative care as a result , or do she think that if we wait for palliative care to be perfect we might never vote in favour of assist dying ? the evidence be clear that palliative care do not get well when assist dying be introduce ; we hear that in the Bill Committee . we should absolutely look to address palliative care , because that will benefit more people . I will come to that point later in my speech , so I will not discuss it any far now . I do not want to get ahead of myself . there be many helpful amendment in this vein — namely , new clause 16 , new clause 9 and amendment 80 , 14 , 38 , 81 , 24 , 30 and 31 . in simple term , they seek to tighten and refine the eligibility criterion for an assist death by set out when and for what reason an assist death should be allow , and by ensure that those who be vulnerable be protect from something that may not be in their good interest . interestingly , on Second read the argument put forward for assist death be that those who be die should be spare unbearable pain . this be an argument that everyone understand and have full sympathy with . no one in this place want people to endure pain as they come to the end of their life ; I certainly would not want that for my love one or indeed for myself when my time come . but then the argument be put forward change . there be less emphasis on pain , and more on choice and autonomy . the word " autonomy " come up again and again in Committee — and autonomy be important , of course , but up to a point . from a proposal to provide a humane end to someone ' s pain when it can not be relieve in the last month of their life , we have move to a proposal to provide an assist death service to those who choose it for any reason , even if the pain can be alleviate by palliative care . this approach , however , come with a cost to other : family , clinician and broad society . this really be momentous . there be no go back from such a massive shift . a move to autonomy trump everything else change everything . that be why new clause 16 , table by my hon . friend , be so important . in other jurisdiction that have pass such law , up to a third of people report that they have take this step because they feel they be a burden on other . that be the truth of it — it be not always about pain — and that be the kind of autonomy that lead to disaster . I thank my right hon . friend for make that point ; he be absolutely right . I have table amendment 80 , which would bring the Bill back to its original intention . it would require that in order to be eligible for an assist death , the pain and discomfort experience or expect from a person ' s terminal illness could not be reasonably relieved to their satisfaction through palliative care . it seek to limit assist death to the very small group of people who may benefit from it , not the large group who just need adequate palliative care to give they the comfortable , dignified death they deserve . the hon . member ' s amendment speak of " severe pain and discomfort " , but there be a reason why the medical profession have not go for that . how do she propose we assess severe pain and discomfort as oppose to medium pain ? be a fungate wound part of severe pain and discomfort ? the key point be that we need to improve palliative care . we be spend so much time and effort focus on this Bill rather than do the thing that would actually help more people . my amendment 80 , in combination with amendment 30 and 31 table by my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , would drive significant improvement to palliative and end - of - life care , get we close to consistent and universally available care for all . I support the hon . Lady ' s amendment . as the Royal College of Psychiatrists point out , pain from unresolved physical symptom and the fear of physical pain or death can make a person want to die , and depression , which be also associate with a wish to die , be often miss . do she agree that it be vital that people be support to be free from pain by have access to good palliative and end - of - life care , and that the Bill ' s provision should be available only to those whom that can not help ? I completely concur . I commend the hon . Lady for table her amendment . amendment that would have protect palliative care and hospice from facilitate assist suicide service on their premise for ethical or practical reason have be reject , so the Bill leave hospice with little choice but to comply . it also put they in a difficult position when it come to funding . hospice will also have to provide a staff member to do this work . the problem that will create for palliative care and hospice can not be ignore . the Bill go against that right in its totality . I agree , and I will come to that point in more detail in the second half of my speech . with regard to these amendment , we be so blessed to have our precious nhs . at vital stage , the NHS quite rightly deliver care in obstetric , gynaecology , neonatology and paediatric , but at the end of life about 70 % of care be deliver outside the NHS , largely by charity , and that figure be even high for child ' s palliative and hospice care — so the state pay for how we enter this life , but not for how we depart it . there be something deeply wrong about that for our society . do my hon . friend agree that surely we must address that , and the delivery of universal palliative and hospice care , before we go anywhere near the measure in this assist die Bill ? my hon . friend make a good point , and I agree . in the interest of time , I will make some progress . the current situation , whereby fully fund palliative and end - of - life care be not available in certain postcode , mean that those unfortunate patient do not have a real choice . we know that 25 % of people who die in this country do not get the palliative care they need — that be more than 100 , 000 people a year — and if the Bill go through , they will be offer a fully fund assist death as the only reliable way to end their pain . that be no choice . I urge member who want to see improvement in palliative and end - of - life care to vote for my amendment 80 , and for amendment 30 and 31 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge , if they be push to a vote . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not because I do not have much time . I will move on to the lack of a good interest test in the Bill , which my new clause 16 seek to remedy . patient autonomy be of course important , but it must be balance against what be in someone ' s good interest . in certain situation , when it be in their good interest , treatment can be give against a patient ' s will — for example , force - feed a young girl with anorexia . it be not an easy balance to get right , but in the absence of any good interest test in the Bill , follow the process rigidly would lead to devastating result in some case . the Bill currently prioritise autonomy of the patient in a specific moment of time , rather than what might be in their good interest in the long run . it make no allowance for the fact that someone may feel a certain way temporarily due to other consideration . for example , when someone have just receive a terminal diagnosis , it can understandably cause a depressive state and suicidal feeling , but those feeling do not necessarily last , so it may be in the good interest of the patient to allow a little time to pass , to give they a little breathing space before consider the assist death route . new clause 16 essentially try to provide a good interest test by exclude certain reason , other than the alleviation of pain , that might be drive a patient ' s decision . for example , we have hear a great deal about the internal pressure from patient themselves that be drive by their concern not to be a burden , and we hear clearly in Committee that a patient could tell a doctor that they be want an assisted death only for financial reason , and that would still be approve . we know from the experience of overseas territory that patient will often opt for an assist death because of social and welfare issue , such as be homeless . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I do not have much time and I wish to get through my point . how can we be happy with a process that do not exclude such reason ? instead of provide the support that be actually need , the state be content to put they on a pathway that lead to their death . I hope that the House will recognise that , whether one support assist dying in principle or not , it be morally bankrupt not to have some kind of good interest test to protect those who be not seek death to alleviate pain from a terminal illness . another group that be particularly vulnerable be those with eat disorder . in Chelsea Roff ' s oral evidence , she set out that " at least 60 people around the world have be euthanise or assist in suicide " with " anorexia nervosa list by name as a terminal condition . " – – [ Official Report , Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Public Bill Committee , 29 January 2025 ; c . 139 , Q175 . ] to paraphrase she , these be young woman who be not terminally ill and have decade of life ahead of they . it be important to make the point that someone suffer — rise — rise — I would love to give way , but — order . the hon . Lady have say that she be not go to give way . we be aim for 15 minute for each speech , but it be go to be 20 minute if we do not pick up the pace . I apologise , but I do want to get through my speech . it be important to make the point that someone suffer with anorexia , or indeed any mental condition , be not intend to be eligible for an assist death . however , in the case of anorexia there be physical manifestation of the illness , such as malnutrition and diabete , that might mean the patient meet the definition of be terminally ill , and that be the nub of the problem : the Bill do not adequately rule out physical manifestation cause by mental illness . that be why amendment 14 , table by the hon . member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) , be so important , because it would ensure that anyone who voluntarily stop eat or drinking be ineligible for assist dying . I support the amendment strongly as it address a big risk . lastly , on eligibility specifically , I want to talk about capacity . there be such problem with the current approach to determine capacity that I barely know where to start . when it come to end one ' s own life , a high standard should be apply . the current definition of capacity be not create with such a monumental decision in mind , and if it be be draft from scratch today , it would look very different . that be one of the reason why the Royal College of Psychiatrists do not support the Bill . under the Bill , a person be assume to have capacity in the first instance . a clinician only need to be over 50 % sure that a person have capacity . if the person be make unwise decision , that be not take into account , and a person can be " help " to make a decision — for example , when a patient have learn disability . I ask all member today whether they be happy with that . do that sound like a robust approach to assess whether someone have capacity to make the decision to end their own life ? let we begin with the starting presumption of capacity . that , too , lack the standard for assist death decision . I therefore support amendment 24 , table by the hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) , which would disapply section 1 ( 2 ) of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 for the purpose of assist dying . one of the big issue for I be the fact that the current approach require an impairment or disturbance of the brain in order for someone to be consider not to have capacity , irrespective of whether they can make a decision . in the real world , that would mean a doctor could assess a patient who give the impression of be confused , illogical , erratic , inconsistent — everything about they could scream that they be not in a good place to make this decision at that point in time — but they would still be consider to have capacity if there be no identifiable impairment or disturbance of their mind or brain . that could potentially put those with depression , anxiety , learn disability or eat disorder , or even those just experience physical pain that be drive they to distraction , in danger of be consider to have capacity when they do not . so far I have focus on eligibility . I will now talk about hospice . order . please , I really want to get as many people in as possible . if you can come to a conclusion , that would be helpful . I will therefore speak to my new clause 17 and 18 , which would provide important protection for hospice , which be currently lack in the Bill . new clause 18 make it crystal clear that any regulated care home or hospice can decide whether to provide assist dying on its premise , and new clause 17 make it clear that they can not be subject to any detriment for not provide or permit assisted death , and that their public funding can not be conditional on their provide this service . whether one be in favour of assist dying or not , we must preserve the right of organisation , company and charity to choose whether to offer it . they must never be force into it by public funding be conditional on the provision of assist dying . I note that new clause 10 , table by the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , would expand the protection for individual not to participate in the assisted dying process if they so wish . it seek to protect employee from be subject to any detriment for participate or not participate in the provision of assist dying . this sensible protection would ensure that if an NHS hospital provide an assist death service , any member of staff who do not want to participate would not have to do so and would suffer no detriment as a result . however , there need to be a sensible mechanism balance that against the employer ' s right to set their own policy on assist dying , and that be what my amendment ( a ) to new clause 10 seek to do — we have already talk about that , so I will not go over it again . I do want to talk about process and family , but it look like I will not have time to do that . I will end there . I thank you for your patience and generosity , Mr Speaker . I be grateful that I have have the chance to speak in support of the amendment , and I look forward to hear from other member . I rise to speak to new clause 1 and 2 , which stand in my name , and consequential amendment 2 , and I will touch on other at the end . these amendment — without be dismissive of those who help I draft they — be imperfect . those of we who be not the promoter of the Bill have not have the support of government drafter in tidy up the Bill . we need to acknowledge that the Bill in front of we today be the Bill — more or less — that will or will not be pass by this House . for any amendment make , by the point of Third Reading , that be it — there will be no further opportunity to redraft they . sadly , one of these amendment be reject in Committee . if those change have be discuss before the original Bill be publish , or even in evidence before Committee , we would have be in a well place to get that tight drafting that be need in make good legislation . we be not a debating society ; we be now legislate for a law that would enable the state to assist in people take their life . I be sad that we be able to discuss these amendment only now . I do not get the opportunity to be on the Bill Committee , but I commend all member who spend so many hour discuss and debate those issue . the ramification of the clause I want to talk about be important for potential user of a service , for medical professional , for family and for other health professional . the Bill currently allow doctor to suggest assist die to a patient who have not raise it themselves . this , I believe — as I know many other do — present a serious risk that terminally ill patient , already highly vulnerable , will feel pressured to end their life . I realise that my hon . friend ' s new clause 1 come from a good place , but can she not see that it be inconsistent with our ethical obligation as doctor ? that be why the British Medical Association have suggest that although there should be no duty to raise the issue , neither should there be a ban on do so . I ask she to consider that the australian state of Victoria initially have such a measure — a so - call gag clause — as part of its Bill , but it be remove because it cause confusion and be detrimental to patient care . should we not learn from that ? I thank my hon . friend for his point , which bring I to something I really want to address . as I say in my opening remark , these be imperfect amendment . I will get into some of the conversation that I have have with a number of people about this . I be one person ; I have not be able to consult the BMA , as a Government or a sponsor could , for example , but I be aware of its concern . however , we be talk here about very definite and irreversible decision on life and death . I know that many doctor have have conversation about that , but not to the level require to legislate for it . this be a different set of circumstance , but I very much appreciate his point . do my hon . friend agree that far too many people do not have confidence in the face of authority , and that if a doctor raise assist suicide with they — no matter how tactfully or professionally — they will feel that they be be steer in that direction ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . give she many year as a constituency MP in the same borough as I , we both know many such vulnerable people . Dr Rachel Clarke , a hospital palliative care doctor , say : ' if , for instance , you say to a vulnerable patient who have just be tell they have a diagnosis of terminal cancer , " have you think about assist die ? " , I would suggest that state it broadly like that be a form of pressure and that you be potentially unintentionally coerce that patient . ' – – [ Official Report , Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Public Bill Committee , 28 January 2025 ; c . 75 , Q93 . ] so we be in a very difficult space , as my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) highlight , with his background as a practise gp . we recognise that . as I have say , this be an imperfect process to deal with that challenge , but it be a very different set of circumstance compare with the other advice that doctor give . rise — speak of doctor , I give way to the hon . Lady . I rise to support the hon . Lady ' s new clause 1 . as a doctor , I be very aware of the trust that the public place in doctor and the seriousness with which they take what we say . if a doctor give somebody information about assist dying , it be quite reasonable for that person to think that the doctor be suggest that they should take part in that process , or be hint that their death will be dreadful and try to be kind . if doctor be allow to say , " this be a good process , " more people will take it up than would otherwise have want to . I thank the hon . Lady . will the hon . Lady give way ? I need to get into the argument for my two new clause , so I will not take any more intervention for the time be . I believe that there be a serious risk that terminally ill patient , who be already vulnerable , could feel pressured into end their life soon than they would wish to . we know of example of patient who feel suicidal and low at the point of diagnosis , and at that point they be vulnerable — this be not the debate in which to make point about that — but often , with good care and pain relief , they can move away from that decision . there be also the issue about the burden on family . will the hon . Lady give way ? I must make progress . I also want to talk about how the teenage brain work . the Bill would apply to a young person at the age of 18 . a month or so after they reach that age , they could undertake an assisted death . let I highlight some of the good conversation that I have have with people who have generously give their time to speak with I about these important issue , which I be worried have not be address at any point in the Bill ' s passage , except for a short and important discussion in Committee . will my hon . friend give way ? let I finish my point about doctor ' advice before I move on to the issue of 18 - year - old . Dr Alexandra Mullock , who be a senior lecturer in medical law and co - director of the centre for social ethic and policy at the University of Manchester , say in write evidence to the Bill Committee : " the freedom for a register medical practitioner ( RMP ) to raise / discuss the option of seek help to die in clause 4 ( 2 ) be ethically problematic . " she also highlight : " professional advice regard treatment will be receive by the patient as a recommendation " , as the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) say . that be a really big concern . the UK coalition for deaf and disabled people be very concerned , and would like this provision remove as well . the hon . Lady make an excellent point . do she also acknowledge that , give what we be begin to know about coercive control , the suggestion by a doctor — innocently ; maybe neutrally — that this be an option could be latch on to by someone who be coercively control the person who may choose assist dying , and we would never find out that that have be the case until after the person ' s death , if at all ? the hon . Gentleman highlight an important point in relation to my amendment and other : in this House , we make coercive control illegal in legislation only in recent year . this be such a big issue , and what be different about the Bill — this be why some position be particularly challenging — be that we be talk about irreversible decision . I want to talk a bit about how the teenage brain work . child and young people be particularly susceptible to be influence , include into dangerous and risky behaviour . in a number of country , assist die law have be expand to allow child and young people to end their life . we need to be alert to that very real risk . I be impress by the work of the Children ' s Commissioner , who recently publish a report into child ' s view on assist dying . it be heart wrench to read . those with illness and disability be particularly concerned about what the Bill mean for they . these child have not really have a voice in the debate so far , and there be talk about whether the Bill may apply to child with life limit or severe progressive disease . I , too , be greatly concerned about our young people . I be at an event in my constituency of Lagan Valley the other night , at which it be say that almost all our young people across the UK be have their mental health impact by social medium . if we throw this into the mix , it have the potential to do untold damage . I do not support the Bill , but I applaud everybody who have take the time today , regardless of their view , to try to make it well . however , I have grave concern about its ramification . I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . if I have time , I will touch on social medium , but I want to put on the record my thank to some of the professional who give of their time to speak to I in preparation for my amendment . will my hon . friend give way ? not at the moment . I have some very interesting conversation with Sophie Scott , professor of cognitive neuroscience at University College London ; Sallie Baxendale , professor of clinical neuropsychology at UCL ; Sarah - Jayne Blakemore , professor of psychology and cognitive neuroscience at the University of Cambridge ; Dr Richard Hain , consultant and clinical lead , all - Wales manage clinical network in paediatric palliative medicine at Cardiff and Vale university health board ; and Dr Anna - Karenia Anderson , consultant in paediatric palliative medicine and medical director for Shooting Star child ' s hospice . I be only sad that there have not be a big debate , because the process have not allow for one . I apologise to they in advance that I will not be able to do justice in the time that I have to the very many careful and thoughtful point that they raise . will my hon . friend give way ? I have say no — I need to explain the issue , and give due credit to the people who have assist I in raise they . adolescent ' brain develop differently . from the age of puberty , there be a rapid change in how young people make decision . as adult , we have the experience to imagine what the future might look like , but young people , up to about the age of 25 , often can not plan or predict their future because that part of the brain have not develop well , and they be not good at understand regret . the comparison be different for adult . role model and social group matter a great deal . I appreciate the hon . Lady give way , give the time constraint . do she acknowledge the concern that many of we have about not tell patient all the option , particularly young people who be now so social - media literate ? their automatic reaction be to Google everything ; in fact , we all do it . the danger be that , if they be not tell all the option and give the guidance that be available , they will go to Google and see yet more of the dangerous suicide attempt that we see at the moment . I do not have time to completely unpick the hon . Lady ' s point , but to have something positively suggest be a big issue for young people , so the social medium aspect be important . the social network matter . at the point of puberty , teenager will look to their social group , which will massively influence their behaviour in a way that their family will not . adolescent be more likely to take risk : their neurodevelopmental underpinning be different , and pathway between the rational and the emotional part of the brain be not fully develop . in " a hot situation " , where there be a lot of emotion , they take more risk , particularly because they do not have the ability to think about the counterfactual . in this case , the counterfactual be not be here anymore ; that be a very difficult thing for a lot people to understand , particularly young people . the ability of young people to think flexibly and change their mind be in the front of the brain , which do not always react to the — on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I need to make some progress . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be try to speak at great pace . teenager be passionate about their belief and peer can change their mind in a way that their parent often can not . there be not always a logical decision - make path . a doctor would carry weight . in response to the point make by the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , a child may be think about die but somebody — that doctor or professional — could make their decision a legitimate option . there be many issue in palliative care . we talk about Gillick competency , but to be clear , young people under the age of 18 can make their own decision about healthcare . even young people under the age of 16 can have such conversation because of Gillick competency , which be a good principle , but the issue around mental capacity and Gillick competency be often not well put in place — on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I have say no to my hon . friend — I have move on from the point that she want to talk about . the law be ambiguous about Gillick competency . the Mental Capacity Act 2005 and Gillick competency triangulate through the person but also the condition , so it relate to the complexity of the condition as well as to the individual . peer pressure be a big part of what have an impact on people , as well as the view of the professional or doctor . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I need to make progress . on the issue of child make a decision at the age of 18 , they could have a conversation with someone about die and then on their 18th birthday sign on the dotted line ; the conversation would not even have to be at that point . we need to understand that even at the age of 18 or 19 , young people ' s brain be in a different place on this . if we pass the Bill , we be say that at the age of 18 , 19 or 20 , people could have an assisted death . we need to understand the ramification of that for those people . I want to ensure that I cover some of the other point that hon . member have make . I do not have time to go through all the amendment that play into this , but strengthen the panel and the safeguard , as well as the issue that hon . member have raise around coercion and capacity , be very important . there have not , however , be time to work through how those issue have an impact on young people . if only I have time to go into some of the evidence I have receive — I have only be able to give a hasty run - through because of the pressure on time today , which be a sign of the challenge of the process . we have not get time to go into the detail that we need to consider . socialisation be important . social medium have a very big impact and we need to understand that that will have an impact on young people make their decision . rise — I be try to do the math on my timing . I fear I have run out of time . I would like to speak for long , but I sense from the mood of the House , and from you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that hon . member do not wish I to do that . I be very concerned that the issue have not be properly discuss . I again remind hon . member that if we vote on the Bill , these matter have not be fully test with the profession concern , as we have hear from the Royal College of Psychiatrists this week and from many of the other profession who would have to grapple with the legislation in practical term . what we be do now be legislate for the real practice of deliver those measure , and we have not have time to fully explore that . rise — I remind member that we currently have a 15 - minute guide limit for speech , so please help each other so that as many member as possible can speak . this House be now face with a responsibility as profound as it be complex : to ensure that this Bill remain clear in its purpose , cautious in its application and compassionate in its impact . that purpose be simple , yet solemn : to grant adult of sound mind with a terminal diagnosis the legal right to seek assistance to end their life in carefully regulate circumstance through a legal framework in which compassion and control co - exist . with that in mind , I rise to speak against new clause 1 , 2 and 9 , which , while no doubt well intentione , threaten to confuse , dilute or duplicate what be already a well - construct piece of legislation . I begin with new clause 1 and 2 . new clause 1 would prohibit healthcare professional from raise the topic of assist dying unless it be first broach by the patient . while that may be appeal superficially as a safeguard , it represent a fundamental misunderstanding of the doctor - patient relationship . we trust our clinician every day to raise subject of great complexity and moral weight . do the hon . Member agree that , unfortunately , some of our constituent up and down the country do not trust our clinician ? they have grave concern about the way in which they be treat , because they feel that they do not have a level of equality within our NHS , which be sadly the case . that be explain and show during covid . I be grateful to the hon . member for that intervention . I fear there be some rhetoric that engender a fear around the medical profession , which be misplace . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way in a moment , if I may . those be not my experience in clinical practice , nor be they those of family member who have work in it . we must trust our medical professional , who be highly trained and capable individual , to have these difficult and complex conversation , which they do every day on issue such as aggressive chemotherapy or the withdrawal of ventilation . the hon . Gentleman , like I , sit on the Bill Committee . he hear , as I do , that if somebody have a learn disability , they be five time more likely to have a " do not resuscitate " order place on they during the pandemic . do he hear that evidence ? why do he not agree with it ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . these be complex conversation that take place up and down the country every day ; we know that they be take place in St Thomas ' hospital at this moment . we be treat our medical professional as though they do not take their professional obligation seriously . we must recognise the expertise that they bring and the sensitivity in which they have these conversation . I wonder if the hon . Gentleman have the experience , as I and the relative of many disabled people up and down this country have , of have to fight the medical profession to get the attention and the worth that a love one deserve when the medical profession be not listen to we or to what that love one need . that be the experience of many people up and down this country . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her intervention . I commend those family member who be really powerful advocate for their child , parent and relative in their engagement with the medical profession . we be at real danger of treat our clinician as though they have no care for their patient — I be sure that all of we in this place respect and value our medical professional . the simple point to make be that not everyone who go before the medical profession have the same experience or confidence as some of we in this place . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . that be why it be so important that we have the rigorous training and safeguard that be a fundamental part of this Bill . rise — I will make some progress , if I may . the point be that people can not have a fully inform discussion and weigh up the balance of the decision if they do not know the full option available to they . that be a part of informed consent . will the hon . member give way ? I will make a little progress , if I may . in respect of new clause 2 , those who have have the privilege of meet a young person live with a terminal illness will know that they often display a maturity and a depth of understanding far beyond their year . to deny they the opportunity of a consider conversation about their future upon reach adulthood be not an act of compassion , in my view ; it be to abandon they . it be to leave they isolated , navigate a complex and deeply personal journey through the filter of online forum , rather than in dialogue with trust , qualified professional . we owe they well than that . my constituent Noah be diagnose at 16 with an inoperable brain tumour , and he have say he would like the right to choose : " the thought of be lock in unable to communicate be not how I want to spend the last month of my life . to end my life on my term when the time come would give I comfort . " Noah do not want to be infantilise ; he want to be treat like the adult that he be . do the hon . Gentleman not agree that the Bill will give he that protection ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her intervention . that be a very powerful personal story from Noah , who I think reflect the maturity of many young people when deal with these challenging issue . by impose , in effect , a statutory gag in this one area , new clause 1 and 2 risk infantilise terminally ill patient , create a chilling effect on communication at the very moment when clarity and compassion be most need . if anything , new clause 1 and 2 may result in harm to patient , force they to suffer in silence , unaware of lawful option simply because they do not know how to ask . finally , I turn to new clause 9 , which present a number of issue . in the first instance , subsection ( 1 ) would permit there to be , in effect , two different standard of proof . that must be legal nonsense . the boundary of any legal test or hurdle must be clear . a failure to do so create a great deal of uncertainty . furthermore , the proposal to shift the standard of proof from the civil to the criminal , require panel to operate on the standard of beyond reasonable doubt , be deeply inappropriate . the balance of probability be the cornerstone of medical and civil decision making . to adopt a criminal threshold risk freeze the entire process , create a very risk - averse system . with new clause 9 , we be talk about the occasion when the final potion be deliver to the patient to kill they . we do not deprive people of their liberty without prove something beyond all reasonable doubt . why should we deprive someone of their life if we be not go to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that that be their will ? I be grateful to the hon . and learn Gentleman for his intervention . these be individual who be make this ultimate choice for themselves . my fear be that this well - intentione new clause would make the Bill so unusable as to become ineffective . we be not prosecute a crime here ; we be enable a choice under tightly prescribe circumstance . while I accept that each of these new clause in their own way seek to improve the Bill , we must be cautious about layer protection to the point of paralysis . the Bill as draft be not a blank cheque — it contain safeguard , panel oversight and rigorous eligibility criterion . let we not bury its moral clarity under legal clutter . in defend this legislation , we be not abandon care ; we be affirm dignity . let we do so with confidence and reject these amendment . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like your advice . Mr Speaker say that more than 90 people wish to speak in the debate . we have be debate the amendment for an hour and a half and four speech have be make . if we go to 2 o ' clock , that will mean few than 20 speaker . I understand that whether a closure motion can be move be at the discretion of the Chair . if we have not get past , let we say , 20 or 30 member speak in the debate , can you give we any indication of whether , if you be still in the Chair , you would accept a closure motion at that point ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . we will cross that bridge when we come to it . we be currently ask member to keep their contribution to 15 minute and that , of course , will be reassess very shortly — I can give he assurance about that . Madam Deputy Speaker , since I have be in the Chamber , I have receive the truly awful news that three people die last night in a fire in Bicester , include two member of the Oxfordshire Fire and Rescue Service . the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) have have to leave the Chamber to liaise with those on the ground and we both want to take this opportunity , if we may , to convey our deep sorrow for and solidarity with the family of those who have die , and our fervent and heartfelt good wish to the two firefighter who remain in a serious condition . we be grateful for their heroism and that of their colleague when , as ever , they run towards danger to serve we all . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I rise to speak in favour of new clause 16 and amendment 14 , and I be very grateful for the opportunity to speak . when the Bill first come before the House , I be a Minister attend Cabinet and therefore unable to speak on the subject . I genuinely thank my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) and every single Member who serve for so many hour on the Bill Committee for this incredibly important Bill . I also thank the hundred of my constituent who have contact I with their view . I genuinely believe that every single one of they be motivate by compassion and a determination to reduce suffering , and in many case their view be shape by their experience of death and of suffer in life . I know that that be the case for many of we in the Chamber as well , so I hope that the same spirit of respect that we see previously will continue throughout the passage of the Bill , whatever our view may be . new clause 16 ( 1 ) ( a ) would exclude from the scope of the Bill those who do not want to be a burden on other or on public service , and paragraph ( b ) would exclude those experience a mental disorder , include depression . on the former , we have discuss this morning whether it be appropriate to mention international analogy . they will , of course , be instrumentalise by those who have different view about this important subject . I have personally find survey evidence from the Oregon example of people express that they feel they be a burden to be highly compelling . I do not believe that it indicate that that be the primary reason why they seek assist dying , but I believe that it be an important piece of evidence that we need to take into account . I also believe that we need to look at situation where people who be potentially subject to coercion have be evaluate by professional in our society , and where we might be concern about the outcome . I ask for member ' understanding here . on the point that the right hon . Lady have just raise , the Oregon example suggest that in 2023 , 47 people who opt for assist dying give as one of their primary motivation that they feel they be a burden to other . be that not a great concern for everybody in the Chamber ? do it not undermine the argument about pass the Bill on the ground of autonomy ? that argument be not accurate , because the provision affect the autonomy of people who will self - coerce . I personally believe that it do . I have hear countless time the phrase , " I do not want to be a burden . " I know member will come to different conclusion about whether it be sufficiently exclude by the Bill . I believe it need to be on the face of the Bill , so that we can ensure that it be out of scope . I table an amendment to ensure that the self - define responsibility to go for assist dying do not become a rationale . what be the right hon . Lady ' s view on the impact of intersectionality on this issue ? we know that , in practical term , a number of people do not have full control over their life . the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , make the point that people who be often push around by their family and their wide society — particularly woman from ethnic minority — will be at particular risk from the gentle advice or suggestion from authority figure to whom they will be overly deferential , which could lead they into a very dangerous position . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman . I believe it be exactly those individual who would be more likely to be subject to coercion by other , and I be afraid the evidence do indicate that . sadly , we can see it in the experience of our court , which have deal with so - call mercy killing . I appreciate that many member in this Chamber would not want that example to be use in the context of this discussion — of course , we be talk about something very different from those court case . none the less , I believe it be instructive that in those case , highly train legal professional have often describe the action , particularly those of former partner , as motivate by compassion , but when the circumstance have be investigate in detail , there have be substantial evidence of coercion and abuse . it be important that we consider that now . be my right hon . friend reassure by the fact that the Bill create a criminal offence of coercion and pressure , which do not exist at the moment ? no one be check for coercion when victim of domestic abuse or other take their own life under desperate circumstance . I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point . I believe the Bill have be substantially improve through the many amendment that she and other have table . I know that these issue be discuss in detail in Committee , but I have to be honest : sadly , the prospect of a prosecution have often not be sufficient to prevent abuse . I note that in the discussion in Committee , a number of medical professional mention that they often have to assess whether coercion have take place and that they be confident in that assessment , but there be a huge amount of contestation around whether that confidence be rightly place or otherwise . do my right hon . friend share my concern that there will only be three hour for a panel , and that the first and second doctor might not actually know the patient or have meet they ? their ability to spot coercion will be very limited . yes , I do share my hon . friend ' s concern in that regard . sadly , we all know how perpetrator of coercion operate . they will often school the subject of their coercion in how to respond to questioning , to try to hide what they be do from other . that be a concern . do my right hon . friend not see that , in Committee , we be very aware of coercion ? that be one of the reason why we have a social worker on the panel of expert . additionally , clause 1 ( 2 ) ( b ) say it will be necessary to establish that a person " have make the decision that they wish to end their own life voluntarily and have not be coerce or pressure by any other person " . it be very clear in the Bill . I very much appreciate my hon . friend ' s effort , and those of my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley , to ensure that these matter be cover in Committee . sadly , because of the pattern of behaviour that we see time and again with those who have be subject to coercion , I do not believe that the safeguard go far enough . that be my assessment , and I know that other member will come to a different view . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress , because I know other wish to speak . I want to speak briefly about subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) of new clause 16 , which relate to mental disorder . colleague will dispute whether analogy be appropriate , but it be important that the House be aware — this be cover in Committee — that in the Netherlands , which of course have a different regime from the one propose in the Bill , two case involve psychiatric suffering be subject to assist dying in 2010 ; in 2023 , that figure be 138 . that be a very substantial increase . I understand that , as be say early , it be a completely different set of circumstance in the dutch case , but I be concerned that there be some confusion about the scope of the mental capacity provision in the Bill . I support the Bill on Second Reading on condition that it would be strengthen to tackle the issue of capacity . do the right hon . Lady accept that the Bill that we see today be very different from the one that we see on second reading ? there be a requirement for capacity . if there be any doubt at all , a doctor be compel to report that person for additional assessment , and independent advocate have be introduce for people with learn disability , autism or mental disorder . social worker be now include in the panel of expert , specific training on mental capacity be require , and there be a disability advisory board too . do the right hon . Lady — Order . I agree that the Bill have be improve , but there be a difference between mental capacity , at least as assess by medical professional , and the presence of mental disorder . I know the Committee examine that subject at length . it be very clear from the discussion in Committee that it anticipate that element such as be able to assess information and make judgment between alternative would be cover by the mental capacity provision — but the evaluation of those alternative , which can be impact by mental disorder , be not part of that process . the reality be that those subject to a number of mental disorder — include , sadly , eat disorder — may be highly intelligent and may well be able to carry out many logical procedure to assess information , but their evaluation of the value of their future life and their assessment of the value of bodily control , in relation to other factor , be different from those of someone who be not ill . I believe that issue have not be fully understand . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will not give way at the moment . that be why it be important that that exclusion be put very clearly on the face of the Bill . do my right hon . friend agree that clause 2 ( 3 ) make it very clear that no one can qualify for assistance under the Bill by reason only of either disability or mental disorder unless they also have six month ' terminality and capacity ? I be aware of what my hon . Friend quite rightly refer to . of course , any such condition would have to be coterminous with a terminal illness , but we know — the Committee thrash this out for a long period — that depression be often present at the same time as a diagnosis of terminal illness . we also know that concept such as " terminal anorexia " have start to be use in certain context . that unfortunately suggest that , despite the many protestation of those who understandably support the Bill , there be the possibility that those subject to eat disorder will be pull within its scope . I be very pleased that amendment 14 would rule that out — it be important that it do so . it be critical that this Chamber send that message too , give the potential confusion about scope . I be very grateful for the opportunity to speak to new clause 16 and amendment 14 . above all , I hope we can continue this important discussion , which be critical for so many of our constituent . I call the Father of the House . I wish to speak to new clause 16 and 17 . rather than give my own view , I think that powerful testimony on behalf of someone who actually run a care home should be hear by the House . I want to quote , as briefly as possible , Dan Hayes , who run the Orders of St John Care Trust , which run care home in Lincoln generally and in my constituency : " we believe that the Bill as draft be flawed , and the risk to old , vulnerable people , reside within social care environment be substantial . we believe that any assumption by those draft the final legislation that it be not intend for use by those live with condition regard as part of the age process , would be mistake . any legislation would be immediately test and assume to be accessible to such a cohort of people . to that end we believe that in order to provide the necessary protection to such a vulnerable part of our society , the Bill must be explicit in its reference to old people live in residential service . " that be why these new clause be so important . he continue : " the Bill must take account of the current unfairness and instability at the heart of our social care system , and question whether such legislation can be introduce whilst such problem exist . the Bill must recognise that an individual health / social care professional ' s ability to remove themselves from the process of Assisted Dying be so difficult , that specific exclusion of the care home sector should be a feature of the Bill . in any case , organisation , and site , should be give the ability to exclude themselves from the act of an assist death without prejudice to their approval as provider of service to the state . " we have experience of that , with regard to catholic adoption agency . there be a real risk that some care home may feel they have to withdraw from this sector . I will carry on quote : " those that fund their own care pay substantial sum , often save for over a lifetime — include property wealth . these saving will have be set aside for retirement and to pass on to love one . instead , they be use to fund the cost of their own residential care , and to substantially subsidise the state . we see the real prospect that those that might fit the criterion for assist die under the Bill , but have no wish to accelerate their death , would feel an immediate dilemma between prolong their own life , and the future quality of life of their love one . for illustrative purpose , the six - month period state within the current Bill would equate to between £ 25 , 000 and £ 40 , 000 of expense bear by an individual pay for their own residential care in the current system . failing in the system mean that old people who should not be in hospital be hold there , cause a burden to the NHS , and Local Authorities face an ever - grow proportion of funding need to support social care , without a proportionate increase in funding from central government . " will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I wish to be mindful of other people , so I will proceed and make this one simple point on behalf of care home . Mr Hayes continue : " during the pandemic , we see the appalling attempt at a widespread use of ' do not attempt Resuscitation ' arrangement for old people . this be a clear demonstration that an exist break system place a low value upon the life of old people than of other . " this be the important point : " relationship within residential care for old people be both professional and intimate . carer , Care Leaders , and Service Managers be all competent health and social care professional , but they be also friend and confidante of those that live within social care service . the relationship be familial in the sense of contact for hour each day and the extension of support to ordinary , everyday issue outside the scope of normal healthcare professional . our employee deliver love care and build relationship in a way that resident come to depend upon and take comfort from . such relationship be key to excellent care provision , and these important relationship enhance and prolong life by provide a sense of purpose and place to old people . " I have be around these care home . they be fantastic place , with such love and such care for the most vulnerable in society . my Hayes then continue : " in such a setting , it render the ability for an individual to refuse to partake … as useless . in an environment such as a care home , there be no way in which a professional could be fully ' separated ' from assist dying , should a resident they work with closely seek to enquire about or make a request . imagine a scenario where an individual live in social care be at the point where they will be provide with the approve substance to bring about their own death : in a care home , this be likely to be in their own room , which will be in close proximity to many other old people who live within that setting . it will be commonplace and understandable that the magnitude of the event will mean that the individual will wish to have company and comfort up to and immediately before / during the period in which the substance be take . a request for the company of a care professional will create a substantial moral dilemma for that person , profoundly so if they be individually oppose to Assisted Dying . " that be the choice that these love care worker will have to make — that would be the pressure on they . he go on to say : " even where they be not , it will mean that they will intimately witness the death of someone with whom they have a strong bond , with that death have come about through facilitation , rather than naturally . " imagine the pressure on the worker in that care home . Mr Hayes continue : " the scenario be make bad by the prospect of an assisted death not result in a quick nor painless death . there be example from other jurisdiction of significant complication lead to painful death and deeply traumatic experience for love one . social care professional should not be expose to the risk of such experience . " in conclusion , he ask the House of Commons " to consider the unworkable nature of individual exclusion from the process of Assisted Dying for social care professional . consequently , specific exclusion of the care home sector should be a feature of the Bill . in any case , organisation , and site , should " — and must — " be give the ability to exclude themselves from the act of an assist death . " I rise to speak in support of new clause 10 , which be about choice . in fact , the Bill be about choice : choice at the end of life and choice to have a dignified death . it be about a choice that be currently be deny to many in untreatable , excruciating pain at the end of their life — a choice that the majority in this country would want for themselves . new clause 10 be in that same spirit . it would offer practitioner a choice , by ensure that there be no obligation on any person to provide assistance to a terminally ill adult seek an assisted death . that include those such as my constituent Aimee ' s grandmother , who repeatedly ask she , " when will it end ? " from the bed in her hospice , where , despite the good effort of staff , they be medically unable to treat her constant pain and legally unable to make good on her wish to , in her own word , be help to go . the Bill allow doctor to choose not to participate in the assisted dying process if they so wish . the new clause would improve it by extend that provision to all register medical practitioner , health professional , social care professional , pharmacist and pharmacy technician . it would also make it clear that no person be under any duty to act as a witness or a proxy in the process . it would far amend the Employment Rights Act 1996 to ensure that no one could be subject to detriment by their employer for provide assistance to those seek an assisted death or for choose not to do so . that be a good thing : it respect people ' s choice . some will not want to aid someone seek an assisted death because of religious or other principled objection , but some , like my constituent Karen , will want to . Karen write to I set out her father - in - law ' s terminal diagnosis of a brain tumour , his fear of lose control of mental and bodily function as his condition progress and his hope that the Bill would pass in time for he to benefit from it . Karen be not simply a relative of a terminally ill person ; she spend year work in palliative care , watch people lose their independence and dignity as a result of their terminal illness , with patient ask she how they could end the suffering for both themselves and their family . she be heartbroken to witness their distress and pain over day , week or even month , know that nothing could be do for they . in their painful final stretch , some feel suicidal and some feel a burden . for that reason , I must oppose new clause 16 , which would rule ineligible for assist die anyone who be substantially motivate by a number of factor , include feel a burden , or suicidal ideation . I be surprise by the hon . Gentleman ' s objection to new clause 16 , give that we have be assure throughout that the Bill would apply only to people who be terminally ill with six month to live . be he really say , therefore , that he do not want a new clause that would rule out from assist death people who feel that they would be a burden on other , people with a mental disorder and people with a disability ? his argument for choice be exactly the argument that in other jurisdiction have lead to the expansion of assist death to just those kind of people . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that intervention , because it allow I to continue make an argument that will address those point . first , substantial motivation be vague , undefined and legally imprecise . this new clause be a blunt instrument and an attempt to shut the door on entire group of people access an assist death . how would one establish what a substantially motivate factor in any individual case be ? no motivation exist in a vacuum , and feel a burden can co - exist with physical deterioration and untreatable pain . secondly , if suicidal ideation be to think about die by take one ' s own life , would that not encompass everyone consider assist die ? I think today of Norman Ward , who in 2020 shoot himself while terminally ill because of the terrible pain that he face . do my hon . friend agree that under subsection ( f ) of new clause 16 , Norman Ward would have be unable to access the choice that would have end his suffering ? I agree with my hon . friend . similarly , I can not support amendment 102 , which would require doctor to ensure that there be no " remediable suicide risk factor " before conduct a preliminary discussion with the patient . there be no clear legal or clinical definition of the term " remediable suicide risk factor " , and the Bill already include multiple check on mental capacity and mental illness , include by independent doctor and a specialist panel . the vagueness of this amendment risk wreck this much - need Bill . I email Karen again yesterday to ask if I could refer to she in this speech . her father - in - law have sadly die in the time that have pass between her initial email and our exchange yesterday . the Bill be not pass in time for he and he could not benefit from it . however , Karen hope that his story could make some small contribution to change the law . there do not need to be more people in Karen ' s father - in - law ' s position , or in Aimee ' s grandmother ' s position — they can have choice at the end of life , and our brilliant palliative care workforce , like Karen , can have choice on the kind of care they provide too . will my hon . friend give way ? I be afraid I must make progress . I therefore hope that member across the House will join I in support new clause 10 , strengthen the Bill and reinforce the fact that choice , for patient and practitioner , be at the heart of this legislation , and I hope they will oppose the amendment and new clause that would wreck the Bill and put that choice at risk . rise — before I call the next speaker , I will be ask member after he to limit their comment to eight minute . I start by thank the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for introduce the Bill and for give I the opportunity to serve on the Bill Committee . I rise to speak in favour of my amendment 4 , which go to the very heart of what the Bill be all about : dignity , compassion and choice at the end of life . my hon . friend be right to point out that compassion and fairness for those who be terminally ill be rightly at the heart of the Bill . do he agree with my constituent who would like to see it extend to those terminally ill with motor neurone disease and neurodegenerative disorder , to give they choice and dignity , too , by extend the eligibility period ? [ interruption . ] I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . it be really interesting how the debate be conduct on Second Reading and in Committee , and how we be mean to be have that respectful debate , and it be disappointing to hear comment from opponent already . amendment 4 seek a simple yet crucial change to extend the eligibility period for those with neurodegenerative condition , from six month to 12 month , something that be already reflect in legislation in five of six australian state . my amendment mirror the wording use in that legislation , and it be base not on conjecture but on medical reality , international precedent and , most importantly , the live experience of those face some of the most harrowing disease imaginable . amendment 4 would not expand the Bill ' s reach beyond terminal condition ; it simply acknowledge that for people with condition such as MND and other neurodegenerative disease , the current six - month prognosis requirement create a cruel and unnecessary barrier . I be sure that the House will be interested to note that the jurisdiction of Scotland , as well as the Crown dependency of the Isle of Man and Jersey , have variation that be different from what have be discuss . will the hon . member join I in commiserate with the family of Iola Dorkins , a campaigner I mention back in November ? she die of motor neurone disease on her birthday last week . let we remember that we be do this for real people who be undergo real suffering at the end of life . the right hon . Member make a pertinent point about other jurisdiction and the different Bills and conversation around they that they have . I table my amendment in order to ensure that we have that debate in this place . I extend my condolence to the family . these be progressive , irreversible disease ; their trajectory be well understand ; and their toll be devastating . People with MND , for instance , often face a relentless loss of muscle function , leave they unable to move , speak or even swallow . before they reach the six - month prognosis threshold , they may already be endure intolerable suffering . crucially , many will lose the capacity necessary to make an application before they ever qualify . the Bill already contain the most robust protection of any assisted die Bill in the world , with mandatory capacity assessment , a multi - step approval process and a clear requirement for terminal illness . we have go far than any other jurisdiction in term of safeguard . may I posit the idea that what my hon . friend be suggest , and what the previous intervention be suggest , be a slippery slope ? it be an enormous concern , and I suspect that in a few year ' time we will see a very different Bill . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . the amendment be design to stop our have a conversation about eligibility after this Bill . I want to see a Bill that stop the argument about a slippery slope and give equitable access to people with all health condition . will the hon . member give way ? I will make a little progress . we have go far than any other jurisdiction in term of safeguard . why , then , if we be satisfied that our safeguard be robust , be we exclude those with neurodegenerative disease — people who be terminally ill — on the basis of an arbitrary timeframe ? we say that the Bill be about choice , but for someone who have already lose the ability to speak or move and who know that they be on a rapid decline , what choice do we offer ? be we say , " wait until your prognosis hit six month , if a doctor can say so with confidence , and then hope that you will still have the cognitive ability to apply " ? will the hon . member give way ? I will make progress . let I speak to the reality of my amendment with a story from a constituent who do not wish to be name . she write to I about her brother , who die at age 58 from MND . prior to his diagnosis , he be strong , healthy and , as she put it , a lot of fun . he be a great family man , but it be dreadful to watch his illness progress , and it have a profound impact on the family . it take 18 month of effort , worry and deep distress before he finally pass away . he want to have control over the time of his death , know what be to come . my constituent write : " a difficult subject for most of we to contemplate , but in his particular case the possibility of assist dying would have give he much comfort . " will the hon . member give way ? I will make a little progress , as I be in the middle of a quotation . it continue : " unless you be actually affect by something as desperate as MND , you can not understand what it really mean to have such an option . " my constituent be right . we can debate legal safeguard , ethic and precedent all day in this Chamber , but for those who be live with devastating disease , this be not theoretical ; it be personal , it be urgent and it be real . this be a very personal one for I , because much of my motivation for support the Bill come from have watch a member of my family die of motor neurone disease . although perhaps it would have be preferable if motor neurone disease and other degenerative disease could have be include , I accept that we do not want to go down the slippery slope . however , there be a difference between extend the Bill to degenerative disease such as motor neurone disease and extend it to other condition . perhaps we could consider support that , because I would not want anyone to go through what I witness , without the choice to end it without go through more pain . I thank my hon . friend for that powerful and compelling intervention . we risk create a two - tier system . we say that we want to fix the status quo because we know that it be not work , but if the Bill force people such as my constituent ' s brother to consider die early — or bad , to have to travel abroad for an assist death in another far - off , distant country under different law — then have we really change anything ? we may be tell people with cancer that they can access a dignified death under the Bill , but also tell those with neurodegenerative condition such as MND that they must either endure prolonged suffering or act prematurely , just to stay ahead of a tick clock . that be not justice , in my view , and it be certainly not compassion . international experience back up the amendment . in Victoria , where a 12 - month limit apply to neurodegenerative condition , only 7 % of applicant lose capacity before they can proceed . in New Zealand , where the six - month threshold remain , many people be exclude because they lose that ability too soon . we know that MND take more than 2 , 000 life a year in the UK alone — six people every single day . I ask colleague not to turn away from those people ; not to dismiss their fear , their hope or their plea for fairness . rise — I will make some progress . the amendment be not about erode the careful work that the Bill Committee have do to expand the rigorous safeguard already in the Bill ; it be about ensure that some people with the cruell terminal condition be not leave out of the option that we be seek to give other . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be bring my remark to a close . if we believe in dignity , let we ensure it be a dignity that include everyone ; if we believe in autonomy , let we not deny it to those who may lose their voice tomorrow ; and if we believe in compassion , let it be a compassion that recognise the lived reality of all terminal illness and do not consign those with MND to the status quo . mindful of time and of the need to allow other colleague to speak , I have be carefully to ensure that my speech be short . I will therefore not be take any intervention . I vote against the Bill on Second Reading , on the ground that there be inadequate safeguard against the coercion of minority community . that be base on my belief that , if we be to legislate for something as serious as the end of someone ' s life , then the bar that the legislation must reach in order for it to be deem safe need to be much high than it be in other area . in the time since , I have follow closely the scrutiny that the Bill have receive at Committee and on Report . I have hope that my concern would be address , but I be sad to say that I be even more worried now than I be then . before get to the new clause and amendment that would provide important safeguard , I want to state again that I do not think the Bill be the appropriate mechanism for a national decision of this magnitude to be make , and ultimately , any decision on it should be lead by the Government and the clear will of this House , not on promise make to people without an elect mandate . I pay tribute to the work of tireless campaigner on a number of important issue in relation to the scrutiny of this Bill since Second Reading . that work result in many amendment and new clause be table by member from across the House to attempt to strengthen the protection for at - risk group . as I allude to , I sadly do not have enough time to speak to all of those that I support , but I be grateful for the effort of the many who have lead and speak in this debate . I will speak to amendment 16 , which stand in my name . it would make it explicit in clause 28 that there would be no obligation on any care home or hospice that be regulate by the Care Quality Commission or the Care Inspectorate Wales to provide assist dying on its premise . I understand that my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) have table new clause 10 to replace clause 28 and thereby ensure that there be no obligation on anyone to provide assistance . while I welcome the expansion of protection that that provide to practitioner who do not wish to provide assistance , I do not believe that it be comprehensive . Dr Jamilla Hussain , a palliative care consultant work predominantly with ethnic minority community in Bradford , give oral evidence to the Bill Committee . she say : " I have go into those community and I have speak to they about this Bill . what they say overwhelmingly to I be , ' we ' re scared . we ' re really fearful that this be go to result in a disproportionate impact on our community . we have see that through covid and we ' re so scared . " – – [ Official Report , Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Public Bill Committee , 29 January 2025 ; c . 187 , Q245 . ] heartbreakingly , she also say : " almost every week , one of the first thing I have to reassure patient about be that I can not legally do anything to shorten their life . this be front and centre of the fear for those patient and we see it all the time . " – – [ Official Report , Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Public Bill Committee , 29 January 2025 ; c . 190 , q247 . ] this be not an academic or theoretical risk . be we really prepared to sideline those unheard voice and risk embed further inequality in healthcare as we legislate ? we be all elect to this place to elevate the voice of those who feel that they be furth away from power . if we be to achieve that , we must make decision that honour their experience , and legislate to protect they , but if hospice be unable to opt out of a collective policy of provide assist dying , the people who already feel ignore by healthcare system be more likely to fear access the care that they need at the end of their life . that would create far unnecessary suffering , and I know that we be all unite in want to avoid that . I do not doubt the good intention of any member choose to support this Bill , and I thank the many constituent , on both side of the debate , who have contact I . however , we politician have to be clear that member with valid concern about this Bill be raise they not because of some ideology or religious belief , but because we recognise that if this Bill pass , it may impact everyone , not just those who wish to die . it be not wrong or scaremongere to consider wide family life , relationship in which there be feeling of burden or coercion , and vulnerable woman and people from the BME community at the end of their life . it be not wrong or scaremongere for we politician , as we continue to receive correspondence from our constituent about the broken state of our NHS and social care , to think carefully about a Bill that may alter the relationship between doctor and their patient . it be frankly insult to disabled people and hard - work professional up and down the country to have their many valid concern about this Bill dismiss as religious belief . sadly , I have come to the conclusion that instead of give a universal right to dignity in death , this Bill would reinforce the health inequality that deprive so many from our vulnerable community of dignity in life . I urge member to keep that at the forefront of their mind as we vote today , and to reject this Bill . I be grateful to speak in this debate , and I will focus on three amendment : new clause 9 and amendment 51 and 38 . to save time , so that other member can speak , I will not take intervention . new clause 9 , which be in my name , would essentially establish the standard of proof — namely , the degree of certainty and the amount of evidence — require in decision making under this Bill . let I put that into context . various standard of proof be use in law . at the very low end of the scale be reasonable belief , which be a belief that would be hold by an ordinary person in the same circumstance . there be then the civil standard of proof , know as the balance of probability , which be sometimes know as the 50 % plus one rule , or " more likely than not " . finally , we have the most serious standard : the " beyond reasonable doubt " test , which apply for criminal case . that go far than the balance of probability , and require the person to be sure . give the lack of clarity and confusion in Committee about whether the test for doctor should be reasonable belief or the balance of probability , I have propose the new clause . as member will see , it have three part . subsection ( 1 ) relate to the assessment by the co - ordinating and independent doctor . as member will see , it have three part . subsection ( 1 ) relate to the assessment by the co - ordinating and independent doctor . here I argue that the balance of probability test should be use , because it feel perhaps overly punitive to exclude someone from the process at the initial stage if it be more likely than not that they will meet the test , but there be some doubt . however , under subsection ( 2 ) , when the assist die review panel be make its assessment , it must use the " beyond reasonable doubt " test . give that , at this stage , it will have all the report from the doctor and professional , if it be not sure beyond a reasonable doubt , the application should not be approve . that be an essential safeguard . subsection ( 3 ) relate to the moment of supply the lethal drug . the doctor be require to satisfy themselves that the person have capacity and a clear , settle and informed wish to end their life , and be not be coerce . at that point , the " balance of probability " test do not suffice ; it must be " beyond reasonable doubt " — this be life and death . all hon . member need to ask themselves whether , without this new clause , they be happy with someone be provide with lethal drug to end their life by our NHS in circumstance where we be not absolutely certain of their intention . I acknowledge , for the record , that the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) have make an objection to the use of " beyond reasonable doubt " , ask whether it be right to apply a criminal standard of proof when a civil standard may be flexible enough . however , I note that in the House of Lords in re b case in 2008 , Baroness Hale say , " there be some proceeding , though civil in form , whose nature be such that it be appropriate to apply the criminal standard of proof , " and a subsequent 2012 case affirm that . if we stay silent and let the assist die review panel and the court try to work out whether they should interpret " satisfied " as mean satisfied to the civil or criminal standard , it would merely result in numerous litigation battle . on a matter as serious as death , Parliament must provide the clarity need . without it , the Bill be simply not safe . the second area I be focus on be inform consent and complication , through amendment 51 to clause 11 . the amendment would impose a duty on assess doctor to inform individual seek an assisted death of any reasonable body of medical or scientific opinion indicate that the prescribed substance carry risk of complication , include pain . clause 11 require doctor to explain how the drug be expect to bring about death , and to discuss with the individual what ought to be do in the event of complication . however , it omit a critical element identify by the General Medical Council in its guidance on consent : the obligation to communicate known risk of harm and the uncertainty surround those risk . a patient can not be say to give informed consent if they be not make aware of the full range of potential complication , include pain , distress and the possibility that the drug may not act as expect . the state of Oregon ' s most recent data show that complication be record in approximately 3 % of case in 2023 , but historical datum show a complication rate of 11 % . since the introduction of the law there , there have be nine record incident of patient regain consciousness after ingest the prescribed substance , and time to death have range from three minute to 137 hour — that is , more than five and a half day . canadian study indicate that around 5 % of oral assist death result in a prolonged and often distressing process . in some instance , medical intervention be require . evidence also suggest that young adult , particularly those age 18 to 24 , be more likely to experience extended and unpredictable death . furthermore , not all complication may be outwardly evident . high dose of barbiturate , combine with paralytic agent that suppress all voluntary muscle movement , may result in what outwardly appear to be a calm and peaceful death , but that may conceal considerable psychological suffering . the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) talk about offer choice , but a choice make in the absence of information be not true autonomy ; it be abdication . make a meaningful decision require the individual to be aware of not only what be intend to happen , but what may plausibly go wrong . in both Oregon and California , legislation explicitly require that patient be inform of any known risk associate with the medication to be administer , so why would we adopt a less standard here ? the amendment simply call for honesty . finally , but briefly , I also want to add my support for amendment 38 , which clarify that an individual who be not already terminally ill under the definition of clause 2 ( 1 ) can not qualify by refuse standard treatment or take step to induce a terminal condition . I live with type 1 diabete , which , for the record , be a progressive illness that can not be reverse by treatment . this condition be manage — or not , in case of extreme stress — solely by the individual . I therefore recognise that the amendment be an incredibly important protection . diabetic face multiple daily injection , and have to think about and monitor everything that they do , 24 / 7 , and they can be at risk of diabetic distress , or even develop disorder eating . that could prove fatal if standard treatment be not accept . they should never be offer assist suicide ; they could recover with the right support . I have speak to the hon . member for Spen Valley about my concern that condition like diabete may be catch unintentionally . the amendment would be a step to protect those who may be unable to protect themselves use standard mean . diabetes and anorexia have be a reason for assist suicide in Oregon , so please be aware of what could happen . on a personal note , not long after I be diagnose as a type 1 diabetic , I suffer diabetic distress . I do not know how I could continue with this condition , but I convince every single person at my workplace that I be absolutely fine . it be only because my parent catch it that I be in this position today , and be able to get support . please think seriously about the unintended consequence , and protect vulnerable people like I . my decision to support the Bill on Second Reading be one of the hard I have ever have to make . it require I to go into the very depth of myself and draw on my experience as a child in excruciating pain , as well as the extensive poignant experience share with I by my constituent . as I say then , my support be conditional on specific change be make to the Bill in Committee . I be pleased to say that all those change have be make . as a member of the Committee , I can tell the House that it be the most extraordinary cross - party deliberative process I have ever witness in my 20 year of analyse legislation as an academic and policy researcher work in disability law and policy . in Committee , I work to strengthen the voice of disabled people , and their protection under the Bill . I move motion to introduce clause 20 on independent advocate and clause 44 , which would create a disability advisory board . these provision be augment today by amendment 75 and 91 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . clause 20 would establish the role of independent advocate . they would advocate for qualifying person who engage with the Bill , so that those person can effectively understand their option around end of life care . this would empower disabled people to be treat with the dignity and respect that we deserve . these independent advocate would be require to undertake specialist training , and would be available regardless of whether the individual be ultimately find to be eligible to request an assisted death . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make progress , out of respect for all those on both side of the House who wish to make a speech . the clause flow directly from evidence that we hear from oral witness , include lead disability scholar and disability policy expert . in conjunction with amendment 75 , which be before we today , those with autism , along with a learn disability or a mental disorder as define under the Mental Health Act 1983 , would all qualify for the service of an independent advocate . Amendment 75 , which define a learn disability , would also apply to clause 7 , which provide for specific , up - to - date training for register practitioner on reasonable adjustment and safeguard for autistic people and people with a learn disability . in Committee , I be grateful for the support of my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) and , to my delight , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) for these independent advocate , and for the Committee ' s unanimous support for clause 44 , which would set up the disability advisory board . that advisory board entrench the voice of disabled people in the Bill , embed a long - term and iterative structure for it to report on the Bill ' s implementation and its impact on disabled people to the Secretary of State . crucially , the board must consist of disabled people and representative of disabled people ' s organisation . to build on those clause , amendment 91 expand the duty to collect additional information about whether , immediately before death , the person seek assistance have a disability as define in section 6 of the Equality Act 2010 , other than the disability amount to terminal illness as define in the Bill . so often , control be take away from disabled people in all sort of circumstance . I passionately believe in inclusive healthcare for disabled people . together , all those measure will create a solid foundation to enable disabled people to have a strong voice when advocate for themselves about their choice on end - of - life care and , importantly , a seat at the table in shape the monitoring of the Bill and provide continued scrutiny and accountability . to conclude , there be many moment in Committee when I reflect on how I would want to live a good death , but the most poignant be when Julie Thienpont describe the death of she terminally ill husband , Guy , who seek an assisted death in Spain : " Guy have always be a bit of an old cowboy , and he always say that he want to die with his boot on . I be proud to say that that be what he do . at the end , we be hold hand , and I say to he , ' Don ' t be afraid . ' he say , ' I ' m not afraid , ' and he wink at I just before he close his eye . " – – [ Official Report , Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Public Bill Committee , 30 January 2025 ; c . 258 , Q334 . ] may we all have the opportunity to choose a good death , wear our cowboy boot with the love of our life by our side . I be grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this vital debate . it be imperative that we get the Bill right and that the protection and procedure be watertight . I thank my constituent on both side of the debate who have write to I . I support amendment 4 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , which would allow those with neurodegenerative disease to be eligible for an assisted death if they be within 12 month of die . Nigel Hartley MBE , the chief executive officer of Mountbatten Hampshire hospice in my constituency , tell I that palliative care and assist dying be not and should not be at odd with each other . palliative care can provide incredible support . I be very glad that this debate have reopen the national conversation about funding for palliative care . however , as I know from my personal experience with my mum , who die last March after a seven - year struggle with Alzheimer ' s , sometimes palliative care can only go so far . amendment 4 recognise that those with neurodegenerative illness deserve the same compassion , control and dignity as other at the end of their life . by extend the timeframe to 12 month , they will be give more control over their ultimate decision . I support new clause 10 , which extend the right for any professional to opt out of provide assistance under the Bill , and extend the protection to a broad range of professional who may be involve . I also support amendment 59 and 62 , which relate to training on domestic abuse . those amendment be critical to ensure that the co - ordinating doctor can identify sign of domestic abuse . the inclusion of training enhance the Bill ' s protective framework , as no medical professional without specific and up - to - date training on domestic abuse will be able to serve as a co - ordinating doctor . importantly , amendment 74 define " domestic abuse " use the language of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , which explicitly include coercive , control and economic abuse . amendment 63 remove any ambiguity about the scope of eligibility , and make it clear that only terminal illness qualify under this legislation . that clarity be essential to maintain public trust and ensure that the Bill be not open to misinterpretation or misuse . it can be incredibly difficult for people with disability , and their family and carer , to get their concern across — they can often feel unseen and unheard — so the amendment be vital . finally , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for her work on the Bill and her tremendous courage , determination , willingness to engage and resilience . as other have say , the decision before we be fundamentally about whether we believe in an individual ' s right to have choice at the end of their life . I know what my mum would have say . I rise to speak to amendment 26 , 45 and 46 , which stand in my name and the name of other member . I be grateful for their support . on amendment 26 , hospice care be not a formulation of care , but a clinical setting where palliative care be deliver , so I trust that the House will accept my amendment in the interest of accuracy . on amendment 45 and consequential amendment 46 , the literature point to complex clinical decision making — which the subject of the Bill be — be safe if it happen in the context of multidisciplinary team , as be advocate for by the professional body at the very start of the process . such a context screen out unconscious bias and provide for clinical accountability with robust interdependency . it demand a deliberative process and it safeguard clinician and patient with more secure outcome . I have talk extensively to the professional body and clinician , and I have read the academic evidence . in draw on good practice , this amendment would provide such safeguard and ensure that the patient be at the heart of the process . member will know from the evidence give to the Bill Committee that the initial assessment be the most important part of the process , and clinician and professional body do not understand why psychiatrist and social worker be be place in a quasi - judicial role , rather than be use for their clinical and social expertise . the process make the wrong assumption . without the amendment , there be a predication towards an assist death , rather than the Bill recognise the insecure position that someone with a terminal illness find themselves in and the safeguard that be require . there be many reason for suicidality , and they should be explore . in clinical practice , should someone determine that they want to end their life for whatever reason , a clinician would seek to ensure that the right professional be involve in the care of the person , with exploration , diagnosis and , where necessary , therapeutic and pharmacological intervention . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not . Dr Lade Smith , the president of the Royal College of Psychiatrists , could not have be clear , and academic research say the same : when someone be in receipt of a terminal diagnosis , there be frequently an episode of depressive disorder . Dr Price say in evidence : " those who have a wish to hasten death be 18 time more likely to also feel suicidal " . – – [ Official Report , Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill Public Bill Committee , 30 January 2025 ; c . 275 , Q359 . ] they say that mental disorder be treatable . the spike in suicidal ideation and action be high in the first few month follow terminal diagnosis and then dissipate with time or intervention . again , that be evidence . People change their mind and no long want to die . as with other aspect of the Bill , poor care , poor pain management and poor symptom control — or the fear thereof — be reason why people seek to end their life . that can be palliate . colleague must recognise the paucity of mental health provision give to somebody when they receive a terminal diagnosis . often there be no psychological aftercare . People be fail , but that should not be a reason to die . I ask for a panel , which would include a social worker , to assess the psychological need of a patient . they be expert in detect coercion , whether intrinsic or extrinsic , and understand people at their most vulnerable with a fusion of complex emotion , anxiety and fear . solution can be find by they . there would also be a psychiatrist . depression , anxiety and fear be natural response to trauma , but they can be treat with the right intervention , if detect at the point that somebody express a wish to die , and a person can have a wish to live . the travesty of get it wrong be unconscionable . there would be a palliative care consultant who be register on the GMC ' s specialist register . they would understand the action that could alleviate someone ' s suffer . evidence to the Bill Committee from Sue Ryder show how poor provision lead to someone consider an assisted death . likewise , the president of the Association for Palliative Medicine , Dr Sarah Cox , say : " we know that effective palliative care can change a terminally ill person ' s point of view from want to die to want to live . " – – [ Official Report , Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Public Bill Committee , 28 January 2025 ; c . 70 , Q84 . ] that be evidence . it be a point I have hear from all leader on the Commission on Palliative and end - of - life Care . these be the specialist who know how to palliate the physical , psychological , social and spiritual problem of a patient , and they have technique that many people have not have access to , because of poor provision . the palliative care commission report on Tuesday and I urge hon . member to read its evidence - rich report , which draw on good practice . we report that excellence in end - of - life provision be achievable , but that too many people be not get access to it . without that , I fear that the Bill only lead the patient down one route — to die . this be not a choice at all , but a path to an assisted death . I also ask for two doctor — a generalist and a specialist — one of whom be the co - ordinating doctor . yesterday , the Royal College of Physicians state that there be inadequate protection of patient and professional in the Bill : " notably the propose mechanism of decision making be not in line with good clinical and professional practice … Parliament must address these critical issue in the legislation or risk fail to protect vulnerable patient and uphold the integrity of clinical practice . " this week , the chair of the Royal College of General Practitioners say that it have " real concern about the practical and legal implication " of the Bill . I seek to address the assessment process through my amendment . if the Minister for Care think that just two day of training for a doctor be sufficient , I can tell he that that will not provide they with the necessary competency . however , the impact assessment suggest that the training to be provide will be just 90 minute online , with a 60 - minute interactive training session . that be simply not good enough . poor medicine make assumption , and this Bill certainly do that . it assume that somebody want to die , but it be a clinician ' s duty to have an open and inquire mind , and to seek out reason , not to assume . that be recognise by the Government ' s suicide prevention strategy . only through examination can we establish why someone want to die . chapter 8 of the palliative care commission report highlight that 24 % of the population " do not know much about or have not hear of palliative care " , as be set out in a study by King ' s College London . the Bill presume only an assisted death , not choice . finally , how should this be do ? it should be through separate or joint assessment , and then a panel meeting to deliberate — not a quasi - judicial panel , but evidence - lead assessment where real choice be offer . let we listen to the expert and hear their collective voice : the Bill be unsafe . that be why professional body be speak out against the Bill . my amendment would nudge it to a safe place , but the scale of the concern far exceed this change . colleague , we must follow the expert ' evidence . in view of the number of hon . member who wish to speak in the debate , I will restrict my remark to amendment 47 , 48 and 49 , which stand in my name and the name of other . the amendment focus on the stage in the process that involve the multidisciplinary panel establish by clause 14 , and their purpose be to make that system work well . a panel be intend to be an additional safeguard . the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) have make that very clear , and such panel be the successor to the involvement of a High Court judge assess the merit of each case . the role of the panel be to determine whether it be satisfied of the matter set out in clause 15 ( 2 ) . some of those matter be procedural — for example , whether the person seek the certificate be age over 18 or be resident in the UK , or whether declaration and assessment that should be make have be make . other be matter of judgment , include professional judgment , such as whether an illness be terminal or whether the person apply for a certificate of eligibility have the mental capacity to do so . the remain category of matter to be consider be matter of broad judgment , and I suspect those be likely to be where the panel focus most of its attention , particularly the final two list in clause 15 ( 2 ) : first , whether " the person have a clear , settle and informed wish to end their own life " and , secondly , that there be no coercion or pressure from anyone else . on those matter , the panel will hear from the relevant doctor , who will have have to make a judgment on those thing , but I do not think that the intent of the Bill be or should be that the panel simply confirm that the doctor have reach a judgment and then adopt that judgment . the panel should , of course , reach its own judgment . it be right that the panel will also hear from the person wish to die and will make its assessment of they . particularly on the last matter — the absence of coercion or pressure — it may well be that highly relevant evidence will come from other . it may come from family , friend or other who know the person well , and we be familiar with a least one scenario where a new partner isolate the person in question before they suddenly and unexpectedly change their view on their own assist death . the problem be that under the Bill as it stand it be very difficult , and perhaps impossible , for those who know the person seek a certificate well to know that those proceeding be under way or in prospect . they may not know , and nobody have to tell they , that the person have make the relevant declaration , or even that they have an intention to die , or indeed that there be any reason to submit any evidence they may have . I be not say that every case in which someone have not tell their family and friend of their decision to seek an assisted death will be concern , but I think it be fair to say that a disproportionate number of the concern case will be in that category . in those case , the panel may be make a judgment in the absence of relevant — perhaps crucial — evidence and they simply can not do their job properly if that be so . be the right hon . and learn Member as concerned as I be that the panel do not even need to consider look at evidence from family , friend , or those care for or treat the person ? be he also concerned that although the panel might be require to hear from the person , that will only be in exceptional circumstance and there will be no requirement to ask any question at all ? I understand the hon . Lady ' s point and I have see her amendment on the subject , which be very sensible . we need to think about the way in which the panel process will actually unfold . if we believe that this be an important safeguard , as , I think , be a common view , we need to do everything we can to make sure that it be an effective one . like the hon . Lady ' s amendment , my amendment 47 seek to remedy the problem by ensure that the assist die commissioner notifie anyone they think may have relevant evidence to give so that they can give it . that evidence may , of course , not change the panel ' s decision , but in some of the most troubling case it will , and the opportunity for the panel to consider that evidence , when the stake be so high , must surely be provide for . I accept that what I be propose be an infringement of the privacy of the person wish to die — it be a fetter on their ability to choose to die without inform their family or friend as they may wish — but the Bill be all about balance the right of a person to die as they wish with , on the other hand , our duty to protect the vulnerable from abuse . that be exactly why the stage through which a person must go in order to be assist to die be in this Bill , include obtain the grant of a certificate from a panel . to be of value , as I say , that must surely add new protection to the other stage . we be assure that one of the key safeguard in the Bill ' s original incarnation be a legal test . that process — have it be retain , of course — would have enable the collection of evidence in the very way that my right hon . and learn Friend be describe . it be partly because the safeguard have be weaken that we have the dilemma that his amendment seek to deal with . I understand my right hon . friend ' s point , but I be not sure I entirely agree with he . I think some of the procedural problem I be describe would have exist even with the previous iteration of the Bill , but certainly they be there in its current iteration . at this Report stage , I be seek to fix the problem that arise from the difficulty for the three qualified individual who will constitute these panel to express a consider judgment . if we be to have add value in the panel stage of this process , we surely have to enable the panel to make good judgment . good judgment come from the capacity to assess all the relevant evidence . the Bill , as it stand , make it very hard for the panel to have access to all that evidence in every case , but perhaps especially in those case where the additional safeguard be most need . on the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s point about the panel , the Royal College of Psychiatrists say in point 5 of its concern : " it be not clear what a psychiatrist ' s role on a … panel would be " . the hon . Gentleman make a fair point . I think we can expect that the psychiatrist on the panel will subject the requirement on mental capacity , in particular , to some considerable professional scrutiny , but nobody on the panel , whatever their professional competence may be , be capable of do the job properly if they do not have access to the necessary evidence , so we must make sure they do . the fact that the panel may sit in public be not a sufficient answer to the problem that I be raise . first , that be because there will be many panel consider many case , and we can not expect those who have evidence of coercion , for example , to watch the list in case the person they know happen to appear in they — when , of course , they have no expectation that they will . secondly , the panel will not sit in public in every case . paragraph 6 of schedule 2 say : " panel be to determine referral in public " . that be the clear presumption , and it be welcome , but paragraph 6 ( 2 ) say : " the chair of a panel may , at the request of the person to whom a referral relate , decide that the panel be to sit in private . " I can see nothing in the Bill about any ground on which the panel chair may refuse such a request , so it will occasionally , or perhaps often , be the case that the panel will sit in private , and no one will know what it be do . the next issue be the way a panel will go about make the judgment it need to make , which bring I to amendment 48 . as we all know , most judicial and quasi - judicial hearing in this country be conduct on an adversarial basis . that is , by the way , a reference not to the tone of proceeding but to the presentation of both side of an argument so that the tribunal can reach the right conclusion . that be what our judge and lawyer be use to . that matter here because this quasi - judicial stage in the process of seek assistance to die be be offer as important reassurance that thing will be do safely , but that reassurance can not be offer if panel be ask to adopt a process for which they be ill - equipped . that be not a criticism of those who will sit on the panel . I accept that , under the Bill as it stand , a panel may hear from and question any other person beyond the person seek the certificate and the relevant doctor , but as I have seek to address in amendment 47 , as thing stand those other person will in all likelihood not know about the panel ' s proceeding and therefore will not come forward of their own initiative with the evidence . the panel would have to go out and find they , and how exactly be it to do that ? how do the panel know who may have relevant evidence to give , and with what resource will it seek they out ? the position on what resource will be available more generally for the process under the Bill remain unclear , but the impact assessment suggest that panel will be expect to deal with two case a day . that suggest that they will spend somewhere between three and four hour on each . that be not much latitude for further investigation . amendment 48 propose that the commissioner should notify a designate authority — the Secretary of State can choose the appropriate one — of an application for a certificate . that authority would then supply to the panel an advocate with the responsibility to raise argument against the grant of the certificate , which the panel would not otherwise hear . I think that be important , because it would ensure that there be another participant in the panel process who could at least help the panel by prompt consideration of concern , reservation or ground for further inquiry before decision be make . my amendment 49 be about what happen once a panel have reach its conclusion . clause 16 provide for a person seek a certificate to be able to ask for reconsideration of a panel ' s refusal to grant one , but of course the Bill currently provide no equivalent right to challenge the decision to someone who believe that a panel should not have grant a certificate . anyone in that position would need to resort to judicial review , which be complex and expensive . may I gently suggest to the right hon . and learn Gentleman that he might be bring his remark to a close ? there be many other member who wish to contribute this afternoon . I certainly be , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be do my good , I hope as briefly as I can , to explain these technical amendment in a hugely important Bill , in a part of the Bill that the promoter have advocate for because she believe it be a safeguard . I think it be important , Madam Deputy Speaker , that we establish whether it be such a safeguard , and if it can be improve , how it can be improve — but I entirely take your stricture on board and I will come as quickly as I can to a conclusion . this be not an equality of arm point — I accept that these be not oppose party in the traditional sense — but it be really about the presentation of new evidence . presumably the advice to someone whose application for a certificate have be refuse and who have new evidence to present would be to reapply to the commissioner , but what be someone who have new evidence to challenge the basis for an exist certificate to do ? judicial review be no help . that be about the soundness of the decision already take , which will be assess use the evidence already present to the panel that take the original decision . the obvious scenario here be where someone come forward after the granting of a certificate , perhaps because they do not know of the previous proceeding , with pertinent evidence of coercion . there be currently no mechanism for that evidence to be consider . I be not suggest that people should simply be able to delay the process without ground ; my amendment 49 suggest that the commissioner will need to screen all such application to ensure there be an arguable case to be make . I table my amendment because I believe it be important , on Report , to accept that the Bill may become law and to make it the good law we can make it . this particular phase of the process can only be a safeguard if we enable the panel to do its job properly . the Bill ' s provision be currently defective in that respect and it be extraordinarily important that we make they effective in order for the panel to do its job properly . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not wish to be flippant or to test the patience of the House , but we have just hear an important speech from a former Attorney General on some key legal point . this be still a private Member ' s proposal . how can the promoter of the Bill , the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , respond to whether to accept amendment to her propose legislation if she be not in the Chamber to hear the argument ? be it not a discourtesy to the House and those who have spend some considerable time work on amendment , on both side of the argument , for she not to be here to hear what they be advocate ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order , but he will know that that be not a matter for the Chair . I remind the House that although there be no formal time limit , many member wish to contribute in this very important debate and it would be helpful if member could keep their remark to within the eight minute that be suggest . on Second Reading , I vote in favour of the Bill , partly because I believe in the principle of it — I believe the right to choice , and in the right not to choose — and partly because I believe that we need to have a way of check somebody ' s clear intention . at the moment , horrible death be happen and there be no such check in place , so I be keen to see how this House could come up with a system that , although it would not be perfect , would be well than the terrible status quo we have now . at that stage , we have two check by medical practitioner , and then a third layer : the involvement of a High Court judge . although I be pleased with a third layer , I be not convince that it be the right way to deal with the matter . I be therefore pleased that that the Bill Committee propose a panel of expert to make those check , and the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) have rightly address some of those point . for I , have that panel in place be very important , and it be our job to see how we can strengthen it , so I want to speak to amendment 78 and 79 . amendment 78 would improve this provision by ensure that there be a unanimous decision in favour of a certificate of eligibility — abstention would not apply . that be well than what be previously draft and be certainly well than a High Court judge . amendment 79 would require those reason to be set out in writing . there will be scrutiny of those decision and we do need to have the reason properly set out . I appreciate that all hon . member in the Chamber , and all those who have take part in this process , have approach it with the good of intention . it be not easy — it be difficult — and we have constituent give we example from both side . we be do the good we can to alleviate people ' s suffer — that , I hope , be our common intention across the House . like my hon . friend , I find the decision to vote for the Bill on Second read a difficult choice , as it be for many , but it be to improve the current situation and to have dignity in die . do he agree that we should not impose on the Bill significant restriction that would render it ineffective if pass ? my hon . friend be right to think about the impact of restriction . today we be all try , in our different way , to improve the Bill , whether we believe in it in principle or not . I believe that the amendment to which I be speak would improve the Bill . as we all think carefully about the different part of the Bill , we should ask ourselves this question : would it make thing well than the status quo ? I believe that it would . I believe that there would be few horrible , painful death . the amendment help in that direction . I remain a supporter of the Bill , and ask other hon . member to think carefully too . for reason of timeliness , I will speak only to amendment 101 , which relate to adult with Down syndrome or a learn disability , although the amendment be directly relevant to new clause 1 , as the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) speak about . amendment 101 would disallow medical practitioner from initiate a conversation about assist die with a person who have Down syndrome or a learn disability . I speak primarily from my experience , along with other , on the all - party parliamentary group on Down syndrome and what we have hear from member of that community : people with Down syndrome and their family , and professional specialise in the condition . many strong and deeply heartfelt argument have be put by colleague , and indeed to all of we by constituent in favour of the Bill , include by family in the most difficult circumstance to imagine — actually , they be sometimes unimaginable circumstance . nobody could question the conclusion they have come to individually as a result of their circumstance . equally deeply hold and heartfelt point be make to we by people from the other perspective , also inform by their sometimes unimaginable own or family circumstance . of the argument put against the Bill , I be particularly draw to those around coercion . however , it be important to remember that coercion be not entirely a black - and - white matter . at the sharp end , there be case where an individual will directly bring pressure to bear on another for their own end , but there be many gradation below that , and pressure can be feel differently by different people . it may be feel especially by people who worry they be a burden on their family , on caregiver , on the national health service , or indeed more broadly on society . once assist dying be an available option , over and above the question of pressure from other , I worry about the effect of pressure from oneself . the Bill stipulate in clause 36 that the Secretary of State will issue a code of practice to ensure that the practitioner establish that there be a " clear and settle intention " for the person to end their own life , include assess that that person have " capacity to make such a decision " . that will have material challenge of its own . however , with regard to amendment 101 , I be talk about the initiation , suggest or raise of the matter specifically with an individual who have a learn disability or Down syndrome . the critical point about my right hon . friend ' s amendment , and indeed about new clause 16 , be that they would put that on the face of the Bill . he be right to say that code of practice and statutory guidance can be of value , but it seem to I that what be on the face of the Bill will be of fundamental importance , particularly in respect of coercion . my right hon . friend be right , of course . when we in this House be tell that there will be secondary legislation , guidance or a code of practice , we can only ever take that on trust , and this subject be of such moment that what be on the face of the Bill be that much more important . give the scale of the decision that people could make as a result of this legislation , it be right that an additional layer of caution should be apply by legislator . obviously , it be important not to generalise — every single person be an individual — but it be the case that people with Down syndrome often exhibit distinct social characteristic , include great sociability , empathy , and a strong desire to please other and seek positive social feedback , while also be particularly sensitive to criticism or perceive failure , which can compound issue around communication and comprehension . we do not need to define what can result as coercion to worry about what might happen in that context . amendment 101 and new clause 1 be about initiate a conversation and ensure that there be additional safeguard , and I urge the House to apply caution that be commensurate with the gravity of the path that could be embark upon . I rise to speak against amendment 102 , 80 , 5 and 38 , and new clause 16 and 9 . in my varied NHS career , I have see all aspect of death and disease . as healthcare professional , we commit first to do no harm . as medicine advance at breakneck speed , we be able to preserve life far beyond what could have be think possible in the past . however , there have be many time when I have feel that preserve life can be harmful . life - prolong treatment do not always improve quality of life , and patient suffer pain and discomfort , as well as mental distress . friend and family have to watch their love one go through these difficult experience , and I believe that patient should have a choice to end their life with dignity when face with a terminal illness . the safeguard in the Bill have be significantly strengthen in Committee , so amendment seek far to delay the process be simply unnecessary . in the oral evidence give by multiple expert , include Professor Chris Whitty , it be argue that we must be mindful not to overcomplicate the process to the point that no one can access an assisted death . amendment 80 seek to impose an unnecessary restriction by require the terminal illness to cause " severe pain and discomfort that can not be reasonably relieve " by palliative treatment . however , the Bill already require that symptom can not be reasonably relieved , and it be important to remember that terminal illness be more than just pain alone . amendment 102 state that " remediable suicide risk factor " must be address before any preliminary discussion . again , that be already cover in the Bill , with multiple check on mental capacity and mental illness . Suicide risk be complex and fluid , and as I know from my own struggle , it be possible to feel suicidal but not want to die . this be another vague and unnecessary barrier without clear legal or clinical definition . new clause 9 and 16 and amendment 5 all seek to undermine multiple layer of assessment , independent oversight and professional accountability , where safeguard be already strong and multifaceted . amendment 38 call for patient to qualify only if they have not refuse further treatment or take life - shortening step . it be morally wrong to force anyone to accept medical treatment that they do not wish to have . the Bill be about choice and autonomy , and the amendment would undermine the freedom to make deeply personal decision about one ' s care . this be not a one - size - fit - all pathway , and there must always be a patient - centre approach . my constituent Mark share the story of his sister , who sadly die from a rare form of terminal cancer two year ago . despite receive the very good palliative care , her pain could not be relieve and she beg her relative to help she to end her life , which obviously they could not do . harjean ' s father suffer a long and painful death as his body give way to the point that he could not even swallow . that be not how he would have choose to end his day , and his family have to share his suffering , as there be no other option . the current system be clearly inadequate , unsafe , and lack any compassionate and dignified option for end - of - life patient . I do not consider assist die to be any alternative to end - of - life care , and I will continue to campaign for well funding and resource for palliative care hospice , as will many other member . the two must go hand in hand . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will keep go , because of time . other country that have implement an assist die law have in turn increase funding and access to palliative care significantly , ensure a fair and more equitable range of option for patient . I believe that the safeguard in the Bill be more than adequate , and it be important to remember that doctor and healthcare professional be constantly look out for consent , competence and possible coercion in medical and social care setting . rise — I be almost do , so I be go to keep go . around 20 people per day die in excruciating pain and discomfort in spite of the very good palliative care , and we as lawmaker owe it to those people and their family , and to the thousand more who will die in the meantime , to continue the debate towards reform . I will speak only briefly , as I speak in favour of the Bill on Second Reading in November , my name be on it , and I have long support the campaign to change the law , include those of dignity in Dying and Humanists UK , of which I declare I be a member and patron . since the vote on Second Reading , I have meet and listen to a range of group , professional and individual , mainly those who have concern and those who want to see further change make . in Brighton that have regularly include constituent at my surgery , as well as a group of leader of local faith group and charity who provide support to different vulnerable group , include disabled people . today we be debate about half of the more than 100 propose amendment , lead by several table by the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , who have set out so well how she put they together base on her own very detailed work with civil servant and her listening , include to opponent . I can not commend her work and that of the Committee more . the new amendment from the promoter of the Bill include welcome change to transparency rule and how the process and decision make be report and scrutinise . other mp have also table many carefully draft and clear proposal . on eligibility , I continue to support people with slowly progressive neurological disease , such as motor neurone disease , as reflect by my support for amendment 4 , which I have sign and which be argue for so well by the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) . I intend not to list lot of amendment , but to set out briefly the approach that I will take to those amendment be debate , before listen to the rest of the debate and then decide how to vote , because I believe we must end up with the strong , clear and fairest process for make decision , safeguard against abuse , scrutinise the use of the policy after it become law , and provide the very good and most appropriate help to people who want this choice at the end of their life . I aim to back strongly the amendment that demand great reporting and recording of decision make and that demand transparency , include financial transparency , demographic datum and other statistic from those who be supervise decision and provide the new service , include the new supervising commissioner . the ability to monitor the implementation of this policy , ensure it be work as intend and detect any problem immediately be really important to I . I will also back change in the process that ask for more training for those take part in decision and to ensure fair and effective communication throughout , include new language requirement however , I be not currently aim to support amendment that I think place undue , compulsory , additional burden , hurdle , intrusion or demand on the people apply for permission to make this choice beyond what be in the Bill currently . on the basis of what I have hear , the experience of many of my constituent and the statistic , the people ask for this choice will , by definition , be at the end of a horrible disease — often terminal cancer — which they will have fight , and fight with their doctor , for a long time . they will now be face their final month in a situation of potentially huge suffering over which they have no control and that they fear greatly . we must all remember that only die people be eligible . in the vast majority of these case , the person ' s eligibility , capacity and reason will be more than clear to the decision maker . I believe we must enable those case to be approve in a respectful , caring and compassionate way , and as swiftly as the current Bill process allow . in other case , where thing be less clear , I agree : many more question may need to be ask . I believe that the professional currently task in this rigorous process under the Bill will be very well place to judge when more information , consultation and investigation will be necessary . under the current rule , along with the amendment and new clause I support , they will also have to account very clearly for what they ask and what they decide under effective scrutiny . I can not , therefore , support propose change that would make every applicant subject to additional intrusive step and interrogation , with somebody appoint to argue against they , extra process or compulsory psychological investigation . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I be on my last paragraph . those measure be effectively barrier to help eligible people make their own choice for when and how to die at the end of all they have suffer . I truly believe we must not make the process of gain permission any hard or more traumatic than we need to . although I be listen hard to the argument make , quite a few of the amendment and new clause cross that line . these momentous decision about our death must be lead by compassion , and must not be make to seem like yet another battle for people who have already give their all to stay alive . I thank member for support amendment 14 and 38 in my name . I acknowledge that the promoter of the Bill , my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , have say that she be happy , as of this morning , to accept my amendment 14 . my hon . friend have also indicate that there might be a need to change some of the wording , but until I see the wording of the new amendment and can scrutinise it , I can not make an informed choice about accept that . in addition , I be tell this at only 9 . 30 be , on the Floor of the House . it be not discuss with I , and I be not sure whether the promoter have discuss it with Ministers . this very argument have be hash out in Committee , where many of we spend week and week scrutinise line by line . indeed , the promoter table her own amendment 181 in Committee to strengthen clause 2 . at that point , Ministers , outline their neutrality , say that the amendment table , for which many colleague have argue , be not , in the Government ' s opinion , workable . in the Government ' s opinion , what have now change ? have an assessment be make by my hon . friend or the Government that these amendment could now be accept ? what this speak to — I emphasise this to all member listen and to the public at home — be a fundamentally flawed process . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] this be not how we make legislation . I take my responsibility extremely seriously , as I be sure everybody in this House do . this be literally a matter of life and death . if the Bill pass without these safeguard , there be no come back from those decision . as my hon . friend know , have be on the Bill Committee with I , I have the same advice from minister : they disagree with the wording of some of my amendment , yet they be accept by the Bill ' s promoter and the Committee and be now in the wording of the Bill . the position of the promoter and the position put to this House will now be that those amendment be not in line with the Government ' s position . what be my hon . friend ' s view on the fact that we will be ask to support that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be the problem with this Bill , this process and what we be be tell . we be be give thing on the face of the Bill — I thank my hon . friend for her passionate contribution , but this be exactly how we make law . we take evidence and have discussion — [ interruption . ] order . may I respectfully remind hon . member that on Report we debate the amendment to the Bill , not the process of how law be make ? thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . my amendment 14 be very much about anorexia . it have be debate and hash out time and again . I have come to the House today and be tell , while sit in my seat , that my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley be minded to accept the amendment without any discussion . I do not know what risk assessment or other assessment the Government have make , so how can I speak to that amendment when I do not have those detail ? I can say that Chelsea Roff , an expert on anorexia , give evidence to the Committee . I can talk about how clinician from every single major charity for eat disorder have make it clear that if this Bill go through , it will not be fit for purpose and people will fall through that loophole . without the information in front of I , however , I can not speak to the amendment . will my hon . friend give way ? sorry , I will make some progress . will my hon . friend give way ? I will make some progress . I sincerely appreciate the guidance from you , Madam Deputy Speaker , from Mr Speaker and from all across this House — the Clerks have be really helpful . I come back to the amendment . in Oregon , in the States , 60 woman be give assist death . every single one of they — 100 % — be tell that they have the capacity . we have an issue in this country . some 11 case have go to the Court of Protection , and my understanding be that nine of they have be tell that they do not have the capacity , but doctor have be give permission not to continue to feed they . that be an issue for we ; there be an issue of capacity . there be a second issue in relation to amendment 38 , which I will speak to . even if my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley accept my first amendment in its entirety , word for word , we do not close the loophole with amendment 38 . what if we have somebody with diabete ? the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) speak very passionately about diabete . I know the experience , because I be gestationally diabetic on three occasion and dependent on insulin , and I also appreciate the risk of be a pre - diabetic . if somebody decide not to take insulin and that they do not want to have dialysis , they would bring themselves within the scope of this Bill as it be write . that be a fact . contrary to the many people who have be on the radio and in other place say , " the Bill exclude people ' s mental health " , this Bill do not , as it be write , say that mental health be exclude . [ hon . member : " it do ! " ] it do not . will my hon . friend give way ? no , I will make progress . I be very conscious that lot of colleague be here . I remember that we be all sit here in November the first time that we debate this Bill ; more than 100 member do not get to speak in that debate , and many people might not get to speak today . I feel really dishearten . as other member who be on the Committee have point out , we have spend so much time rehash these argument . there be opportunity to fix this Bill rather than I and other have to put down amendment , take up time and not give those who would otherwise have speak the opportunity to speak . to come back to my amendment — I have completely lose track of time , and I be sure that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will be clear that I need to start finish off , so I will come to a conclusion . I have speak to parent . I have speak to the parent of a girl who have T1DE , which be diabete with complexity of anorexia . they come to Parliament and they say that when their daughter want to go to dignita , the law that help they be the one that mean that it would have be illegal . that be the law we be try to change today . if the safeguard in the Bill fail even once , it will be a young woman like Jessica who die . it will be parent like Lesley and Neal who lose a child . that be a terrible tragedy that no family should ever have to endure and no one in this House will be able to say truthfully that we do not know or do not see that come . that be not compassion ; it be abandonment . I will not be complicit in that and I hope the House will not be either . that be why we must act now . amendment 14 and 38 each would close a different and dangerous loophole . one without the other be not enough . if we be serious about protect vulnerable people , this House must support both amendment . order . member will be aware that there be still many who wish to contribute to the debate . may I ask that contribution be keep to five minute ? I be grateful to you for that guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be also grateful to the promoter of the Bill , the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , for put I on the Bill Committee where , in my view , we do some excellent work . although we have hear an awful lot of claim about the process , I think anybody objective who read the Bill that be now be report to the House will recognise that it be a strong piece of work that be measure and seek to strike a balance in a difficult area of complexity , humanity , compassion and morality . before I discuss some of the amendment , I want to bring the House back to what we be try to deal with : a set of people who have be tell that their struggle with disease be over , that they be head towards an inevitable death and that there be nothing more that medical science can do for they . what we be try to do be to give they the chance to face death on their own term . that be the simple mission that the House have be set . the second thing I want member to contemplate as they look at this slew of amendment be that although it be easy to look at each amendment individually and see its merit or demerit , we must bear in mind the machine we be build as a whole , and the fact that we be put those people through this process at a time when they be face the end of that struggle . they be think about what the nature of their death will be like and they be talk to their friend and family , put their affair in order , and be concern about when that awful day be go to come . we have to have some compassion in the process as well as compassion in the purpose . when member consider some of the amendment I will highlight , I ask they please to keep in mind that we will have to put these people through a possible two - month process at a moment when their time be severely limited , very often to less than six month . for example , new clause 7 and amendment 50 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , would restrict the number of patient that doctor can deal with in any 12 - month period . that will severely restrict access and may mean that patient who be partway through the process have to change suddenly because their doctor be time limited , push they out , notwithstanding the multiple safeguard we already have in the process . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) give an interesting speech about amendment 47 . again , in that amendment , he would be create another step , another delay and another set of problem for the die person to overcome or issue for they to address . in his amendment — I be sure he be a much well lawyer than I — I find it odd that he would effectively be create an inexhaustive list of individual who could be call upon in any circumstance who might be " properly interested " in the welfare of that individual . to I , the person who should be the most interested in their future be the person themselves . any step we take that cut across their privacy , their autonomy and the alacrity with which they can seek this solution to their impending or perceive agony seem a step too far . I do not understand how , practically , the commission be suppose to ascertain who those individual be — be they neighbour , friend or just family ? what be the definition of family ? we need to put that contemplation and how they want to handle their death squarely in the hand of the die person . the right hon . Member mention that the person be autonomous and should be protect from inquiry about they , but what if they be not autonomous because they be be coercively control by a partner ? what if that partner have prevent they from reach out to their family to let they know that they be go to take an assisted death ? would it not be a great safeguard to ensure that the panel and all the doctor around they have ascertain that the family have be tell ? the hon . Lady make a good point , and it be a compelling point make in Committee and be certainly one that we recognise . that be why the amendment on training that she table in Committee be adopt — specifically to ensure that everybody involve in the process be sensitise to detect those issue and to make clear that any doctor in the process , and indeed the panel , might want to know why family be not be inform . that be specifically why a social worker be put on the panel : to understand the psychosocial environment in which the person be take that decision . fundamentally , in the end , if I be face my death in a matter of week and decide in my capacity that I do not want to inform my family , that be my choice . that be my decision . I may have to explain my reason to the doctor , but — order . on that point , I remind member that we be very short of time . I be grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I will be swift . that be my choice , and this Bill be root in the need to give autonomy to those face death who have capacity . we should take care to tread carefully upon that right . on the two amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , new clause 16 say that somebody can not be " substantially motivated " by certain consideration . I do not really understand what " substantially motivated " be mean to mean . to I , this misunderstand the complexity of what it must be like to be tell that you be die . the thing that might run through your head — the affair you might have to deal with , the news you have to break to your family , the impact it will have on your small child — form a cocktail of motivation . but the one thing I have learn over the last 10 year from campaign for and spend lot of time with die and bereaved people be that towards the end of their life , they have absolute clarity about what they want , because it become clear to they towards the end what their death will be like . at the very least , they want to have this card in their back pocket to play if they require it . remember : these be people who be face death , who be struggle with death , and we have to give they the power to advance over it . will the right hon . member give way ? sorry , but I be conscious of time . finally , amendment ( a ) to new clause 10 , which we might divide on this afternoon , be difficult . we debate a similar amendment in Committee . as sponsor of the Bill , we be clear that there should be a conscientious objection clause to allow individual to opt out , and that be strengthen by new clause 10 . but allow an employer — any employer — to say that any employee in their employment can not participate if that be what they decide seem to I a step too far , and it could prove to have unintended consequence . first , the board of every healthcare trust in the country will become a battle for control between those who oppose and those who do not . as my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) say , people may suddenly find that they have to uproot themselves , after year of live in a care home , and relocate to get the kind of death that they want . in effect , the amendment prioritise the right of somebody who be provide accommodation over the right of the dying . as I say on Second Reading , in my view , as they face their end , we should prioritise the right of the dying . it would be unprecedented to put a formal time limit on speech . please can member listen to the stricture that we be very short on time ? I call Lizzi Collinge . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I have intend to speak about new clause 1 and 10 , but I will restrict myself to new clause 1 for the sake of time . new clause 1 say : " no health professional shall raise assist dying … unless that person have first raise it . " if the patient do not mention the issue and specifically ask for it , the doctor would be entirely prohibit from even mention it . that be problematic for many reason . it go against good medical practice , and be actively oppose by the British Medical Association . for I , the new clause would undermine the hard - win right of people to be fully informed of their medical option , and would make the application of the Bill unfair and unequal , to the detriment of marginalised people in particular . just this week , the Health and Social Care Committee hear from vulnerable service - user who talk about white coat syndrome — that people be more likely to be push into option when give they by medical professional . that be the concern behind the amendment . I do not know how I will vote on the Bill , but I be minded to support the amendment because of what I have hear from people from vulnerable community . order . intervention also need to be brief . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I will expand on this , but that be exactly why good medical practice require all option to be on the table . patient should not be influence by the opinion , whether philosophical or medical , of a doctor ; they should be able to give full and informed consent . I believe that new clause 1 would chill those discussion , and limit the option of an assist death to those already in the know , those who be the most medically literate , and those who be often the least marginalise in society . it would result in unequal access to a legal process , and fly in the face of good medical practice , which have move away from the paternalism that harm patient and take away their individual control . after many year of fighting , mainly by woman and marginalise community , it be now establish that good healthcare practice mean patient have full information to make their own decision . will my hon . friend give way ? I be mindful of time , so I will continue . why , then , would we now choose , as a House , to hide from patient information about their option ? for so many year , people have be put through that . informed consent to treatment , include end of life care , be inform only when it include all option . there be also the practical element of what would count as a patient raise it first . would they have to make a specific statement ? would they have to use specific language ? it would create a legal and medical minefield for doctor and patient . will my hon . friend give way ? I be very mindful of time , so I will finish with this point . colleague may wish to look at the NHS constitution , which say : " you have the right to be involve in plan and make decision about your health and care with your care provider or provider , include your end of life care , and to be give information and support to enable you to do this . " that can be the case only if people be give the full information . all people should have access to full information on matter of care . to do otherwise be to deny people their decision — it be paternalistic , and we should move away from that model . People have fight so hard for that to happen . we have a chance today , colleague , to ensure that the legislation be the good it can be . it have be a pleasure to listen to the contribution of colleague across the Chamber . I be minded to support the amend Bill on Third Reading , because the current situation for terminally ill people , with no safeguard , no protection and no choice , be absolutely unsupportable . I rise to speak to amendment 18 , 30 , 31 , 17 and 32 , which stand in my name . I will start with amendment 18 . many moral argument on the need for the Bill have be propose both inside and outside this place . some of those argument have address the desire for great control at the end of life , but the vast majority have focus on the prevention of irreversible suffering . the principle of bodily autonomy — which I strongly support in the context of full decision - make capacity , with certain important caveat — be use to justify the right that the Bill will grant . however , let we put aside the debate surround the Bill and focus on the text of the clause , which be the task that we face on Report . the provision be silent on suffering , silent on control and silent on all but a terminal illness with a prognosis of few than six month . if the principle be that we must prevent irreversible suffering , all those suffering irreversibly should be able to seek physician - assist suicide . if the principle be that we should give people control — another level of expression of bodily autonomy — all adult who truly and freely consent with full decision - make capacity should be able to seek physician - assist suicide . if those principle be circumscribe to an arbitrary definition of " terminal illness " , the inexorable conclusion must be that those patient ' suffering or autonomy be more important than those of other , or that their life have less value . we have see that position subtly import into this debate . when request an assisted death be not frame as suicide because some perceive it as understandable , the underlying argument be , " if you ' re terminally ill , of course you want to die — that ' s understandable . " we must ensure that we do not , by accident or otherwise , enshrine in our statute book value judgment on the worth of the life of the terminally ill or on the protection that they should enjoy like everyone else . I table amendment 18 to expand the scope of the Bill as much as I can to reduce the discrimination inherent within it . the maximum I could do be to remove the six - month restriction , but I wish the amendment could go far . I know that some member will wince at this provision , but I ask they to ask themselves what the principle and value in the Bill be , how they be be apply and whether they be be apply equally . I believe that the Bill as draft be incoherent and discriminatory . my amendment would introduce some moral clarity to the Bill . if we do not do so , the court will . I turn to amendment 30 and 31 . if we be to rely on the principle of autonomy to authorise physician - assist suicide for terminal illness , the express choice must be true and free . autonomy need help , though . a true and free choice need to be inform ; a true and free choice can not be make under coercion ; a true and free choice require decision - make capacity . I believe that , if we be to rely on the principle of autonomy for the most grave of decision , there need to actually be a choice . in the absence of relevant and available palliative care option , where be the choice ? how can we rely on autonomy in the absence of choice ? the prospect of people choose physician - assist suicide not because it meet their need , but because their need be unmet owe to a failure in the provision of palliative care , be a moral outrage . my amendment 30 and 31 would ensure that that do not happen . will my hon . friend give way ? I be sorry but I really can not , give the time restriction . amendment 17 pertain to the test of decision - make capacity . in English and Welsh law , we use the Mental Capacity Act 2005 to define capacity , and I believe it be right that the functional test of capacity be use in this Bill . we have common law test of capacity in some circumstance , which arise before we have the Mental Capacity Act . however , the decision to end one ' s own life be not permit in the early case law lead up to that Act . there be no jurisprudence background or guidance . these capacity test have not be do before . this test need a bit more of a framework of support . amendment 17 lay out the minimum information that need to be understand as part of the functional test of capacity . critically , that would include information about the current treatment option , about do nothing and about proceed under this legislation . it would make clear that physician - assist suicide be not a medical treatment , but a personal choice about life and death . without amendment 17 , this Bill will fundamentally undermine the doctor - patient relationship . doctor do not prescribe death , and this Bill must make that clear . I turn finally to my amendment 32 . there have be some discussion about the inadequacy of the decision - make capacity test as gatekeeper . in effect , there may be circumstance in which , despite have capacity , the person be otherwise recognise as vulnerable . that be how our court operate . the impact of depression or personality disorder on decision - make capacity can be subtle and elusive . I know , as I use to be a consultant liaison psychiatrist and do research in the area of decision - make capacity . this be tricky stuff to do , especially in the context of a request for an intervention , rather than a refusal . we should have train psychiatrist at an early stage assess capacity . they be expert at pick up these subtle cue and all the other stuff that be go on . a request for physician - assist suicide should not be take in isolation , and that need to be understand and support . we need someone who know how to use the Mental Health Act , because if a doctor be do the assessment , and they have a patient in front of they with a mental disorder , express a desire to end their life , they need to make sure that that patient get the right and appropriate treatment . that may well be use the Mental Health Act . we need to make sure that this happen ; I hope it would happen as part of the process as usual , but there be no safeguard in the Bill to make sure that it do . psychiatrist turn up on the panel at the end be not good enough ; they need to be there from the start . finally , there be broad issue about the interaction with protection to save life , article 2 , and a doctor ' s duty . I will cover those in the debate on the second grouping , along with the incredible importance of the Bill ' s interaction with the suicide prevention strategy . I rise to speak to amendment 24 in my name , and I will start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for invite I to be a member of the Bill Committee . I accept the principle that somebody give the devastating news that they have six month leave to live should be able to choose the moment that they die , with their love one around they , but this be not a vote on the principle . we be not be ask to make an arbitrary yes or no choice , for we be legislator , and my experience on the Bill Committee tell I that this Bill , as write , still require additional safeguard to address the concern of so many people in this country . for I , it be death , and my thought and concern about what happen when I die , that draw I to my conclusion on this matter . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because of time constraint ; I be sorry . like a small number of other member in this House , I know the daily concern of be a parent of a child with complex disability , include a learn disability . that concern live with you every single day of your life : that concern about what will happen to your child when you be go — about who will assist your child , because of the help they require due to their level of mental capacity and the difficulty they have communicate and interpret information . the concern that haunt I every single day be , " who will make , and how will they make , those decision to support my daughter when my wife and I be go ? " that concern , share by thousand of other , lead I to the conclusion that the Mental Capacity Act 2005 be not write for this scenario . the parent of someone with a learn disability become accustomed to support they in their decision making . we understand their sight and communication difficulty , and the language need to help they make a decision . the Mental Capacity Act rightly have a low bar to allow individual to live a fulfil life , because we would not want individual to have their capacity assess to purchase a coffee or withdraw money from the bank . I raise countless time in Committee — it be never challenge ; in fact , it be accept in some exchange — that it would absolutely be possible for the following scenario to occur . an adult with a learning disability discover that they have less than six month to live . they have a level of mental capacity that allow they to make many decision in life . they have enough capacity to understand that they could be a burden on their elderly parent . their elderly parent might take the view that their son or daughter require support to make the most complex decision , yet because their son or daughter be assume to have capacity under the first principle of the Mental Capacity Act , they could go through the entirety of this process — and the first time that the parent be aware of it would be when they be inform that their child have be assist to die . for the same reason , I support amendment 8 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , and amendment 10 and 33 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , which relate to family member ' awareness of the process . the second principle of the Mental Capacity Act be : " a person be not to be treat as unable to make a decision unless all practicable step to help he to do so have be take without success . " it be accept in Committee that doctor would have to assist individual in this scenario to make the decision about an assisted death . from my live experience , I would query how some aspect of the Mental Capacity Act be be carry out , give that I often have to deal with professional who deem that my daughter have less or more capacity than she actually do . I have accept that she would not have enough capacity to go through the process , but the Bill Committee hear from Mencap in oral evidence that the vast majority of people with a learn disability in this country be not in the same position and could apply for an assist death . the Bill Committee hear from many people . Dr Rachel Clarke raise her concern about capacity . Baroness Falkner , give evidence on behalf of the Equality and Human Rights Commission , say that " capacity be a very serious consideration in our concern . " – – [ Official Report , Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Public Bill Committee , 29 January 2025 ; c . 178 , Q232 . ] Dr Jamilla Hussain give evidence about one palliative care team deeming that someone have capacity , while another palliative care team deem that they do not . we hear from Professor Gareth Owen , from Dr Annabel Price and from Dan Scorer of Mencap , who all raise concern . in the last week , the Law Society have say that Parliament should fully consider how the Mental Capacity Act would operate under the Bill before any legislation be pass . the Royal College of Psychiatrists have say that although it be neutral on the issue , it oppose the Bill as it stand — particularly the mental capacity aspect , because , as it be write , it do not correlate with the Mental Health Act . over the last few day , the Royal College of Physicians have also come out in support of that position . over the last six month , I have hear a lot about choice , compassion and dignity , but what about choice , compassion and dignity for the people I have describe ? I fundamentally believe that it be my job , and the job of all of we , to protect the most vulnerable — but the Bill , as it stand , fail to do that . I have every sympathy with somebody at the end of their life , as I have say ; I believe that they should have the right to go on their own term , at their own time . but be there sufficient safeguard to ensure — in response to those who have link to the press and Parliament to make their voice hear — that we fully consider every scenario and safeguard those who do not have those link and who do not have a voice ? if that choice come at the price of one person , in a borderline capacity decision , be presume to have capacity , that will be one death too many . my view be that it be not a price worth pay to allow other to have that choice . for that reason , I implore colleague to support my amendment 24 . rise — order . I urge the few remain member who will get in to keep their remark brief , please . as I think about today ' s debate , I ask myself , " what more can I say than I say in the previous debate ? " yet there be much more , because as the Bill make progress through Committee , its intention be expose over and over again . commitment , safeguard and kind word champion in this place have be set aside . on Second Reading , we be tell that the Committee consider the Bill would be balanced and representative , yet its make - up do not reflect that intention : 55 % of mp vote for the Bill on Second Reading , but 61 % of the Committee support it . the mask have slip time and again . one of the big blow to the Bill , which the public listening today need to know about , relate to the need for approval via High Court judge . on Second Reading , that be labour as the strong safeguard , but that safeguard have be remove at a stroke . what be now be legislate for be a panel of psychiatrist — and a voluntary panel , at that . impartial judge have be replace by a voluntary panel , which could well be make up of enthusiast for assist dying , and the Royal College of Psychiatrists have now say that there be not even sufficient psychiatrist for such panel . I want to be absolutely clear : this Bill be immoral . if it be pass at a future date , it will create a publicly fund , gold - plate assist suicide service . that mean that the state will have the ability to give a legal drug to end a life . it be immoral , and it go against my strong christian faith , and that of many of my constituent in Upper Bann and people across the United Kingdom . although I note that the intention behind new clause 10 be to increase the conscience protection in the Bill for the many healthcare professional who will wish to play no part in assist the premature death of a patient , it do not go nearly far enough in uphold the long - stand commitment to freedom of conscience in our country . member across the House have regularly remark that this be a conscience vote for many party and that we must respect one another ' s view , but if we be committed to allow conscience in this place , we must also protect it outside this House . I be deeply concerned that new clause 10 , which the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) have portray as a safeguard , do not replace or disapply amendment 341 , pass in Committee , which , while remove the duty of referral for healthcare professional , still require they to point people in the direction of where they can " obtain " information and have a " preliminary discussion " about assist suicide . indeed , the new clause not only do not repeal that requirement ; it reinforce it . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will not give way because of time . the new clause would not affect any duty relate to a requirement to provide information . that concern over conscience be raise early this week by the Royal College of Psychiatrists in its press release , which announce its opposition to the Bill and set out its concern that clinician be still require to signpost patient to information on assist suicide . it note : " for some psychiatrist who wish to conscientiously object , this would constitute be involve " in the assist suicide process . new clause 10 will not allay such concern . when those represent clinician express such concern , we ought to listen to they — listen to the professional . I encourage member to listen to the royal college and the 250 GPs oppose to the Bill . turn to amendment 101 , I have a word for our Down ' s syndrome community . in a statement publish on 9 May , the Down ' s Syndrome Research Foundation say : " we be deeply concerned about the risk of coercion and undue influence . in particular , people with down ' s syndrome and intellectual disability be at significant risk of coercion and undue influence , in part because of their need to trust and rely upon caregiver and medical professional . " I can not comprehend why the hon . member for Spen Valley decline to accept an amendment in Committee that would have provide explicit protection for people with down ' s syndrome . again , that highlight the flaw and the risk of coercion . the reality be that vulnerable people who be more prone to coercion — for example , people with learn difficulty or a history of depression — have not be explicitly protect in the Bill . this Bill be not safe and can not be fix . it be weak than it be before the Committee begin , and I encourage all concerned member to recognise that it be flawed and that no amendment or tighten up will ever make it right to legislate to end one ' s life with a legal drug . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . many people have put in to speak today , and we appreciate the huge challenge to you , chair this debate , and for the Speaker ' s Office . it be normal for private member ' Bills that the debate continue in an orderly and proper fashion so that everyone can have their say . we appreciate that that be much more challenging in these circumstance , but we have hear many time that we be run out of time , member be not take intervention because of concern about time , and the informal time limit have drop to five minute . I be aware that the Front Benchers still need to speak . it be in the power of the Chair , of course , to refuse any suggestion of a closure motion . I would like to ask you whether there be any thinking go on about whether this debate can continue . many of those who have table amendment have not yet be call to speak , and I , for one , would like to hear their point of view . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . she would not wish I to anticipate any decision on a closure motion at the current time , I hope . she make a valid point that many member who wish to speak this afternoon will be disappoint , but she will also know that there will be further debate on the second group of amendment . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my concern be that this be the last debate on these amendment . it be in the control of the Chair whether to grant a vote on a closure motion . I simply make that point , as I be sure you hear , Madam Deputy Speaker . I reassure the hon . Lady that I have hear her point . I repeat that I will not make a pre - decision on any closure motion that have not yet be move . I will be very quick , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I be aware of the need to fit in as many people as possible . I will address a few issue on the assessment of capacity under new clause 9 . one key point about assess capacity as a doctor be that in most case it be very clear cut : someone either have capacity or they do not . that be quite easy and quick to establish . with a very small number of patient , it be more difficult . by amendment to the Bill make in Committee , we must now refer such a person to a consultant psychiatrist for an assessment by a specialist . they be then in the good position to assess those very difficult point of capacity . that very much strengthen the Bill . I will speak very briefly to new clause 1 . as doctor , we must , under our ethical obligation , give option to patient . if we be absolutely forbidden to do that — new clause 1 would make it a crime , so we could be convict for do so — that totally wreck the doctor - patient relationship . it be unprecedented and unworkable . rise — I be sorry , I can not give way . I be just go to go through these point very quickly . that be why the BMA be against new clause 1 . there be no duty for doctor to raise the issue , but there should not be any ban on they do so . as I have point out , the so - call gag clause be introduce in Victoria as part of the legislation . however , after five year that have now be remove by an independent review , because it cause confusion and it harm patient care . I urge colleague to vote against new clause 1 . let we respect the patient ' s right to information , not restrict it . let we ensure that no patient be leave suffer simply because they do not know what to ask , and that no doctor be punish for try to help . I thank my hon . friend for give way . on that point , I have particular concern — order . may I just clarify whether the hon . Gentleman be give way ? yes , I be happy to give way . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . on that point , do my hon . friend agree with my concern about new clause 2 , which , although genuinely mean and intend , be in danger of be read , together with new clause 1 , to indicate that it should not be discuss with child at all , even if they raise it first , because of the difference between the wording of the two clause ? any restriction around the doctor - patient relationship will harm patient , so I agree with my hon . friend . I rise to speak in support of amendment 87 , which stand in my name , and in support of various amendment table by other member and also sign by I . prior to this legislation be lay before the House , I have not hold strong feeling about the issue of assist dying . I listen carefully to the argument on both side , include those of the many constituent who write to I on the issue , before decide to vote against the Bill on Second Reading . I make my mind up very late in the day . I continue to be appreciative and respectful of the reason why people be in favour , but , for I , the fundamental question be whether we be put vulnerable people at risk by pass this legislation . I resolve that , on balance , we be . the lead Member , the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , be keen to reflect the balance of opinion across the House , as well as within party , in the make - up of the Bill Committee , and I be happy to volunteer as the sole Liberal Democrat " no " voter , as a service to my party and to the House . it be a privilege to serve on the Committee , and I wish to put on the record my admiration and respect to all member , Ministers , Chairs and House staff who serve alongside I , and my thank to the many witness who give oral and write evidence on which we come to rely . I regret to say , however , that my experience in Committee have only harden my opposition to the Bill . my opposition be not root in a fundamental objection to the principle of assist dying , but in the approach take to frame the legislation . amendment 87 seek to tighten up the arrangement around the first declaration , to rule out the possibility of " doctor shopping " . in oral evidence we hear from the chief medical officer , Professor Sir Chris Whitty , that a diagnosis of terminal illness and a prognosis of life expectancy can not always be make with a high degree of accuracy and that a degree of professional judgment be require on behalf of the co - ordinating doctor , which can result in difference of diagnosis and prognosis . that be back up by the Royal College of Physicians this week , whose spokesperson be quote in the Times say that it be " extremely hard to tell " if somebody have only six month leave to live . my amendment seek to establish whether the patient have already seek and be refuse permission to seek an assisted death so that the co - ordinating doctor can consider the reason for the first refusal and whether the patient ' s circumstance have materially change since that time . will the hon . member give way ? I will not ; I be sorry . the amendment would help to inform the clinical judgment that will need to be make in each individual case and discourage patient from apply to multiple doctor for an assessment . I be proud to support amendment 24 , table by the hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) , which would disapply the presumption in the Mental Capacity Act 2005 that a person have capacity unless the opposite be establish . there be a great deal of debate in Committee about the efficacy of the Mental Capacity Act and whether its provision be sufficient to establish an individual ' s capacity to make an informed decision about whether to seek an assisted death . the hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford speak compellingly in Committee about his experience of how the Act be not always apply effectively . I be glad that the whole House have have an opportunity to hear he today . the Royal College of Psychiatrists cite the insufficiency of the Mental Capacity Act as one of its nine reason for oppose the Bill early in the week . it say : " the Mental Capacity Act be create to safeguard and support people who do not have the capacity to make decision about their care or treatment or matter like finance . should the Bill become law in England and Wales , implication for both the Mental Capacity Act and Mental Health Act need to be consider . " I also support new clause 1 and 2 , table by the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , which would prohibit health professional from raise the subject of assist die with a patient . it be my personal belief that people ' s right to pain relief and palliative care towards a natural end should be prioritise above an assist die pathway , and that that should be make available only as the result of a specific request . it be particularly important that young people under the age of 18 should not be think about assist dying as an alternative to continue treatment or palliative care . I be disappoint that during Committee my propose amendment to safeguard people suffer from eat disorder be reject . eat disorder be primarily a mental health condition but have an obvious physical impact , and there be a severe risk that the physical impact of an eat disorder can be diagnose as a terminal illness , when in fact eat disorder be always treatable . we can not allow vulnerable sufferer from eat disorder to elect for an assisted death when there remain the possibility of a full recovery and the chance of a happy and fulfilling future . that be why I support amendment 14 , in the name of the hon . member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) , who be such an articulate member of the Bill Committee . I be glad to hear that the lead Member , the hon . member for Spen Valley , will adopt that amendment ; I look forward to see the further drafting . I also support amendment 16 , table by the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . I welcome the lead Member ' s new clause 10 , which extend the right to refuse to participate in assist die to any person , but it be important also to extend that right to organisation such as hospice and care home . assisted die undermine those institution ' mission and purpose , and they should have the right to refuse to provide it on their premise if they do not wish to participate in it . finally , I will speak in favour of amendment 22 , table by the name of the hon . member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) . there be insufficient provision in the legislation to identify and seek to ameliorate mental health condition or other factor that may lead people to seek a premature end to their life , which they would not seek if those factor be address . every time a person seek to end their life prematurely be deeply regrettable , and we have a duty to explore whether preventable factor could be address before a request for assist dying be grant . as have be the case throughout the Bill ' s consideration , his Majesty ' s opposition have not take a position on the principle of the Bill , and nor do we take a position on any of the amendment before the House . it be not for I to justify or argue against particular amendment . the argument for and against have be well ventilate by hon . member today . as we might expect — I know this from my own email inbox — many constituent be considerably more interested in our proceeding than might ordinarily be the case for a Bill ' s Report . it might also be the case that there be not a complete understanding of the nature of today ' s proceeding , so I hope that I might usefully reiterate what we be and be not do . I then want to make some remark focus on the public and campaigner , about how they should reflect carefully on their own obligation to respect the sincerity and freedom of choice of member . I have come to consider that issue to be important , give some public intervention by high - profile campaigner , experience with my own constituent and experience that I know other hon . member have have when they have be lobby on the topic and on the way in which they will be vote today . on our proceeding , it need to be say that some member of the public will have assume that the matter of assist dying have be settle on the back of the widespread reporting of the vote on Second Reading . it be not always clear in all the coverage that the vote on Second Reading be essentially on the principle of assist dying , and that the form the legislation might take could still change or potentially it may not even be pass at all . the size of the majority secure by those in favour have lead some commentator to claim that it will definitely be pass in some form . that be certainly understandable , but we should not take that outcome for grant , not least because that would be a disservice to the very important work of the Committee over recent month and what may happen on Report , all of which could change Members ' decision in both direction . so that the public understand , let I set out that since the Bill be vote for on Second Reading , a small number of mp have go through it in considerable detail . I be sure that each and every one of the Committee member will have feel the weight of responsibility when consider such a sensitive and important matter . they spend many long hour consider and debate exactly how assist dying should work in practice . I know the whole House will join I in thank they for their effort . the public should understand that today , similarly , all mp collectively will be decide what further change , if any , should be make , but we be not vote on whether we will , in fact , introduce assisted dying . some of the public think that today be another matter of " yes or no " , but it be not . instead , we be begin the process of decide the final form in which assist dying will be put before the House and potentially pass into law . the Committee consider over 500 amendment to the Bill during line - by - line scrutiny , and approximately one third be agree to . those two number alone — the number of amendment make and reject — indicate how detailed and challenging be the process face the whole House . we can not escape the very high level of contention to each and every aspect of the Bill — even whether we should refer to " assisted dying " or " assist suicide " have be subject to debate . as much as it might be of wide interest to the public , give its great visibility now that the Bill be again be debate on the Floor of the House , as Mr Speaker indicate at the start of the debate , now be not the time to go into all the change that have be make . those interested can refer to the helpful briefing note produce by the House of Commons Library . even with the very many change make to the Bill in Committee , today we have be debate further change . we have focus on the amendment relate to the obligation , duty and protection for medical practitioner , hospice and care home . the shadow Minister say that we be debate those amendment today , but we have not actually be able to hear from all those who have table those amendment . nine Members who have table amendment have not be call to speak , so how can we call this a debate when we have not even hear why they be propose their amendment in the first place ? I will make some remark about the process . the time allocate today be a matter for the Chair and it would not be appropriate for I to comment , but I accept and understand the concern raise by the hon . Lady and other hon . member . today we have also look at the procedure for receive assistance , include safeguard and protection , and issue relate to eligibility and mental capacity . as in Committee , some of the propose amendment would make significant change . I want to comment on the correspondence from the relevant minister regard the amendment . their letter to member quite properly explain that those amendment lay by the Bill ' s promoter , the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , be consider workable by the Government , but the same could not be say about other amendment . it be important that the Minister emphasise , in his closing remark , that that should not be read to mean that those amendment be not workable , which a superficial reading of the letter might imply ; it just mean that the Government have not give a view . I have sympathy with the concern raise by the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) about the challenge for member seek to lay amendment without Government support . while all the normal convention may have be follow , this be not a normal Bill , because of its significance and potential impact . rise — my hon . friend will remember that in the last Parliament we bring in the National Security Act 2023 , which introduce huge control on the nature of an individual ' s liberty . the legislation pass through the House over a period of two year and require an entire Department to prepare it . there be consideration with the judiciary , foreign government and other service , include the police . the Bill before we allow the state to kill someone . do he feel that this legislation be therefore somewhat more constrained than other legislation that would normally have be allow to pass ? and yes , it be correct to say that it allow the state — an actor on behalf of the state , at the request of an individual — to take a life . in the english language , that be call kill . as I say , I recognise that the Bill be of great significance than a typical private Member ' s Bill , but it have be deliver through the normal procedure of the House , and it be for the House as a whole to make those change . will my hon . friend give way ? rise — not on that point . we may wish to reflect on how we might change our approach to Bills like this one in the future , give the significant dissatisfaction that have be express with the manner in which it have be consider , even though it have be do in the ordinary way . but we be where we be . as on Second Reading , this debate have be a balance exercise . the promoter of the Bill and other have appropriately remind we all of the very difficult and tragic experience face by the terminally ill and their family , but I respectfully say to the hon . member for Spen Valley that we should be cautious in say that opponent of the Bill be happy with the status quo , and I know that she would not have mean to suggest that . I be one of those people who be against the Bill , not in principle but for the reason set out brilliantly by many articulate Labour Members . when my constituent ask what I think about this , I have no way of tell they ; there be no way for I to get into the nuance of my position on it , because there have be no time to have a proper debate , and so many member will now be unable to say a single thing about this totally transformative Bill . my hon . friend have add his concern to those of other about the manner in which the debate have be conduct , but I reiterate that this have be do in the ordinary manner in term of the Speaker ' s discretion and the Standing Orders of the House . opponent of the Bill be concerned that it will lead to a different set of unacceptable circumstance for different people ; it be not that they be happy with how thing be at the moment . all mp have talk about people they care deeply about and how to help they . whether they refer to disabled people , young people or the terminally ill , mp have be speak out in support of or against amendment , out of concern and compassion . I may be tempt fate in say that we might find consensus on advertising restriction , but outside of that , member have undoubtedly express a variety of strong view on other ' amendment . it may be that member vote consistently in line with whether they be originally for or against assisted dying , but other member who be supportive of the Bill in principle be vote for restrictive amendment because they think that they be necessary . that be because this be a complex moral , legal and societal matter . I understand that member be consider their vote with a degree of uncertainty . there should be no shame at all in member ' admit that they will be daunt by the sheer number of potential change to the Bill , not to mention the decision from the Speaker on those we be go to vote on or the challenge of decide how to vote on each of they , either today or on a future day . will my hon . friend give way ? no , I need to make progress . they will be daunt not least because , although we have international example , we be consider a novel practice in this country in our particular circumstance . member who be generally supportive or oppose in principle may choose to abstain on a number of amendment on which they feel that they be unable to give a definitive view and be content to vote on the final outcome on Third Reading . that would be understandable . I know that member have consider how they will vote very carefully , and that they will continue to do so , by take into account their view and experience , as well as those of their constituent , other member whom they respect , and expert and campaign organisation . we will all be directly accountable to our constituent at the next election for all our vote throughout this Parliament . that bring I to the remark that I say I would like to finish with on the responsibility of the public and campaigner towards mps as they consider our vote . as we be first and foremost public servant , the focus be quite rightly usually almost entirely on the responsibility of mps to the public , but as with all meaningful relationship , this be , and should always be , a two - way street . I accept the very strong feeling and deeply personal experience that be bring to bear for those people contact their mp , and nothing I say should be take as diminish the right of campaigner to make their case strongly and consistently , but I and other have experience lobbying by campaigner whose passion for secure the outcome they want have lead they to question the integrity , sincerity or understanding of those mp seek a different outcome to they . some high - profile campaigner have make unhelpful remark . although I be not religious , I be concerned to see the clumsy criticism of those whose objection to the Bill be think to be centre in their religious belief , as be mention by the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) and for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I need to make progress . I say that not least because I suspect that a very large number of supporter of the Bill might draw on their christian or other religious compassion to explain why they want to see it pass . there be widespread reporting of how powerful the Second Reading debate be in showcase the good of Parliament , with thoughtful debate and a consideration of nuanced and varied viewpoint . if Parliament demonstrate itself at its good , that create a call for the public to do the same . I agree with the shadow Minister that the second Reading debate be Parliament at its good . would he say that the length of time that we have have to debate the Bill today , give the number of amendment and the number of people who want to speak , show Parliament at its good ? I have express my view on that matter . I understand why member be concern , but it have be in order , and at your discretion , Mr Speaker . MPs who disagree with campaigner ' view for or against assist dying be not uncaring or lack in compassion . they have not fail to understand the argument ; they have just inevitably disagree with at least some of their constituent . I urge campaigner to use their passion and commitment to the cause to fuel their campaigning , as be their right , but to pause and reach understanding before criticise an MP simply because they have reach a different view on a very challenging matter . in a democracy , the public be as important as politician in determine the quality of our discourse . I hope that my remark remind people of that , and encourage they to aspire to be the good example of the behaviour that they want to see from their elect representative , just as we have see again in the Chamber today . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I appreciate that you and the team have have a very difficult day , but as someone who table an amendment but have not have the opportunity to speak to it , I would like clarification that if a closure motion be move , my amendment , as well as those table by other member who have be unable to speak to they , will not receive further debate . to be quite honest with you , the amendment that we have discuss be the one that we have get through . on the amount of time allocate , in fairness , we be presume what will come next . I be go to call the Minister ; if a closure motion be move , I will decide at that moment whether to accept it . the fact that many amendment may not have be speak to be not unusual , which be why consideration will not last for one day , as per the normal procedure ; it will continue over further day , on which further amendment will be discuss , and of course there will be Third read at a later date . I call the Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker , and I thank member across the House for their excellent contribution to the debate . as member will know , the Government remain neutral on the passage of the Bill , promote by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , and on the principle of assist dying , which we have always be clear be a decision for Parliament . I therefore begin by clarify that I be speak in today ' s debate as the Minister responsible , jointly with my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , for ensure that the Bill , if pass , be effective , legally robust and workable . she and I be pleased to be member of the Bill Committee , again to provide advice on the workability and technical effectiveness of the Bill as it go through detailed line - by - line scrutiny . I will not , therefore , give a Government view on the merit of any individual amendment in term of their policy intent , as define by the Member who table they , as that be rightly a matter for the House to decide . I will instead focus my remark on amendment that the Government deem to give rise to significant workability concern , and those amendment that have be table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley with technical drafting support from the Government , which have be develop to ensure that the Bill be technically and legally workable . while I will not give an assessment of all the amendment table by other member , I ask the House to note that they have not be draft on the basis of advice or with technical drafting support from official . therefore , the Government be unable to confirm that those amendment be fully workable , effective or enforceable , though I acknowledge the point make by the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) . I will begin with obligation , duty and protection for medical practitioner . new clause 10 and amendment 52 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley , replace clause 28 and expand the safeguard to ensure that no person be under any duty to participate . the new clause also clarify several function where certain profession or person be under no duty to participate , include social care worker , pharmacist or person act as a proxy or witness . finally , it provide that certain function can not be opt out of — for example , the recording of matter in a personal medical record . new clause 11 and consequential amendment 64 and 65 , also table by my hon . friend , provide for the replacement of the co - ordinating or independent doctor where that doctor be unable or unwilling to continue to carry out their function under the Bill , other than through illness or death . a number of amendment have be table in this area by other member , and I shall briefly set out the Government ' s analysis of they . amendment ( a ) to new clause 10 would allow an employer to prevent their employee from participate in the provision of assist dying . it be not clear how that be intend to work alongside other obligation on professional to perform certain duty lay out elsewhere in the Bill . as a result , employee may end up with conflicting obligation . it be also not clear how the amendment will work with the protection for employee from detriment and unfair dismissal by their employer should they choose to participate in the provision of assist dying . if employer can prevent their entire workforce from participate in the provision of assist dying , the service might not be available or could be much more difficult to access . new clause 17 and 18 would require a person to leave the care home in which they reside to access assistance under the Bill . when a person permanently reside in a care home , that be treat as their private home , so there be the potential for human right issue to be raise later on : specifically , a person ' s right to respect for private and family life under article 8 of the european convention on human right . new clause 17 would prevent regulated care home and hospice from face any detrimental consequence for not provide or permit assistance in accordance with the Bill . it would also provide that their funding must not be conditional on they provide or permit such assistance to take place on their premise . new clause 18 , in introduce a statutory right for a care home or hospice provider to decide whether they wish to provide or permit assistance to be provide on their premise , would similarly mean that a person who be terminally ill could be ask or require to leave that care home or hospice to receive assistance under the Bill . rise — I will just make a little progress . amendment 60 may similarly prevent access to an assisted death for those reside within a care home or hospice , if that care home or hospice decide it would not allow such assistance on its premise . the Minister be make a very important point , and this be what I deal with in my few short remark . if , accord to the Minister , care home run by religious order will have to provide this service , those order will have to get out of care home altogether . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention . as I say , the Government do not take a position on the policy intent that my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley have set out . I would simply observe that if somebody have be in a home for a considerable period of time , that home be then consider to be their home . as such , any action to take they out of that home could engage article 8 of the ECHR , on the right to family life . I now turn to the procedure for receive assistance under the Bill , include safeguard and protection . first , I will speak to the amendment that have be table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley with technical workability and draft advice from the Government . amendment 58 clarify the duty on the Secretary of State to make through regulation provision for training about reasonable adjustment and safeguard for autistic people and those with a learn disability . that remedy previously unclear wording in the Bill . amendment 60 be require to make provision for circumstance where the independent doctor die or , through illness , be unable or unwilling to act as the independent doctor . amendment 67 and 68 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley , clarify that an approve substance can be self - administer use a device should the individual be unable to self - administer without one . amendment 91 give effect to amendment 273 , which be accept in Committee , by ensure that datum will be record in the final statement to ensure coherence within the Bill . I turn now to the amendment table by other member on the subject of procedure , safeguard and protection that the Government have assess may create workability issue if vote into the Bill . new clause 7 would limit the number of time two doctor can be jointly involve in the assessment of a person seek assist die to three time within a 12 - month period . in situation where there be a limited pool of doctor in any geographical location or area of medicine , that could limit access to assist dying and create inequality in access . new clause 9 would require the co - ordinating doctor , independent doctor and assist die review panel to apply the criminal standard of proof that require they to be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt . case consider by the panel be civil matter , and as such it would not be usual practice for the criminal standard of proof to be apply to their decision making — and it be a very high bar . the provision would also impose additional standard on the assess doctor that fall outside the usual framework for medical decision making . be the Minister say that , in his view , it be well that someone who should not die do die , than that someone who should die do not ? as a Minister at the Dispatch Box , with the Government be neutral , I be not comment on the policy intent of the Bill . what I be say be that the new clause could create significant uncertainty . for example , it be not clear how the standard it introduce would interact with the definition of " terminal illness " set out in clause 2 , which require that a person ' s death " can reasonably be expect within six month " , as it be not clear whether " reasonably be expect " fit within the balance of probability threshold or be beyond reasonable doubt . amendment 101 would exclude any person with a learn disability , include people with Down syndrome , from a preliminary discussion about assist dying unless they raise the subject themselves , irrespective of whether they would otherwise be eligible . that may be subject to challenge under various international agreement , include the United Nations convention on the right of person with disability and article 14 of the european convention on human right , which prohibit disability discrimination . amendment 102 would introduce a requirement that " the register medical practitioner must ensure that the person have no remediable suicide risk factor which pose a significant risk to their life " before hold a preliminary discussion under clause 5 . the term " remediable suicide risk factor " and " a significant risk to their life " have not be define , so the amendment may be difficult to operationalise . I table amendment 102 in good faith , as I think it might be workable . I want to reflect on what the Minister say at the beginning of his speech . I do not recall ever be offer an opportunity to pass my amendment to Government official to ensure that they would be workable . give the scope of what we be debate this afternoon , it sound very much like any amendment that have not be table by the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) have no chance of be take forward unless she accept they . hear , hear . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . she may have note the comment from the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle : approximately 500 amendment be table in Committee , and approximately one third of they be accept . there be a pretty robust process for look at whether amendment be acceptable , and the Government be involve in comment and advise on all of they . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . amendment 87 would require the co - ordinating doctor to " take all reasonable step " to establish whether a first declaration have previously be make , so it may slow down the process for access assist die . amendment 45 would significantly impact the operability of the Bill . it would duplicate the role of the assist die review panel , and place an additional burden on the co - ordinating doctor to convene the clinical panel . it would also require additional NHS and social care resource , particularly palliative care consultant . that could slow down a person ' s access to an assisted death , because there be no requirement on when the panel must be convene , and it could take some time to set up , give the demand on health and social care professional . the amendment do not specify who be to be on the clinical panel in situation where the co - ordinating doctor be neither a gp nor a consultant . similarly , there be no provision for whether the clinical panel be to make its decision unanimously or by majority . amendment 48 would require significant change to the function and focus of the body that be propose to present argument to the panel as to why a certificate of eligibility could not be grant . where an official solicitor act as an advocate to the court , their purpose be to assist the court on a difficult or novel point of law , not to perform an adversarial function . similarly , there be no precedent for the Attorney General , his Majesty ' s Procurator General or the Treasury Solicitor to intervene in a case in the way that be envisage , as their role be to act on behalf of , or provide advice to , the Government , and not to represent a specific argument . in the Government ' s view , there be no exist public body that be well suited to undertake this adversarial role . have the Minister any sympathy with the point make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) ? the panel might struggle to get the evidence it need to make a decision , and there be no mechanism to address a situation in which , in the absence of that evidence , the panel make a decision , but evidence then come forward that suggest that its decision be incorrect . do the Minister have any workable idea for address that issue ? clause 15 set out the process that the panel must go through . it include a right for the panel to request information and input from a range of potentially interested people . clause 15 ( 4 ) ( d ) appear already to cater for the intended effect of the amendment in the name of the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . rise — I will give way one final time . I be conscious of the confine of the Minister ' s role in the process , but what assessment have the Government make of the capacity of a panel to investigate for itself anything that be not bring before it either by one of the relevant doctor or by the person seek a certificate ? the panel ' s capacity to do so be surely important , if any issue that be not raise by either group be relevant to its consideration . the Government ' s position on the relevant clause be that the panel have to be satisfied that the correct step have be take , and there be not evidence of the point that the right hon . and learn Gentleman have make . our view be that the intended effect be already cater for in clause 15 . amendment 38 would exclude from be provide with assistance a person who be not already terminally ill , as define under the Bill . the reference to " standard medical treatment " be unclear . this could cause further uncertainty around eligibility , give that treatment could be individually tailor to each patient and their need . amendment 81 would remove the requirement that any reference to capacity in the Bill be to be read in accordance with the Mental Capacity Act 2005 . that would effectively remove the definition of capacity in the Bill . in the absence of a new definition , the Mental Capacity Act may continue to apply by default . that would , of course , diverge from the familiar concept in the Mental Capacity Act , which could create confusion for practitioner . the stated intention of amendment 14 be to exclude a person who would not otherwise meet the definition of " terminally ill " if the person meet that definition solely as a result of voluntarily stop eating or drink . our assessment be that the amendment risk introduce uncertainty over a person ' s eligibility for assistance under the Bill . however , the substantive question be a policy choice for Parliament . recognise the intent of the amendment , we do not believe that it would render the Bill unworkable . once again , I thank all hon . member for their contribution . I hope that these observation have help they in their consideration of the amendment that have be table . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . the House proceed to a Division . there be a delay in the No Lobby . will the Serjeant at arm please go and inspect ? Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Maureen Burke Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Adam Dance Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann davy Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Oliver Dowden Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Gill Furniss Mark Garnier Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Natasha iron Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Warinder Juss Chris Kane Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Mike Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joe Morris Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Chris Philp Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Peter Swallow Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Richard Tice Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome James Wild Steve Witherden Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Bambos Charalambous Sarah Owen Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Antonia Bance Johanna Baxter Apsana Begum Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Gregory Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Feryal Clark James Cleverly Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Ashley Dalton Steve Darling Jonathan Davies Mims davy Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Charlie Dewhirst Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Maya Ellis Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Peter Fortune Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Louie French James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner John Glen Mary Glindon John Grady Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Monica Harding Emma Hardy Rebecca Harris Helen Hayes John Hayes Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Robert Jenrick Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Uma Kumaran Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Emma Lewell - Buck Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell James McMurdock Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Grahame Morris Joy Morrissey Margaret Mullane David Mundell Katrina Murray Josh Newbury Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Priti Patel Matthew Patrick Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Richard Quigley Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon David Simmonds David Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Alison Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Laurence Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Melanie Ward Helen Whately John Whittingdale David Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Jeremy Wright Patricia Ferguson Ruth Jones the House have divide : Ayes 288 , Noes 239 . question accordingly agree to . question put accordingly , that the clause be read a second time . question agree to . new clause 10 accordingly read a second time . Amendment propose to new clause 10 : ( a ) , after subsection ( 8 ) ( b ) insert — " ( 8a ) nothing in Schedule ( protection from Detriment ) prevent an employer who have choose not to participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act from prohibit their employee or worker from provide such assistance in the course of their employment or work with that employer . " — ( Rebecca Paul . ) this amendment ensure that employee who work for an employer who have choose not to provide assist dying can not do so whilst work for that employer . question put , that the amendment be make . the House proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm inspect the Aye Lobby , as there appear to be a hold - up ? diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Antonia Bance Johanna Baxter Apsana Begum Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Gregory Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Feryal Clark James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Tom Collins Liam Conlon John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Ashley Dalton Steve Darling Edward Davey Jonathan Davies Mims Davies Marsha de Cordova Charlie Dewhirst Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Maya Ellis Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Peter Fortune Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Mark Francois Louie French James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner John Glen Mary Glindon John Grady Helen Grant Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Monica Harding Emma Hardy Rebecca Harris Helen Hayes John Hayes Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Robert Jenrick Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Lillian Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Uma Kumaran Ben Lake Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Emma Lewell - Buck Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon James McMurdock Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Mark Pritchard Richard Quigley Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon David Simmonds David Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Alison Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Jessica Toale Thomas Tugendhat Laurence Turner Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Melanie Ward Chris Webb Helen Whately John Whittingdale David Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Ruth Jones Joy Morrissey Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Adam Dance Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Oliver Dowden Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Gill Furniss Mark Garnier Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Natasha iron Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Warinder Juss Chris Kane Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Mike Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joe Morris Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Susan Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Chris Philp Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Peter Swallow Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Richard Tice Marie Tidball Henry Tufnell Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome James Wild Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Bambos Charalambous Sarah Owen the House have divide : Ayes 243 , Noes 279 . question accordingly negative . motion make , that new clause 10 be add to the Bill . — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) object . the Speaker interrupt the business ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . Bill to be far consider on Friday 13 June . business without Debate Animal Welfare ( Responsibility for Dog on Dog Attacks ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . secure 16 to 19 Academies Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . court ( Remote Hearings ) Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . bailiff ( Warrants of Possession ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 June . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 June . football ( Gender Inequality ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . child ' s Hospices ( Funding ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 4 July . political Donations Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Arms Trade ( Inquiry and Suspension ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . river , Streams and Lakes ( Protected Status ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 4 July . Interpersonal Abuse and Violence against Men and Boys ( Strategy ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 June . Heritage Public Houses Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Chalk Streams ( Protection ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 June . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 June . Immigration and Visas Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 June . Stockport Railway Station Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) I welcome the opportunity to debate the condition of Stockport railway station . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and Mr Speaker for grant time for the debate . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — in particular to the donation from trade union to the Stockport constituency Labour party . first , I thank all staff at Stockport station , include cleaner , security staff , engineer , ticket office staff , platform safety staff and everyone in the retail outlet . I be a frequent user of Stockport station , and I know that many of my parliamentary colleague from Greater Manchester prefer to come to that station to get their train into London and will be familiar with its condition . stockport have a rich and proud railway heritage , and I welcome this debate as we mark 200 year of british railway . the magnificent Stockport viaduct , one of Stockport ' s most iconic landmark , stand as a tower reminder of our town ' s long connection to the railway , date back to the 19th century . complete in 1840 , it remain one of the large brick building structure in the country , and be a marvel of victorian engineering . the railway help Stockport to become a key part of the north - west ' s industrial growth . it support the growth of the cotton and hat industry , connected worker to job and give business access to market across the country . I be not sure whether you have be to the Hat Works museum in Stockport , Madam Deputy Speaker , but may I invite you to visit ? even today , the railway continue to shape our local economy , connect we to Manchester , London and beyond . Greater Manchester be the fast - grow economy in the UK . its £ 80 billion economy have grow by 50 % since 2000 , with a 4 . 5 % gross value add in 2022 alone . we need a first - class , high - quality and reliable railway station to continue facilitate that growth . hundred of train , be they passenger or freight train , pass through Stockport station . I welcome the Government ' s recent progress in establish Great British Railways . the move to take passenger rail service into common ownership will allow for more reliable train service in Stockport and across the country . that be a key labour manifesto promise , and we will deliver it in government . stockport be a busy and important station . the late figure show 3 . 8 million entry and exit in the past year — just under 4 million . the most popular destination from Stockport station be Manchester Piccadilly , with around 1 . 3 million journey on that route annually . we hear a lot about climate change , net zero and pledge to tackle global warming . it be really important to invest in our public transport infrastructure to give people the option of a reasonably price , reliable , safe public transport network . if we want people to leave their car and personal vehicle at home and use public transport , high - quality service must be available at the station . one of the most serious issue that affect Stockport station be accessibility . disabled passenger too often face faulty lift and have no way to access the platform . I be grateful to my constituency neighbour for give way in this really important debate . I start my journey to the Chamber today at Stockport station . I completely agree with his comment , but I wonder whether he would go far . our ambition for accessibility on our railway network need to expand beyond the mainline station . stockport be an extremely important station for my Hazel Grove constituent , but we need to ensure accessibility at station such as Woodley , Rose Hill Marple and Romiley so that all passenger can access our railway network , not just those who have two leg that can get they up a steep slope . I agree entirely . to go back to my previous point , if we want people to use public transport , we need to offer service that match their need . I live in Hazel Grove for several year , and I know the station that the hon . Lady mention . I agree that Stockport be a large station — it have almost 4 million entry and exit in the last reporting period — but we should not overlook the small station . unfortunately , over the last few decade , the north and north - west of England have be overlook when it come to transport investment . I agree with the hon . Lady , and there be a lot to be say about people commute from small station to large station and get connection to Manchester airport , Birmingham , Cornwall , London or even Scotland . disabled passenger too often face faulty lift and have no way to access the platform , and that problem be persistent across my constituency . sadly , three out of five rail station in my constituency — Brinnington , Heaton Chapel and Reddish South — do not have step - free access , and I want to see that address as soon as possible . it be simply unacceptable that disabled passenger , parent with pushchair , old people and people who be less mobile than we be exclude from use their local station with dignity and ease . I want to put on the record my thank to Nathaniel Yates , a local champion from the reddish part of Stockport — I think the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) have meet he — who have do a lot of work on step - free access at railway station , not just in Stockport but across Greater Manchester . I be sorry to intrude in a debate on Stockport railway station , but I feel a burn need to highlight the issue of Dalston Kingsland station . that railway line be the London Overground but the Mayor of London have rename it different thing in different area , and that part be now the Mildmay line . that station have no lift , unlike other on that line . that really be a big issue , especially as it be close to the world - famous Ridley Road market , so it attract a lot of visitor . I hope the Minister will cover how fast we can get lift into station without step - free access . I be not familiar with that station , but I agree wholeheartedly that people should not be exclude from our public transport network due to their physical ability . that be just not acceptable in modern Britain . I want to call out the previous Conservative Government ' s plan to close hundred of ticket office , include at key station such as Stockport . those proposal be entirely unacceptable because they ignore the need of disabled passenger , old traveller and anyone who be less able to use the internet . disabled people already face numerous barrier in access the railway and be three time less likely to travel by rail than non - disabled people . that be why it be so important that we have good - quality , reliable infrastructure that support disabled people , and lift and door that do not break down frequently , as they do at Stockport station . ticket office provide a fix location for passenger to locate staff and , therefore , advice and assistance . that be particularly important for many disabled people , who be less able to search the station for a roam member of staff . the RMT union have long - stand concern about Avanti ' s failure to fill station staff vacancy and its widespread reliance on fix - term contract . that understaffing be lead to delay at ticket office and case of ticket office not be open during their advertise and regulated hour . that clearly impact the passenger experience , safety and accessibility . sadly , it seem that Avanti be put private profit before public safety and accessibility . I be tell that Avanti pay out shareholder dividend of £ 8 . 1 million in 2024 . ticket office staffing in Stockport be inconsistent and simply not good enough . the Government should instruct Avanti to permanently fill all exist vacancy , transfer staff on fix - term contract to permanent contract and ensure its ticket office and station be properly staff . as I have note , Stockport station be one of the busy in Greater Manchester , yet its condition be far below what passenger deserve . I welcome the recent announcement by Network Rail to repair the frequently faulty lift — £ 46 , 000 be be invest at the station to make step - free access more reliable for passenger — but that should be the start , not the end of the investment at our station . basic maintenance be fall behind at the station , with leak roof , wear out toilet , and poor drainage cause repeat flooding on platform . one resident describe the station as " incredibly uninviting " . they say that the " light be dim because they be cover in year of cobwebs and grime " and that part of the station be in " dire condition , often leak " . the station ' s pedestrian tunnel be dark , damp and neglect . one resident describe it as be like an " old air raid shelter " . another resident say that the station feel " poor , tired and dark " and that she " doesn ' t feel safe travel as a woman alone in the evening or early morning " . ticket vend machine be unreliable and the edgely entrance to Stockport station be in a dire state . the station be well run but understaffed . resident have report to I a lack of gate staff , no permanent british Transport police presence , and serious concern about road safety on the Edgeley entrance side . tragically , there be recently a collision that leave a member of the public injure on that side of the station , which be sad news . I have raise these issue with Avanti . the broken main entrance door be finally replace , but it should not have take public shaming to get essential fix do . while I welcome Network Rail ' s investment in the Greek Street bridge near the station — it be invest almost £ 20 million in that project — it need to go far and fast in improve the station for all . I highlight that the viaduct , which I mention early , be an iconic part of Stockport ' s skyline , but it be not part of Stockport station . the investment of £ 20 million in the Greek Street bridge be also welcome , but that be not part of the station . we need ringfence investment in the station . I be recently out with the Network Rail team — I think it be in February — who have spend almost £ 1 . 1 million clean up and repair the viaduct . that be great news for our town and for railway user , but the station need a lot of love and investment . many people rely on the station , whether for commute across the north - west or visit Birmingham or London , but it have be unfairly leave behind . stockport resident be call for proper investment to bring the station in line with other across the region . they want safety , accessibility and basic decency . on a different point , I take the opportunity to urge the Minister to back the extension of the Metrolink tram system to Stockport town centre . that investment would be a huge boost for stockport ' s connectivity and local economy , help people to get to work , school and healthcare appointment more easily and sustainably . we have great connection from Stockport station , but sadly during covid TransPennine Express stop direct service between Stockport and Manchester airport . I write to it but unfortunately get a disappointing response ; I will be go back to it . I urge the Minister to visit it with I at some point . the absence of a direct service from Stockport to Manchester airport create unnecessary inconvenience for many resident , particularly those who rely on public transport for work . Manchester Airports Group be a large employer in my constituency , and many people commute from my constituency to Manchester airport . the indirect route be difficult for those carry heavy luggage and for those who be less mobile or need assistance . I want to see that service reinstate as soon as possible . I have mention this on a number of occasion in the Chamber , but may I pay tribute to the friend of reddish South station ? they be a brilliant community group in the reddish part of Stockport who have work tirelessly to improve their local railway station . they have be campaign for year for proper rail service at Reddish South . currently , Reddish South station have one train a week . imagine have a local train station with one train a week — it be just ridiculous . I echo the call for further investment by Network Rail in well signal in and around Stockport . some of the engineering part and equipment use around Stockport be quite date . we need to ensure that the signal infrastructure and equipment be the late , cut - edge equipment for safety standard and ease of use . we also need to unlock the future capability and reliability of our railway network , so that would be welcome . I be also very grateful to Friends of Heaton Chapel Station , who make a valuable and wonderful contribution to the community of Stockport . I have gather some feedback from member of staff at Stockport station , so I will quickly mention that . many member might be surprised to discover that we have an unusually name platform 0 at Stockport station . sadly , due to staffing shortage platform 0 be often close , because there be not enough Avanti staff . the Passenger Assist scheme , which be suppose to help those who be less mobile , those with health condition or those with disability to access the railway , be a vital lifeline for many people . unfortunately , I be tell that the staffing for the Passenger Assist scheme be so poor at Stockport station that it be cover by one member of staff on a part - time basis . when that staff member be not in , platform staff , who should be focus on railway safety with train arrive and depart , have to assist passenger . I recently table write parliamentary question 41630 on Passenger Assist . I thank the Minister and the Government for the £ 10 million to improve the Passenger Assist service . the capability to book a ticket , request assistance and reserve a seat in one single transaction will be widely welcome by pretty much everyone — I can not think of anyone who would be oppose to it . british Transport police do a fantastic job , but they do not have a permanent presence at Stockport station and neither do we have permanent security staff . I call on Avanti and Network Rail to work together to resolve that . I want Stockport station to be a place that resident can be proud of . the station be not just a local hub ; it be a vital part of our critical national infrastructure . it deserve the investment , accessibility and support to match . Network Rail must accelerate investment in lift , drainage , roofing and accessibility . More must be do to address basic maintenance failure before they become hazardous . I also want Avanti and Network Rail to work at pace to improve the staff facility , which need to be upgrade . they do a fantastic job — I have already place on record my thank to they — and they deserve good quality facility when they take their break , and when they start and end their shift . I welcome the share of the city region sustainable transport settlement that Stockport will receive to progress development at Stockport station , but I urge the Minister to go far and fast with funding for modernisation and well connectivity at Stockport . I also ask the Minister to urge Avanti to end its over - reliance on temporary contract and to fill ticket office vacancy . sadly , I personally find that the ticket office at Stockport be frequently close during advertise hour when it should be open . ticket office closure risk dent revenue by deter passenger , particularly disabled people , from use the railway . passenger safety , service and accessibility be vital for a thriving railway . I invite the Minister to visit Stockport again . I understand that he have be twice since he take up his position . both time , he visit on a sit day when I be in Westminster , so I invite he to visit again . I would love to take he to reddish South station , which have one train a week ; stockport station , which have almost 4 million passenger rail entry and exit ; and Brinnington and Heaton Chapel station , which do not have step - free access . I be grateful to many organisation , include the trade union , which provide briefing for this debate . Avanti and Network Rail also help I with a briefing . Nick from Avanti , in particular , have be really helpful . I conduct a survey on my Facebook page seek feedback from resident and passenger on Stockport station . I receive several submission and I be so grateful to each and every one of the respondent for help I to write this speech . I hope the Minister be able to address some of the point I have make , but my last point be that Network Rail and Avanti need to do so much more to make sure that Stockport station , and the small station in Stockport , get the investment they have deserve for far too long . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) on secure the debate and provide the opportunity to discuss Stockport railway station . I thank the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) and my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) for their intervention . let I start by talk a little bit about this important train station . stockport station be a vital transport interchange in south Greater Manchester . sit on the west coast main line approach to Manchester Piccadilly , it provide access and connectivity across the country to commuter , leisure travel and freight . on average , 501 passenger and freight train pass through the station per day . that be 10 , 000 pay passenger a day , with 5 , 000 to 6 , 000 pass through the station . the industry be work collaboratively to engage with local stakeholder who have concern and a vision for the station . Network Rail ' s engagement with local stakeholder be fundamental to shape plan for the future of the station , and it will continue to welcome input and to be transparent about timescale and issue as they arise . the Stockport corridor be critical for a range of express , regional and local passenger service and freight . it support some very important flow nationally as well as offer a key destination in the interchange hub at Stockport station itself . the route from Stockport into Manchester be very constrain , which mean that it be extremely difficult to plan any additional service through it reliably . while other interfacing scheme might increase capacity and capability elsewhere on the network , the constraint at Stockport act as a bottleneck when try to uplift service frequency overall . Network Rail and the industry be work through the option to address capability and capacity , work with mayor and transport authority on what future plan there could be for the Stockport corridor . the Minister be talk about the assessment of various option . we know that the Treasury be look at review the content of the Green Book that measure the benefit and disbenefit of any capital spending . can he say a few word on how we can ensure that the north , particularly the Stockport area , get its fair share of capital spending in the future to ensure that exist inequality be not bake into the calculation that the Treasury make ? we obviously want to see growth in every corner of the country , and we be await the spending review outcome , as be everybody else . we be aware that our partner will have their own priority for the future of railway in their area , and we be open to engage with they directly on their plan . the core aim of the Stockport station redevelopment scheme be to support future increase in rail patronage and green travel and to drive clean and sustainable economic growth . it will improve the accessibility , attractiveness and useability of Stockport station and reduce town centre severance . there be an opportunity to leverage a package of work through the Greater Manchester authority ' s sustainable transport settlement funding for delivery by March 2027 , which would include a refurbishment of platform building , with a focus on platform 1 and 2 . Stockport council , Network Rail and Avanti be meet today to far scope out that work . Avanti West Coast have fund available for the current financial year to undertake work at the station , which will focus on staff facility that need upgrading and some accessibility enhancement . we will share further information as those plan be develop . I thank the hon . member for Hazel Grove for her intervention , and I will touch on Passenger Assist . Avanti have see a significant increase in passenger assistance over the last 12 month , and it be now review its Passenger Assist process so that it can meet the need of passenger on that service . I thank the Minister for make that point . I have a conversation with Avanti recently about the Passenger Assist scheme . the west coast main line network that Avanti service be a major network in this country , and Avanti should welcome the fact that more disabled people want to use its service . I be tell by member of staff at the station , which have 3 . 8 million entry and exit per year , that one member of staff on a part - time basis support Passenger Assist . I be sure the Minister will agree that that be simply not good enough and that Avanti need to do a lot well . I want to see a railway and a transport system across the country that be accessible to everybody . I will take away my hon . friend ' s comment on this individual case and discuss it far with the Rail Minister . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch . I be happy to meet with she to discuss the accessibility challenge that she have raise . I also look forward to meet with Nathaniel Yates , who my hon . Friend quite rightly highlight for his work on accessibility . I will talk a little about some of the other major work carry out by Network Rail in and around Stockport . Network Rail be deliver a £ 20 million project to rebuild the Greek Street bridge , which carry a major road junction over the Manchester spur of the west coast main line in Stockport . throughout the work , Network Rail have keep the local community inform with regular drop - in event , which have be well attend , and have receive no complaint about the work since the closure of the road . the project team have an excellent presence on site , regularly check in with neighbour , local business , school and college in the area to reduce the impact of the work as much as possible . the Minister be be extremely generous . as I mention in my speech , I welcome the £ 20 million investment in the Greek Street bridge and the £ 1 . 1 million investment to clean the viaduct and repair the brickwork . but if we be be honest , the Greek Street bridge and the viaduct be not part of Stockport station . they be of course an essential part of our railway network , but I want to see real investment in Stockport station for passenger and staff member , so I hope Network Rail be watch and take note of that . my hon . friend be quite right , and I hear what he say , but it be important that we point out the wide investment in the rail system there , include the £ 1 . 1 million to refurnish the iconic Stockport viaduct , which be build back in 1840 . let I move on to the issue of step - free access at Brinnington , Heaton Chapel and Reddish South station , which I know my hon . friend be interested in . since its launch in 2006 , the Access for all programme have deliver step - free access at more than 260 station across Great Britain . only about half of the station in Great Britain have step - free access to and between all platform . however , around 75 % of journey on the GB rail network be through step - free station , compare with 50 % in 2005 . I recommend that my hon . friend and his constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Hazel Grove , engage with the local authority and Northern Trains to propose that Brinnington , Heaton Chapel and Reddish South be a priority in any future funding round , as none of those station be nominate for the last round . in the meantime , the Department will continue to seek further opportunity to improve rail accessibility , and if the industry install , replace or renew infrastructure at the station , that will need to comply with current accessibility standard . on the service provide at Reddish South station , the Department expect operator to match the capacity and frequency of their service to demand , although they must also be operationally sustainable and deliver value for taxpayer . the Rail North partnership , through which the Department and Transport for the North jointly manage the contract with northern train , which serve Reddish South , will assess any business case that be put forward . the analysis must balance the economic and social benefit of any enhancement with the performance of exist service and the financial impact of a taxpayer subsidy . I turn to the direct service from Stockport to Manchester airport — an issue I know my hon . friend the Member for Stockport be keen on . the Sheffield - Manchester airport service , which offer direct service between Stockport and the airport , be withdraw in December 2022 as part of the timetable develop by the Manchester taskforce , which include the DFT , the train operator , Network Rail , Transport for Greater Manchester and Transport for the North . we see improved connectivity as an important factor in grow the northern and national economy and would hope that new infrastructure would allow direct service from Stockport to the airport , although I must stress that other town and city could make a case for their pre - 2022 direct connection to be restore as well . I thank my hon . friend again for the debate , at which we have discuss a number of important issue affect rail service in his constituency . he rightly point out that I have visit his constituency not once but twice . I hope he do not take it personally that on each occasion it be a sit day . I will do my utmost to return to Stockport — as long as he can guarantee that the sun be shine . question put and agree to . House adjourn .