Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Labour Market what recent assessment he have make of the strength of the labour market in Scotland . I pay tribute to two great scot who have sadly die in recent day . Winnie Ewing blaze a trail for woman in politic . she be admire by colleague from all Scotland ' s party as one of the most important politician of her generation . our thought be with her friend and family , particularly her child Fergus and Annabelle . and with Craig Brown ' s pass on Monday , scottish football lose a true legend who be hold in high regard by player and fan across the country . again , our thought be with his love one . I be encourage by the resilience that the scottish labour market have show , despite global issue still cause significant economic challenge . the late official figure show that scottish unemployment be close to a record low at 3 . 1 % . I welcome that fact . if we be to grow the scottish economy as well as the national one , it be vital that we have a skilled workforce and the right level of investment . it be also important for area such as the Borders , between Scotland and England , to have the least friction in trade and labour market condition . do the Secretary of State agree that politician of all persuasion have a responsibility to ensure maximum opportunity on whichever side of the border , to ensure the least amount of friction , particularly for those look for employment ? I agree . that be exactly why this Government introduce the United Kingdom Internal Market Act ( 2020 ) : to protect frictionless trade across the UK . on maximise opportunity on whichever side of the border , it be a matter of some regret that Scotland be the highest tax part of the United Kingdom . I call the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . the Secretary of State and I represent large , rural constituency with large hospitality and tourism sector . will he therefore name one benefit that end freedom of movement have bring to the labour market in either sector ? the Scottish National party like to blame everything on Brexit , but for the past two year we have have record immigration into the United Kingdom . that be a simple fact — record number since immigration figure begin . I have the pleasure and privilege of be elect to the Scottish Parliament in 1999 alongside Winnie Ewing . she be undoubtedly an iconic figure of modern scottish politic , from the Hamilton by - election to Madame É cosse and the opening of the Scottish Parliament . I always find she to be kind and sympathetic to new member , and she always have the good story . may she rest in peace . do my right hon . friend agree that the one thing that will reduce confidence in the scottish labour market be the prospect of another independence referendum — real or de facto ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . business do not like uncertainty , and the constant harping on about independence be cause uncertainty among business . the devolved Administration in Scotland should focus on the thing that they be set up to do : education standard , the health service , drug death and get some ferry rather than try to create the island clearance . cost of live what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the impact of cost of live increase on household in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the impact of cost of live increase on household in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the impact of cost of live increase on household in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the impact of cost of live increase on household in Scotland . these question show the originality of thought among the opposition party . the United Kingdom Government recognise the challenge face household due to elevated cost of living and so have take action to protect struggle family with the large support package in Europe . UK - wide , support to household to help with high bill be worth £ 94 billion , or £ 3 , 300 per household on average . over the winter , too many have have to make the decision whether to heat or eat — in fact , too many could not afford to do either . with food inflation well in excess of 15 % , and much high on specific staple item , people simply can not afford to eat . what advice do the Minister have for household in Scotland , and those in Sunderland who I represent , who be worried about be able to provide food for their family ? inflation be a problem affect many western economy , particularly those in Europe , and it be right that this Government continue to provide cost of live support while stick to our plan to avoid add unnecessary inflationary pressure . the average household in Scotland receive £ 1 , 850 from the UK Government , with the poor household receive £ 2 , 445 . about £ 5 . 2 billion be spend in 2022 - 23 , which be more than the Scottish Government ' s entire annual welfare budget . after 13 consecutive hike in interest rate , the Institute for Fiscal Studies have warn that 1 . 4 million more householder could face a 20 % fall in disposable income . this mortgage crisis start with a disastrous Tory mini - Budget last September and be add to the cost of living crisis . will the Minister please explain what the hell his party be do to clean up the mess it create ? we do not accept that analysis . we recognise that this be a worrying time for homeowner and mortgage holder , but we can not ignore the fact that interest rate have rise across western economy as a result of the pandemic and the impact of the war in Ukraine . the Government remain committed to responsible economic management to bring inflation back under control , which be the only way to achieve sustainably low interest rate and mortgage rate . it be not just homeowner who be affect by spiral interest rate ; they also contribute to an average rent increase of over 8 % . the Scottish Government be do their bit , use the limited power they have . they have extend the rent cap and extend the eviction freeze into March , so that nobody in Scotland will be throw out of their house because they be poor ; and of course in Scotland , thank to the Scottish National party , we be not sell off council house but build more of they . what exactly be his Government do to protect tenant in Scotland and to prevent an increase in homelessness ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I know he recently announce that he will be stand down at the next election , and while he and I clearly do not agree politically , his eight year of service to the people of Glenrothes be worthy of recognition . as I say previously , tackle inflation be this Government ' s priority . it be the good way to support mortgage holder and the people who rent accommodation . be the Minister aware of the recent YouGov survey commission by Feeding Britain , which show that , in May , almost one in six adult in Scotland report that they or someone in their household have access food aid in the previous three month ? do he agree that it be now time for the Government to launch a food poverty strategy ? will he support the principle outline in my private Member ' s Bill to end food bank use by 2030 ? this United Kingdom Government remain absolutely committed to support the most vulnerable in society during these difficult time . that be evidence by our provide support to people who need it the most : for example , over £ 137 . 5 billion to pensioner on benefit , £ 67 . 9 billion on benefit to support disabled people and people live with health condition , and a furth £ 114 . 3 billion on welfare benefit for working - age adult and child . in addition , since April , benefit and state pension have be uprate by 10 . 1 % . this government be take the action that be most require to support the people in most need , and we reject the hon . Gentleman ' s analysis that we be do nothing . under the last Labour Government , absolute child poverty level in Scotland fall from 40 % in 1997 to 20 % in 2007 , but that have be all but reverse . the SNP Government be not on track to meet their own goal of lower child poverty to less than 10 % by 2030 — [ interruption . ] SNP Members shout , but there be a reason why they do so . what step be the UK Government take to ensure that child poverty return to the low level last see under the last Labour Government ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the failure of the Scottish Government , and SNP Members ' reaction show that they do not like be challenge . they shout , heckle and try to shut down any contrary argument . as I say , this Government be absolutely committed to support the most vulnerable in society . we will continue to support all part of our society — child , householder and anyone else who need support during these cost of living pressure . last year , £ 4 . 2 billion in balancing cost be add to our energy bill . that mean pay wind farm operator to turn off their turbine and at the same time pay gas operator to fire theirs up owe to grid constraint and a lack of storage . however , pump - storage hydro scheme in Scotland could create 15 , 000 job and low bill , so why be this Government not fight tooth and nail to put in place contractual arrangement that would get these scheme up and run ? in relation to the cost of living — the theme of these question — the energy price guarantee will save household £ 160 for the period until July , bring the total Government support for energy bill to £ 1 , 500 for a typical household since October 2022 . we be also end the premium pay by more than 4 million UK household for prepayment meter , bring their charge into line with those pay by comparable customer use direct debit . this Government be absolutely committed to support people who face cost of living pressure . I know that the Prime Minister and the Government be entirely focused on help people to deal with those pressure . however , the focus of the SNP Government seem to be elsewhere , as we see last weekend when the First Minister announce that the next election would be entirely focus on yet another independence referendum . do the Minister agree that that be the wrong priority for Scotland , and that Scotland ' s two government should be work together to improve the delivery of public service and help people with the cost of living ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . both of Scotland ' s government — the UK Government and the Scottish Government — should be focus on deliver well public service and support people with the cost of living , but instead we hear the SNP cheer about another independence referendum . this Government remain focused on deliver for the people of Scotland ; I be just sad that the SNP Government in Edinburgh fail to do so . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let I join the Secretary of State in his early tribute to Winnie Ewing and Craig Brown , both of whom pass away last week , and both of whom will be sadly miss . I hold Craig Brown personally responsible for moment of completely unbridled joy and total heartbreak . let I also wish the Secretary of State a happy birthday — a significant birthday — for next week . [ interruption . ] whoever shout " 80 " from the Back Benchers be not far away from his age , so happy birthday to he . nearly five month ago , the Secretary of State promise to arrange a meeting for David Williamson , a scottish terminal cancer patient , but neither his Department nor the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have be able to do so . I wonder whether that could be sort out as soon as possible . million of people across the country be face spiral mortgage rate and rent . statistic release by Citizens Advice Scotland this week show that the number of scottish mortgage holder search for advice on repossession be up by 341 % . do the Minister agree with the insightful advice from the Prime Minister that worry mortgage payer hit by a Tory mortgage premium should just " hold their nerve " ? I can confirm that the Scotland Office do write to the Department for Health and Social Care about the case of David Williamson , and I will undertake to ensure that we pursue that . as for mortgage rate , the Government recognise that this be a very concern time for homeowner and mortgage holder , but we can not ignore the fact that interest rate have rise across western economy as a result of the pandemic and the impact of the war in Ukraine . of course , the Bank of England set the base rate , which have an effect on mortgage pricing — as the hon . Member will recall , it be the Labour Government who make the Bank independent of Government . as he will also know , last week the Chancellor agree with mortgage lender a brand - new mortgage charter , which will hopefully provide some protection and reassurance for mortgage holder . the Scotland Office be say that scottish mortgage holder should just " hold their nerve " . what the Minister do not include in his list of excuse be the fact that the Tories actually crash the economy , which have result in some of these mortgage interest rate . be it not incredible that during the bad cost of live crisis in live memory the Prime Minister ' s entire approach be to tell people to hold their nerve , while the approach of the First Minister in Scotland be to launch proposal for a de facto referendum and a write constitution — something that he himself admit scottish voter do not want ? Scotland have two government so out of touch with the priority of the scottish people that polling show that 70 % think they be do little to help with the cost of living . do the Minister agree that what scot need and deserve be a UK Labour Government focus solely on deliver the priority of scottish voter ? this UK Government be very clear that now be not the time for another independence referendum , but the Labour party so often end up back SNP policy after SNP policy in Scotland . as we be approach the summer holiday , perhaps the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) should take his flip - flop and see whether there be space in the SNP ' s camper van . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for his kind word about Winnie Ewing and Craig Brown . let I pay my own personal tribute to Winnie Ewing , who be such an icon for our party and , almost uniquely , serve in three Parliaments — our own Madame É cosse . at over 19 % , food inflation in the UK be 50 % high than among our EU neighbour , yet both the Government and the Labour party seem to be in complete denial about Brexit ' s contribution to this cost of eat crisis . with 28 % of the UK ' s food come from Europe , how will the UK Government prevent a new surge in food price next winter , when extra post - Brexit check be introduce at the border ? as the Chancellor have say , food price inflation have be a problem in many part of Europe . in Germany , Sweden , Portugal and Poland , food price inflation be around 20 % , so this be not a UK - only problem . the Government be do everything they can to deal with Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine and the aftermath of the pandemic . we have one central focus , which be bring inflation down . we be ensure that be this Government ' s one priority . the London School of Economics have show that a third of food inflation in the UK be due to Brexit . with the loss of freedom of movement and european worker , Brexit have also cause £ 60 million of scottish fruit and veg to rot in the field , threaten farm and far increase the cost even of domestic produce . as a brexiteer , should the Secretary of State not apologise to the scottish public , include his own constituent , for drive up food price , and maybe explain why he still support the prove liar who be one of its main architect ? we do not accept the SNP ' s analysis . as I have already explain , food inflation be an issue in many part of Europe . it be a bit rich for an SNP Member to bring up food price inflation and rise cost , especially when leak paper this morning reveal that SNP Ministers in Edinburgh be discuss raise council tax by up to 22 . 5 % , mean that some people will end up pay £ 751 more per year . under the SNP in Scotland , local government funding have be gutte , force council to slash local service and impose large tax hike . I will take no lesson from the hon . member about bring price down for household in Scotland . allegation of Impropriety in Public Life what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his Department ' s policy on strengthen the Union of allegation of standard of impropriety in public life . the United Kingdom be the most successful political and economic union in the world — the foundation on which all our business and citizen be able to thrive . when we work collaboratively as one United Kingdom , we be safe , strong and more prosperous ; we be well able to draw on the institution that unite we , such as the health service , the armed force and our world - class education system ; and we be well able to respond to challenge , such as support family with the cost of live and lead the international response to Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine . do the Secretary of State think that the former Prime Minister , who be fine by the police and subsequently find to have knowingly lie to the late queen , this House and therefore the public , strengthen or weaken the Union ? the Union have never be strong , and this Prime Minister have say that those in public life should aspire to the high standard of propriety . I think we can all agree about the importance of politician tell the truth . in that context , have my right hon . Friend see the video release by the Scottish Government in which Cabinet Secretary Angus Robertson make a range of spurious claim about devolution be under attack by the UK Government ? if so , what do he think of it ? I do see Angus Robertson ' s video clip , and I think I count 16 false claim in the space of one minute and 40 second . that be a false claim every six second — pretty impressive , even by his standard . as usual , the nationalist be desperate to invent a grievance , but the reality be that the UK Government respect devolution , support it and strengthen it . the only people who want to destroy devolution be the one who want to rip we out of the United Kingdom . I call the shadow Minister . the Privileges Committee ' s conclusion be crystal clear that the former Prime Minister knowingly mislead this House and subsequently try to intimidate the very Committee carry out the inquiry he set up . why do the Secretary of State not set an example and vote for the Privileges Committee ' s report ? as I say to the medium when this question be raise in an interview last week , it be simply because I feel the report be too excessive in its conclusion . support for the Energy Industry what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support for the energy industry in Scotland . Scotland ' s energy industry be vital to support the UK ' s energy security . this Government have listen to Scotland ' s energy industry , and we understand the need to encourage industry investment . that be why we recently announce the energy security investment mechanism , which will remove the energy profit levy if oil and gas price fall to normal level for a sustained period prior to March 2028 . it be great to hear a cheer for the Secretary of State as he stand up . I be sure he agree that hydrogen production will be vital to meet both the UK ' s energy need and our net zero target . will he set out what the UK Government be do to promote the development and production of hydrogen in Scotland ? low - carbon hydrogen be critical to deliver energy security . it present a significant growth opportunity and will help the UK to reach net zero . we have double our ambition to 10 GW of low - carbon hydrogen production capacity by 2030 , and at least half of it will come from electrolytic hydrogen , draw on the scale up of UK offshore wind , other renewable and , of course , new nuclear . will the discussion with the Scottish Government also include the problem with national grid transmission , which mean National Grid be pay to turn off wind turbine because it can not afford to get the electricity they generate to the south of the country ? by law , transmission network charge be a matter for Ofgem , which be an independent regulator . it have recently produce a report on charge reform , and the Government be look at that report . Productive Forestry whether his Department have have recent discussion with the Scottish Government on support productive forestry planting in Scotland . although forestry be a devolved policy , we continue to work with the devolved administration to deliver a UK - wide step change in tree planting and establishment . last year , 50 % of forestry planting be much - need productive forestry for our construction and manufacturing industry . do my right hon . friend agree that there should now be a new UK - wide target that aim for 60 % of new planting to be productive , allow Scotland to lead the way for the rest of the UK ? my hon . friend be a champion for this industry , and it be the UK Government ' s ambition to increase plant across the United Kingdom . I know she be keen for productive forestry to be use to support the construction and manufacturing industry , which be also the Government ' s ambition . Scotland , as in so much else , lead the way on forestry and tree planting , at 10 , 000 hectare , fully three quarter of all tree plant across these island . can the Secretary of State instruct the House on how , around the Cabinet table , he have champion Scotland ' s progress in this area , or be he too cower ? not only do I champion it , I plant tree myself . child Poverty what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on trend in the level of child poverty in Scotland . what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on trend in the level of child poverty in Scotland . this Government be commit to tackle child poverty and protect the most vulnerable in society . in the recent Budget , the Chancellor announce additional support measure for household and family across Scotland and , indeed , across all part of the United Kingdom . a further example of support for family be announce early today , with the UK Government make childcare more affordable . almost 90 , 000 food parcel be give to child in Scotland last year , and the Trussell Trust ' s " Hunger in Scotland " report show that single parent make up only 2 % of the population but 17 % of those who have go hungry . this be about insufficiency of income . the adult rate of benefit should be restore to single parent under the age of 25 on universal credit , which would be a practical way for the UK Government to support they . do the Minister agree ? I recognise the work that the hon . Lady undertake with the all - party group on food bank . the Government be protect the most vulnerable , with a £ 94 billion support package for household , and we have help nearly 2 million people out of absolute poverty , after housing cost , since 2010 . my constituency be not among the poor in Scotland , but we already have one in 10 child there — in some area , one in three — live in poverty , with two third of they in work family . with the soar food price , sky - high mortgage rate and Edinburgh have the high increase in annual rent in the UK , family be struggle . we know that our Scottish Government be only interested in independence , so will the Minister tell I what the UK Government be go to do for those family ? the Government recognise the anxiety that people feel about rise mortgage , which be why the Prime Minister ' s priority be to halve inflation this year . that be the single good way we can keep cost and interest rate down for people , and we have a clear plan to deliver that . the Chancellor also meet mortgage lender last week and have agree a mortgage charter , cover 75 % of the market . we hope that that will provide reassurance to mortgage holder and other affect by this . Speaker ' s Statement before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I be sure the whole House will wish to join I in pay tribute to John Angeli OBE , Director of Parliamentary Broadcasting , who be leave the House service at the end of this week . during his 12 year as director , John not only oversee the expansion of live video coverage to all public proceeding , but deliver the hybrid capability which enable Parliament to function during lockdown and , of course , make history with President Zelensky be beam into this Chamber . he have more recently bring live subtitle and british Sign Language to our proceeding . I be sure I speak on behalf of the whole House in thank John and wish he all the good for the future . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 28 June . today , we will have the second reading of the Holocaust Memorial Bill . for decade , survivor such as the late Sir Ben Helfgott show extraordinary courage in share their testimony so that we would never forget . I hope the whole House will unite today to get this Bill through and put those testimony at the heart of our democracy for generation to come . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . for three year , since I be elect , I have be campaign to improve health facility in my community . I be pleased to see significant investment in Leicestershire , with £ 14 million for a community diagnostic centre in Hinckley and , as part of a £ 20 billion programme , hospital improvement at the Leicester Royal Infirmary and the Glenfield Hospital . but I be look for a hat - trick of health in Hinckley — I be look for a day case unit . the money be already there but it be tie up in red tape . I have raise this issue with the Health Secretary . will the Prime Minister look to see what he can do , and would he like to come to open the unit next year in Hinckley ? I be delighted that since its opening last month the Hinckley CDC have already deliver more than 300 additional test to the local community . my hon . friend will know that it be for the local health authority to determine how to allocate the NHS budget in their area , but I have no doubt that he will continue to make the case to they for a day case unit in his community . I call the Leader of the Opposition . Mr Speaker , may I join your tribute to John and wish he all the good on behalf of the House ? I also join the Prime Minister in his comment about the holocaust memorial . I would also like to wish Muslims across the country a happy Eid . last week , the Labour party lose Margaret McDonagh , our first female general secretary and a trailblazer in every sense of the word . Margaret provide guidance , leadership and loyal friendship to so many in the Labour movement . it be not long after I start in this job that Margaret be at my door , and I will be forever grateful for the advice and support she give I . we will all miss she terribly . the Prime Minister ' s party spend thousand of pound on advert attack plan to build 300 , 000 new home a year . at the same time , his Housing Minister say that it be Tory party policy to build 300 , 000 new home a year . so be the Prime Minister for build 300 , 000 new home a year or against it ? I remind the right hon . and learn Gentleman of our record since be in office : 2 . 2 million additional home ; housing start double the number we inherit from the Labour party ; more home meet the decent home standard ; housing supply up 10 % in the last year for which we have figure ; and , also in the last year for which we have figure , we see a 20 - year high in the number of first - time buyer . that be a Conservative Government deliver for this country . it be not a difficult question . can he point to a single person , in housing , construction or anywhere , who think that he will actually hit his target of 300 , 000 new home a year ? anyone ? the record be that in the last three year we have deliver almost record number of new home building in every one of those year . he talk about target , so let we be clear : I promise to put local people in control of new housing and I deliver on that policy within week of become Prime Minister . but I be confuse by the right hon . and learn Gentleman , because first the shadow Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , say " community should have control " , but then he say that we should bring target back and disempower local people . I want to give he some advice : I do not think it be local people that be the problem — it ' s the Labour party ' s policy . presumably , if he could have identify a single person who think he would hit his target , he would have tell we . there you have the problem : one minute he say he be for build new house , but the next he be campaign against they . the truth be that far from deliver , since he crumble to his Back Benchers and scrap mandatory target , house building have collapse . he know it , they know it and every expert be tell they that . why do he not just admit it ? he be not go to get anywhere near his target , be he ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman now claim that he support house building , especially on the green belt , but unfortunately — yes . it ' s good that he agree that he do believe that now , but unfortunately for he , the shadow Deputy Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , the shadow Minister for Women , the hon . member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) , the shadow Health Minister , the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , the shadow Justice Minister , the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , the shadow Minister for Defence , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , the shadow Business Minister , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , the shadow Minister for Northern Ireland , the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , and the shadow Minister for Scotland , the hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) be all unite against more house building in their area . I have to say to they that they do not have to worry too much , because he have never actually keep a promise he have make . you can tell from his answer , Mr Speaker , — his non - answer — and his body language that he have actually give up . his failure be not just shatter the dream of those who desperately want to own their own home ; it be also hit those who already have a mortgage . because of the Government ' s economic chaos , mortgage holder will be £ 2 , 900 a year poorer . how can the Government ever look the british people in the eye again and claim to be the party of home ownership ? I do not think he have notice that his shadow Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Wigan , do not actually agree with his new policy of concrete over the green belt . she have be campaign against development in her own constituency . she say she want to " prevent urban sprawl " and " provide … green space for local people . " I think that be quite sensible , but it be classic Labour — say one thing here and do another thing elsewhere . you simply can not trust a word they say . at least he be not claim they be the party of home ownership any more , because we be . he ' s give up . the Prime Minister say he be " 100 % on it " , but his definition of " 100 % on it " be to gently ask the bank to do the right thing . his softly , softly approach , refuse to put mandatory measure in place , risk leave a million household without support . how many will have to lose their home before he will stand up for the people his party have push into economic misery ? in fact , the vast majority of the mortgage market be now cover by the new mortgage charter that the Chancellor have bring in . that be deliver practical help for mortgage holder , allow they to extend their term , switch to interest - only mortgage and save they hundred of pound a month . so instead of scare they , actually there be now practical support in place . it be right that he raise home ownership . that be why we , on the Government Benches , introduce a 95 % mortgage guarantee scheme . it be why we introduce the first home and share ownership scheme to get people on to the housing ladder , and , crucially , it be why we cut stamp duty . now what we see be the high number of first - time buyer in 20 year — twice the number that the Labour party ever manage . it be , " housing crisis , what crisis ? " , with this Prime Minister . he must be the only person in the country who think that enough house have be build in the past 13 year . whether it be those dream of get the key to their first home , or those already with mortgage , the ambition of family across the country have be crush by his fail Tory Government : house building at its low rate since the war because he can not stand up to his own party ; a Tory mortgage bombshell because they crash the economy ; and million leave without support because he will not make lender put family first . rather than lecture the rest of the country on hold their nerve , why do he not try to locate his ? as always , the right hon . and learn Gentleman have not take the time to understand the detail of what we be do , so I be happy to explain it again . it be right that we provide support for mortgage owner , which be why we improve the generosity of the support for Mortgage Interest scheme . it be why we have introduce the new mortgage charter , which , by the way , go much far than the Labour party ' s policy on protect mortgage holder . on house building , we be proud to protect the green belt and invest million more in develop brownfield site . the simple truth be that that be what I say I would do , and that be what we have deliver . that be the difference between we : I deliver on my promise , the Leader of the opposition just break his . labour - run Kirklees Council ' s local plan be see hundred of home be build on greenfield site , but the agree developer levy , the section 106 agreement , which be supposedly for local infrastructure spending , seem to be disappear into a black hole . do the Prime Minister agree that agree infrastructure levy from developer should not be go into a general slush fund ? they should be spend on local road , local school and local health service for the community impact by those development . my hon . friend raise an excellent point . that be why the Government be reform the section 106 payment system to ensure that new development be match by new infrastructure . the current system see far too little of developer ’ profit go to build new school , hospital or transport infrastructure . it be also too slow and plague by uncertainty and that particularly hamper small local developer . it will be replace by a new , non - negotiable , locally determined infrastructure levy , which will deliver exactly what my hon . friend and other want to see — investment in local community . I call the SNP Leader . I wish to start by pay tribute to SNP legend Winnie Ewing and to the former manager of Scotland man ' s national team , Craig Brown , who both sadly pass in recent day , and I send good wish to all Muslims who be celebrate Eid Mubarak . on Sunday , the Prime Minister patronise the public when he tell they that , in the face of ever - increase mortgage bill , they simply need to hold their nerve . what a nerve ! may I ask he , the near billionaire , when be the last time that he struggle to pay a bill ? mortgage rate be rise because of inflation . that be the root cause , which be why it be absolutely the right policy to halve inflation and reduce it back to target . that do mean that we have to make difficult decision . that do mean that we have to be patient while those decision actually have an impact . in the meantime , as I be explain previously , we be take practical step to support mortgage holder across the United Kingdom , particularly through the new Support for Mortgage Interest scheme and the new mortgage charter . that answer confirm what we already know — this Prime Minister be out of touch and the Tory party be soon to be out of time . what the public really want be change but , in a week when the Conservative party and indeed the Labour party both refuse to accept proposal for public sector pay rise , while at the same time accept the economic damage of Brexit , be it not the case that Westminster offer the people neither real change , nor real hope for the future ? the hon . Gentleman just expose the complete economic illiteracy of the SNP ' s position . his first question talk about the challenge pose to ordinary family by high interest rate , cause by high inflation . what do his next question do ? support a policy that would increase government borrowing and make the situation bad . that just demonstrate , completely candidly , why the SNP ' s approach to economic management be simply not fit for anyone in the United Kingdom . local police station be a key part of community such as Aldridge in my constituency , which be why I continue to make the case to labour ' s police and crime commissioner for save and strengthen the role of Aldridge police station , rather than force it to close . do the Prime Minister agree that any such closure would be reckless , and that police and crime commissioner should be work with local community and local police team to provide great certainty , particularly give the extra 1 , 376 police officer this Government have put into the west midland ? I be pleased to hear about the extra police officer the Government have fund in my right hon . friend ' s community , but I be concerned to hear about the plan closure of Aldridge police station . I thank she for raise such an important issue . I know it be one on which she be champion her constituent . as she will know , unfortunately , that be a decision of the locally elect labour police and crime commissioner , and I join she in urge they to think again . Diolch yn fawr , Lefarydd . the Prime Minister ' s solution to inflation be to push family into poverty while let corporate profit pile up . economic illiteracy ? the International Monetary Fund say this week that the way to cut inflation be for company to cut their profit margin . it be corporate greed that be fuel inflation , not worker ' need for fair play . can he explain to the one in five people in Wales face hunger because they can not afford to buy decent food why they must pay his price for lower inflation ? actually , my right hon . friend the Chancellor meet with all the economic regulator this morning and they will be make an announcement later about their plan to ensure fairness of pricing in supply chain to ease the burden on consumer . I be glad the right hon . Lady bring up the IMF when it come to tackle inflation . the IMF , in its word , strongly endorse our plan to halve inflation and call our step " decisive and responsible " . as my right hon . friend know , I have be liaise closely with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and with the Treasury with regard to the terrible news of Woking Council ' s recent section 114 notice . do he agree that , in this scenario , the vulnerable must be protect and local councillor of all party must work together to try to put the council ' s finance back on the right track ? I know my hon . friend be a great champion for his woke resident . as he know , the Secretary of State for Levelling up have intervene in that authority and appoint commissioner to ensure that decision be take that provide the good outcome for resident , include the most vulnerable , and for the public purse . I agree with he that local councillor should be work together with the commissioner to put the council ' s finance in order . the commissioner will submit their first report to the Secretary of State set out progress on the council ' s path to improvement and financial sustainability , and I look forward with he to see further progress . the Prime Minister have have responsibility for the UK economy now for 1 , 323 day , and he have deliver — he have deliver the large national peacetime debt ever , the large tax burden since the second world war , the high core inflation since 1991 , the fast interest rate rise since 1989 and the big fall in living standard in our history . will he stop lecture my constituent about hold their nerve , ditch the lame excuse and admit that he be literally the bad person to be lead this country through a cost of living crisis , because he create it ? again , what do we hear from the Labour party ? only idea that would make the situation far worse . it be as simple as that . the hon . Gentleman have sit there and support plan to borrow ten of billion of pound more . that would make inflation bad . he have sit there and say that we should not stand up to unaffordable union pay demand . that would make the situation bad . and he have sit there and support plan to not exploit our domestic source of energy , imperille our energy security . those be all thing that would make the situation bad for british family not just today but for year into the future . this Conservative Government will keep do the right thing to support they . my constituent rely on many nearby hospital : Milton Keynes , where the Government have commit to a new woman and child ' s hospital ; Stoke Mandeville , which have just complete the build of a new child ' s A & E ; but also Wycombe , where infrastructure and maintenance issue in the age tower be prevent about 2 , 000 operation from go ahead every year . my local NHS trust have a plan for a new £ 200 million clinical centre at Wycombe Hospital . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister work with I and Buckinghamshire colleague to make that a reality ? although , as my hon . friend know , we be no long invite further scheme to join the new hospital programme , I can tell he that new scheme will be consider through the rolling programme of capital investment in hospital infrastructure . that will secure the building of new hospital beyond 2030 , and it will mean investment to upgrade the NHS estate across the country . future plan for that will be set out in spending review and fiscal event , but in the meantime , I know that he will continue to make the impassioned case for Wycombe Hospital , and I join he in that . hundred of steelworker be outside Parliament today , and some be in the Gallery , to call on the Prime Minister to act now to back our vital steel industry before it be too late . will he confirm today that he will match the ambition of the Labour party , and our international competitor , to deliver competitive energy price , invest in green steel production , use UK steel in our procurement system , and protect we from dirty steel import by introduce climate measure ? when will he get on with protect and support the industry ? we be proud to support the steel industry and value the contribution that it make to this country . that be why we put in place the energy - intensive industry exemption scheme , which provide hundred of million of pound of support to steel company for their energy bill ; we have also introduce the industrial energy transformation fund so that company can apply for capital grant to help they with the transition and be take forward plan in the Treasury for carbon border adjustment mechanism to ensure a level playing field . that be also why , during the pandemic , I step in to support financially a steel company in Wales . sadly , despite five year of lobbying , the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association international branch will leave the United Kingdom . as you know , Mr Speaker , that be of great concern to the House and , although it be perhaps a little niche for our constituent , it be important . the cpa need special status , but the Government have not grant that by way of a short Bill or an amendment to an exist Bill . could the Prime Minister , at this late stage , this month , do something about that because otherwise the association will be go , never to come back ? the United Kingdom value the work of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have make it clear that he do not want the cpa international to relocate . he write to it in March to confirm that official from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office would work with the cpa to find a mutually acceptable solution to the status issue , and I look forward to see progress . Mr Speaker , your constituent and mine have be make a promise by the Prime Minister : inflation at or below 5 % by the end of this year . so let I ask the Prime Minister what will happen if he fail to meet that promise . will it be yet more rant on about the Labour party , or will it be the general election that my constituent crave ? no , we be stick to the course of bring inflation down . what the Labour party need to understand be that that require make difficult and tough decision ; it require prioritise ; it require be able to say no when people come ask you to borrow more money . those be the type of responsible decision that I and the Conservative Government will make because they be the right one for the country . for over 160 year , Southport pier have be at the centre of our visitor economy , welcome visitor from far and wide , include from Chorley , Mr Speaker . it have stand the test of time , but the mismanagement of Labour - control Sefton Council have close our pier . business be concern , and the impact on tourism will be huge . will the Prime Minister condemn the council ' s action and support my campaign and effort to work with this Conservative Government to get our pier open ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s commitment to the important community asset in his constituency , such as the historic grade II - list Southport pier . I be pleased that he have succeed in get the Government to provide £ 2 million to undertake improvement as part of the coastal community fund , and that come alongside the landmark £ 35 . 5 million town deal for Southport — the second large town deal in the country . this be my first opportunity to put a question to the Prime Minister for the resident of the City of Chester , so why do the Prime Minister think it be acceptable for sewage to be pump into the beautiful River Dee , which flow through Chester , for the next 27 year ? of course it be not acceptable , and that be why this Government have go far than any other in tackle the issue , commit to monitor 100 % of storm overflow and to an investment programme of £ 56 billion to upgrade infrastructure , enshrine strict target in law , and introduce unlimited fine for water company . but when it come to talk about those policy in this House , the Labour party could not even be bother to turn up and vote for they . later today , Parliament will welcome apprentice from around the UK who work in the aerospace industry , and I be very much look forward to meet Callum and Britney , who be apprentice at Collins Aerospace in my constituency . will the Prime Minister join I in celebrate apprenticeship in the aerospace industry and encourage colleague to attend and meet their apprentice ? I join my hon . friend in celebrate everyone do an apprenticeship and in encourage everyone to go and meet their apprentice later today . I pay tribute to Callum and Britney in particular . my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of the aerospace industry , particularly because of our new defence co - operation agreement with Italy and Japan to build a new generation of fighter aircraft , which will create thousand of new job across the country , many of which will come through apprenticeship . that be an example of this Conservative Government provide opportunity for the next generation . last year , 1 . 7 million child miss more than 10 % of their schooling , 125 , 000 be absent more than they be in school , and a further 140 , 000 be completely miss from formal schooling . this safeguarding and educational catastrophe be happen on the Prime Minister ' s watch . yesterday , the Schools Minister tell the Education Committee that primary legislation be require to initiate a national register of child miss from education so that we can find out where they be . will the Prime Minister commit to bring forward the necessary legislation as a matter of urgency to combat this crisis for our child ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that child miss school be a tragedy and be incredibly damaging for educational outcome , which be why during the pandemic and afterwards we invest £ 5 billion to help child catch up with lose learning . it be important that we continue to deliver on those plan , and we will of course ensure that we work with the sector to have more child attend school more often . economic recovery and reconstruction will be vital to Ukraine when it come to rebuild a free and sovereign nation . so will my right hon . friend help to galvanise the expertise of the UK ' s private sector to strengthen Ukraine ' s recovery and economic prospect after this devastating war ? time and again Ukraine have show its ability to rapidly harness innovation and creativity , and I know that its economic recovery will be no different . my hon . friend be right to highlight that private sector expertise and investment will be critical to that recovery . I be pleased that over 400 world - lead company pledge to back Ukraine ' s reconstruction at the successful recovery conference that the UK host the other week . we be do our part as well , with a $ 3 billion World Bank loan guarantee on top of all our other investment . I think the conference show that there be enormous momentum across the world to support Ukraine ' s recovery , and that recovery and ambition be be lead by the United Kingdom . a university student in Lewisham East have see her rent rise by £ 200 a month due to the mortgage rate increase . she be now at risk of homelessness and can not return to the family home . she have no choice but to use food bank , even though she have two part - time job . not only be she fall behind in her study ; she be fall far into debt and fall into depression . what do the Prime Minister say to constituent like mine who be pay the dual price of this Government ' s cost of live crisis and their mortgage rate crisis ? we have take significant action to help family across the country , most notably by tax the windfall profit of energy company and use that money to pay around half the energy bill of a typical family , include all of the hon . Lady ' s constituent . that support be worth £ 1 , 500 , and I be pleased that energy bill be forecast to fall by £ 430 when the price cap reset in a couple of day . beyond that , there be considerable support for the most vulnerable in our society , include £ 900 in cost of living payment for those on universal credit and additional support for pensioner and disabled people . that be what we will continue to do . we be head into the fifth week of Sandwell Labour ' s refuse strike . we have have fly picket , report of the GMB block ambulance worker from get out of their depot as a result of its picket line , and a police and crime commissioner encourage the police not to police it . I ask my right hon . friend to convene a meeting urgently so that we can resolve this , and perhaps he will join I in tell Labour politician — one in particular — to grow a spine and put people before their paymaster . More ! order . we have do very well — don ' t spoil it now . my hon . friend put it very well : he have illustrate exactly the issue . the Labour party be unable to stand up to its union paymaster and back our plan to introduce minimum service and safety level in critical industry . that be the type of practical action that support work family , and it be action that the Labour party be not strong enough to support . after the event in Russia at the weekend , it be unclear what the future hold for the Wagner Group , but the catalogue of crime it have commit across Africa and the middle east and , of course , in Ukraine can never be wash away . despite all that , the Government do not yet have a permanent Cabinet Office official to co - ordinate all the organ of Government to pursue the criminal in the Wagner Group . will the Prime Minister appoint one and , crucially , will he fund the collection of evidence of Wagner Group war crime that have be commit across the world , so that no matter what happen , these criminal can be bring to justice in future ? we have consistently condemn the Wagner Group , and we carefully monitor its action in Ukraine and the wide world that the hon . Gentleman have mention . we have designate both the Wagner Group and its leader under our sanction regime , and we support international mechanism that hold individual mercenary in the Wagner Group to account for violation of international law , but I reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be also work very closely with our partner to counter the malign use of such proxy , both by Russia and more generally across the continent . on Monday night , an illegal Traveller encampment be establish in Bretton Park . on Saturday , the much - love Bretton festival be due to take place in that park . this House pass legislation that give police more power to tackle illegal encampment . will the Prime Minister make it clear from the Dispatch Box that he expect the police to use those power on these encampment , which blight public space and public park in place such as Peterborough ? we absolutely recognise the misery that unauthorised encampment can cause to local community . that be why we have deliver on our manifesto commitment to give police the power they need to tackle those people in unauthorised encampment who be cause harm . of course , how the police use those power be an operational matter for chief constable , but we would not have legislate for they if we do not expect chief constable to use they . I be tell that Home Office official be liaise regularly with the National Police Chiefs ' Council on this exact matter . rise — final question — Martin Docherty - Hughes . in the past couple of day , yet again we have be remind that a Member of the other House be appoint contrary to the recommendation of MI5 . we learn from a Channel 4 film that even the monarch be ask to be involve because whitehall official be so opposed , give that the person be deem a security risk to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . so I ask the Prime Minister : do he agree with MI5 , or do he agree with his predecessor that that peer should still be in the other House ? Mr Speaker , for obvious reason I will talk in more general term . the House of Lords Appointments Commission vet Cross - Bench and party political life peerage nomination to the House of Lords and , where appropriate , seek advice from Government Departments and agency . the House of Lords Appointments Commission have previously undertake that , be a Prime Minister to recommend a peerage against the commission ' s formal advice , it would write publicly to the relevant parliamentary Select Committee . that complete Prime Minister ' s question . we come now to the urgent question . [ interruption . ] if people could stop have conversation in the middle of the Chamber , that would be helpful , Mr Slaughter . Water industry : Financial Resilience ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs if she will make a statement on the financial resilience of the water industry . water be what make life possible on our planet , and it be essential for our health and wellbeing , as well as for our economy , include the production of food and clean energy . the Government be take significant step to ensure that the water industry be deliver the outcome that bill payer expect and deserve . water company have invest £ 190 billion since privatisation in 1989 . in April , the Government publish the plan for water , bring together more investment , strong regulation and tough enforcement capacity for regulator in relation to those who pollute . Ofwat and the Government take the financial resilience of the water sector very seriously . ofwat be the independent economic regulator for the water sector and have responsibility for its financial resilience . the sector as a whole be financially resilient . ofwat continue to monitor the financial position of all the key water and waste water company . ofwat report annually on the sector ' s financial resilience , and Ofwat ' s late annual monitor financial resilience report show that the water sector be financially resilient . market confidence in the sector be demonstrate by new acquisition , such as Pennon ' s purchase of Bristol Water , and by shareholder be willing to inject new capital . Ofwat have take step in recent year to strengthen the sector ' s position . that include action to update the ringfencing provision in water company licence to well safeguard the interest of customer , and bar water company from make payout to shareholder and remove money or asset from the business if they lose their investment grade credit rating . Ofwat have outline that water company must be transparent about how executive pay and dividend align to the delivery of service to customer , include environmental performance . since privatisation , total capital investment have outstrip dividend by 250 % . on 20 March 2023 , Ofwat announce new power that will enable it to take enforcement action against water company that do not link dividend payment to performance for both customer and the environment . in December 2022 , Ofwat strengthen its power on executive pay award by set out that shareholder , and not customer , will fund pay award where company do not demonstrate that their decision or pay award reflect overall performance . we support Ofwat ' s work , and we urge all water company to take this opportunity to review their policy . the scale of Government commitment to the water industry be highlight by the integrate plan for water , and by our commitment to the financial resilience of the sector in deliver for customer and the environment . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question , but it be a concern that the Secretary of State do not proactively make a statement to the House on an issue of such importance . indeed , where be the Secretary of State ? one of the large water company in Britain be potentially go to go to the wall , and the Secretary of State be miss in action . it be clear to anyone look on that a culture that allow vital investment in end the sewage scandal and tackle water leak to be sacrifice in favour of a goldrush for shareholder be never sustainable . just last year , as raw human sewage be be pump out across the country , £ 1 . 4 billion be pay out to shareholder . now , all that be warn about be come to pass : leak be lead to water shortage ; sewage dumping pollute our river , lake and sea ; and the only thing on the up be debt , at £ 60 billion . the conservative party ' s cycle of privatise profit , usually for multibillion - pound foreign sovereign wealth fund , and nationalise risk be not sustainable , and neither be it a fair deal for work people . the news we be see be the result of the conservative party ' s fail " profit above public interest " experiment , in which it hand over the water industry at a knock - down price to private enterprise , together with the entire infrastructure serve the nation . that be almost unique to water . for instance , when rail be privatised , the track be not sell off . with water , however , the lot be hand over , with few safeguard for our national interest , our national security or bill payer . when be the Minister ' s Department first make aware of the financial situation at Thames Water ? have her Department have any reason to believe that those responsible at Thames Water would not be able to meet their licence condition or legal obligation ? if this mean a taxpayer - fund bail - out , how much will that cost and how will it be pay for ? what assessment have she make of the liability of UK pension fund that be invest in Thames Water , and in other water company consider to be at risk ? give where we be , will she confirm her confidence in the financial regulator ? finally , give what we see with Thames Water today , do she have concern about any other water company , or do she consider this to be an isolated case ? in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , we have our individual portfolio , and I be the water Minister . the Secretary of State have full confidence in her Ministers when send they to the Dispatch Box . the shadow Minister raise the issue of debt . for information , debt to equity fall last year by 4 % in the water industry , actually make it more resilient . since privatisation , capital investment in the water industry have be 84 % high than it be pre - privatisation — we need to get that out there and on the table . in term of Thames Water , it be not for I to comment on the individual financial position of a water company . we have an independent regulator that be do that ; indeed , that be what the regulator , Ofwat , be for . water company be commercial entity , and it be for the company and its investor to resolve any issue . the Government , of course , be confident that Ofwat , as the economic regulator of the water industry , be work closely with any company that be face financial stress . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . sewage treatment plant be all too often overwhelmed at time of heavy rain . as well as instal stormwater tank , such as the new 4 million litre stormwater tank in Scarborough , do the Minister agree that we should do more to encourage homeowner to harvest grey water , which can buffer the effect of heavy rain , and use that for such thing as flush the toilet ? I thank my right hon . friend for broaden the scope of the debate . we be in discussion with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — many of these issue involve work with other Departments — on grey water harvesting and well use the rain that do fall . a farmer in Devon whom I visit be collect all the water from his farm building roof to supply his animal . in assess , as the Minister have explain , the resilience of the water industry , what assessment be she make of the impact on UK pension fund if a major company such as Thames Water fail , as be be widely suggest in the press ? there be a structure and a process for work through this matter . it be up to the individual water company and the regulator work with they to ensure that they be resilient . that be why Ofwat report annually on how resilient each water company be . if that flag any issue , Ofwat work closely with they , because we need our water company to be fully function . we need to attract investment — a huge sum of money have be invest since privatisation , as I mention early — in infrastructure to give our customer the kind of service they deserve . we should also be mindful that it be not all pile on to customer ; we have to share the load . it be worth make the House realise that it be the Opposition who vote against the Environment Act 2021 , which give Ofwat more power . can my hon . friend assure I that the water regulator Ofwat will be able to clamp down on excessive cash payout and ensure that water company put their customer first ? I thank my hon . friend for point that out . he be absolutely right : whatever the opposition say today , one of the measure they do not vote for in the Environment Act 2021 be to enable Ofwat to hold water company to account where they do not demonstrate a link between dividend and performance . they must have sound performance and be perform for their customer , otherwise they can not pay out their dividend . the staggering complacency we be hear from the Minister will come as no comfort to my constituent who be flood out three year ago in the west London flood , which be the second 100 - year event in less than a decade . if Ofwat have be do such a good job in hold the water company to account , as she be now apparently tell we , why be we in this situation ? what exactly have Ofwat be do ? it have to be remember that privatisation occur in 1989 . we have have a succession of different government during that time , and it have be this Government who have accelerate clamp down on water company and open up transparency . the hon . Lady ask what Ofwat have do , and I will name just a few thing . since 2020 , Ofwat have update the licence so that if a water company lose its investment credit rating , it be bar from make payout to shareholder . in July 2022 , it set out additional proposal to increase financial resilience , include company have a strong credit rating . in March , it announce that it would take enforcement action against water company that do not link dividend payment to performance . we have do more than any Government before to ensure that we have a fully functioning , strong regulator . on financial resilience , have the Minister take the opportunity to consider the hotchpotch of policy come from Opposition Front Benchers on the subject ? under their prescription , they would seek to take all the profit of water company to invest in capital expenditure . that would undermine the financial resilience of those company that rely on private capital for investment in tackle this problem . in the one part of the country where Labour do have responsibility — Wales — have she notice that the sewerage overflow be almost double the rate per overflow pipe as in England ? I thank my right hon . friend for point that out ; I can not support more strongly what he say . we have a private system , and Ofwat say that it be financially resilient . we need investment in these company to make they function properly . obviously , we need to hold the company to account , but we need to see enormous investment . everything in the Government ' s plan for water , include the storm overflow discharge reduction plan , be fully cost . we be not pull the wool over people ' s eye ; we be tell they clearly what this will mean and how it will deliver the water service that we need . Thames Water , which be on the verge of go under , provide a quarter of the population with their water supply . when be the Minister tell about its financial plight ? what be the plan if the bad come to the bad and it do go under ? the hon . member be right that Thames Water supply an enormous part of our population . Ofwat have be work closely with Thames Water , as it do all water company , and the Government work with Ofwat , give it our strategic policy statement on what its priority will be . overall , the water company be consider resilient , and much work be go on behind the scene with Thames Water to ensure that customer will not be affect . if necessary , there be a process in place to move we to the next stage . Swindon resident will be concern about the future of Thames Water , so I ask my hon . friend please to keep I and colleague update on any issue relate to that . underlie this issue , Labour ' s model will clearly never work — we must understand that only the private sector will be able to invest . [ interruption . ] Labour member bleat now , but they do nothing about it when they be in government . be the point not that where we have in effect a private monopoly , the regulator must be as effective as possible ? will my hon . friend do everything possible to ensure that Ofwat be work in the full interest of customer ? aspect of its operation do not seem to pass that test . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend . Thames Water be a big water company that deliver on a wide scale . ofwat be work very closely with the company on its plan , which will be look over and submit , and account will be submit in due course , so that we have a resilient pathway . customer , include his constituent , should rest assure that both their water and wastewater supply will be protect . this privatised industry know that , at the end of the day , the banker of last resort be the british taxpayer . that be exactly where we be with Thames Water , which have be take profit for the last 35 year and not invest for the future . regardless of what go on before , we must have investment in what be in front of the industry , but Thames Water have fail to plan ahead . it have take money but not do the job expect of it while be in charge of such an essential public service . what will the Government do to protect consumer and ensure that we plan ahead for the industry ? Ofwat be the independent regulator and , as the hon . Member will know , the Government direct it through the strategic policy statement . it be Ofwat ' s job to ensure that in the price review , when the water company submit their plan — they be go over the draft plan now — they demonstrate that they will deliver on the Government ' s target on storm overflow , leakage and demand reduction . it be for Ofwat to ensure that company will be resilient in deliver that infrastructure . there be a firm structure in place . Ofwat also constantly monitor company ' gearing — debt - to - equity — level , and the Government be confident that the regulator be take reasonable measure to challenge company to reduce those gearing level where appropriate . about a quarter of the country ' s economic output be in sector under regulator , include the water industry . with Ofwat and in other sector with Ofgem and the Financial Conduct Authority , we have see regulator not perform to the standard that the public , or indeed industry , would expect . if we be honest , we in this House and in Parliament do not have the toolkit to assess regulator ’ performance on a systemic basis year in , year out . will my hon . friend work with ministerial colleague to see whether we can improve the regular oversight of regulator such as Ofwat so that we can take a more rounded view on such issue , rather than have they come through urgent question as bring by the opposition ? I thank my hon . friend for that . it be essential that we have fully function regulator . since the Government come to power , Ofwat have do an enormous amount to streamline what it do , improve transparency , change licence and make change so that dividend be not pay if any environmental damage be be cause . the Government have direct that through the strategic policy statement . indeed , our target will ensure that the regulator enable the water company to put the right measure in place . he be right , however , that one should never be complacent , and if thing need to be improve through the regulator , they should happen . but I assure he that a big effort be be make . many of my constituent be hugely worried about report of Thames Water be on the brink and what that could mean for their bill . Thames Water have be manage appallingly : leak have not be deal with , sewage have be continually dump and the former chief executive officer Sarah Bentley need to be ask to forgo her bonus . all the while , the Government have be miss in action . why be the Government yet again run to catch up — nothing in the Minister ' s statement give confidence that they have a grip — with our constituent pay the price ? where water company underperform and do not meet their target , a process be in place whereby basically they have to credit the money back to their customer . last year , £ 143 million be credit back in that respect . so the regulator do have the tool to do that . it have tighten up so many of its measure , all of which will affect all the water company . [ Official Report , 10 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 1mc . ] the Minister will not be able to comment on Thames Water ' s finance in detail , but can she assure my constituent , who will be really worried , that , whatever happen , their day - to - day service will be protect and the much - need upgrade will still be deliver ? I thank my hon . friend for that . he be right that customer come first , and Thames Water customer will be assure their water supply and wastewater service . I be happy to meet he to discuss that . resident in Twickenham , Teddington and the Hamptons will be extremely worried to hear that Thames Water be on the brink of collapse , but they be also feed up to the back tooth with this company . not only do it pump sewage into our precious River Thames , but recently we have see sewage flood our street at time of flooding from rainfall , and there be now plan to pump treat sewage into the Thames at time of drought . that be indicative of the company ' s underinvestment in fix leak and be strip to the bare bone while line executive ' pocket . all the while , the Government have be miss in action and the regulator have fail . will the Minister back the Liberal Democrats ’ proposal to reform water company into public good company , transform their board and priority in the interest of the environment and consumer ? I will highlight the Thames super - sewer — it will be ready to open in the not - too - distant future — which be a tremendous project for the people of London , include many of her constituent . we have a privatised system , whose financial resilience , as I have report , have increase rather than decrease in the last year . these company attract money from investor so that we can get what we need . the Government have cost plan . the Liberal Democrats have no cost plan for what they suggest they might do with the water company , nor plan for where the money will come from . it be worth point out to opposition party that 93 % of all UK coastal bathing water meet good or excellent condition . in North Norfolk we have lose three blue flag beach , which go from excellent to good . but guess what ? there be not a single reason why they lose that flag . under the Environment Agency ' s mark , it look like it be down to not combine sewage overflow but entirely natural phenomenon . could the Minister help I get my blue flag back and hold the Environment Agency to task , to ensure that it have a proper testing regime that transparently show that we have excellent bathing water quality all over North Norfolk ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue of bathing water quality . since privatisation we have virtually the good quality water come out of our tap of almost anywhere in the world . we also have phenomenal result for our bathing water area — 93 % be class as good or excellent . he have concern about his area , but I hope those beach will soon be back up to blue flag status . the Environment Agency work closely on individual case where concern have be highlight . I be happy to put he in touch with the Environment Agency or work with he to find out what those individual case be , so that we can get those beach back up to the fantastic standard that they deserve . today , not for the first time , most of my constituent have little or no water supply . two year ago , not for the first time , hundred of my constituent have their home flood with raw sewage . year after year , Thames Water have fail its customer while obscenely reward its management and shareholder . no one will miss the asset stripper at Thames Water if it go under . all we want be work infrastructure and good customer service at a reasonable cost . be that too much to ask ? that be what we want for all our customer . that be why we have launch our plan for water to pull everything together to ensure that we deal with any pollution incident , water supply issue and the future of the water industry . it be why we have set our target and produce our storm sewage overflow plan , and why the water company will have to spend £ 56 billion on capital investment by 2050 to address that . every water company , include Thames Water , have to make an action plan for each of its storm sewage overflow . Thames Water will do that . when they be privatised , water company have all the debt write off , so they start with zero . since then , they have borrow £ 53 billion , much of which have be use to help pay £ 72 billion in dividend . the investment have be make by borrow and put it on to customer ’ bill . now , the rating agency S & P have negative outlook for two third of the UK water company it rate , because they be over - leveraged and take out too much debt in an era of low interest , which they now have to pay back . this be not a triumph but a huge problem for the resilience of our water industry . what will the Minister do when water company start fall over ? for information , Thames Water itself have not pay any dividend for the last six year . Ofwat will rightly hold company to account when they do not clearly demonstrate the link between dividend and performance . we make that possible through the landmark Environment Act . [ Official Report , 10 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 2mc . ] I want to bring the Minister back to the figure we have just hear . water company have no debt when they be privatised . since then , they have borrow £ 53 billion , and much of that have be use to help pay £ 72 billion in dividend . meanwhile , we have an appalling sewage scandal , particularly in the south - east of England . the fail company Southern Water , which my constituent have no choice but to rely on , be consider raise bill by £ 279 per year by 2030 , largely to pay for the investment that it should have be make in previous year . do that not show that the privatisation of water be a serious mistake that need to be permanently rectify ? privatisation have enable clean and plentiful water to come out of our tap . it have unlock £ 190 billion of funding to invest in the industry . that be the equivalent of £ 5 billion annually , and be double what we have pre - privatisation . I be not say that there be not still a lot of scope for improvement . I have stand at this Dispatch Box many time , as have the Secretary of State , to say that some action of water company be completely unacceptable . that be why we have introduce the storm overflow plan and our plan for water . as two member have say , funding and loan to the water company be a huge issue , as that be where they have pay their dividend from . on shareholder , we have foreign investor take huge amount of money away from this country , and we need well fund manager who be able to assess where they put their money . they should be hold accountable , too . Ofwat have not be do what it be suppose to do . I believe that the chief executive of Ofwat apply for a job at Thames Water . that show what the company be do and how Ofwat work with they — rather than scrutinise they , people be look for the next job . we have to stop that and stop my constituent pay more for water . they need decent water in their home and in the environment around they . that be what we want the Government to ensure . this Tory policy have fail for year . I be not sure what the question be . we want the same thing : value for customer , and clean and plentiful water . we want to hold the water company to account . we want they to invest the money need to deliver the right service . that be why we have a plan for water , our target and the measure in the Environment Act . it be why the regulator Ofwat have take all the action I mention to increase the transparency of water company and to ensure that money be not be pay out if there be any environmental impact or performance negativity . in the last year , a number of my constituent on the Westfield estate have have their home and garden flood with raw sewage . Yorkshire Water accept that it be its sewage , but do not accept responsibility to help with the clean - up . will the Minister look at the legal position to ensure that water company be hold accountable ? in the meantime , we should put pressure on Yorkshire Water and other to pay for the clean - up that my constituent be have to fund themselves . the hon . Gentleman will know that we have put huge pressure on the water company , which now have to invest £ 56 billion in infrastructure to deal with sewage issue . if he want to meet I to talk about that issue , I will be happy to . back in January I ask the water Minister whether she think that the current system of regulation be fit for purpose , and she say yes . I ask she again : do she still think that it be ? yes . water company be sell with no debt when they be privatise in 1989 . in fact , they be give a £ 1 . 5 billion green dowry by the Government . since then , they have take on borrowing of £ 60 . 6 billion , divert income from customer bill to pay dividend and interest payment . as a result , water bill have increase by upwards of 40 % in real term . do the Minister honestly think that consumer hail privatisation as a success ? ultimately , the customer pay for investment in the industry , but over a very long period , as the hon . Lady will know . if a company do not pay out dividend it would struggle to get access to finance to fund future investment . that would limit the level of investment and have an impact on future customer . company have to pay up front for a lot of that investment , because they need to secure a large amount of funding to pay for it . to avoid customer bill increase drastically to pay for that , company have to secure the money by raise debt or equity . she know how it work . the regulator have to ensure that that system be fully function , the water company be resilient and we have all the resilient water supply that we require . it have be report that the company be draw up their business plan for 2025 to 2030 and that , on average , they be look at a 25 % increase in bill . give what we have hear today , would billpayer in my constituency not think that rather than pay extra to water company , they may as well just flush their money down the drain for all the good it will do to improve water quality , service and investment in infrastructure ? all those plan be be assess right now . the draft plan go to Ofwat , where they be analyse with a fine - toothed comb . all the thing I have mention today will be scrutinise , so that we can deliver the infrastructure that be need and have the clean and plentiful water supply we require as well as a clean and healthy environment , with no undue impact on customer bill . all those thing have to be take into account to deliver the water supply that the people we meet and the people we serve deserve . the british public should not be ask to cover the cost of failure by the water monopoly and their shareholder . they have borrow extensively to pay dividend while fail to make necessary investment in infrastructure and resilience . do the Minister agree that if the Government be compel to take Thames Water into public ownership , it should stay in public hand ? I be not aware of the situation the hon . Gentleman be refer to . Ofwat be work very closely with Thames Water to ensure that the business be viable , that customer be not impact , and that water supply and waste water service be deliver . as I mention , Ofwat have strengthen many measure so that we have a much more resilient industry in the future . indeed , those change and the fall in the debt to equity ratio demonstrate that we do have a more resilient industry . we have see bonus and dividend put ahead of investment in infrastructure or maintain sufficient reserve . our area of Devon and Somerset be cover by South West Water ; the company have pay out £ 112 million in dividend this year , despite have just £ 144 million in reserve , which be £ 2 . 5 billion less than it have two year ago . this week , a water firm chief executive officer have resign , but no Conservative Minister have ever take responsibility . when will a Conservative Minister finally take responsibility and get a grip , or step aside ? as the hon . Gentleman know , Ofwat have announce new measure to enable it to take action against water company that do not link dividend payment to performance . that be just not happen . I think he need to look again at some of the stat he have just quote , because I think they might relate to the wide Pennon Group . I have just visit South West Water to have a really forensic look at its system and how it deliver water . that be what we do with our water company . it be Ofwat ' s job to hold water company to account , and it have just get measure through the Treasury so that it have another £ 11 . 3 million to tackle enforcement . I thank the Minister for her answer . we be ever mindful that house building be important , and development opportunity be critical to the future as well , so with developer be charge more and more to connect to the network but face delay in those connection be instal , what plan do the Minister have to make the connection system for new development more affordable ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important issue . we always have be mindful of cost , not just to customer through their bill but to developer build house . we be work closely with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on a range of measure and on its planning guidance , so that we can tackle a range of issue connect to water , work with developer on thing like rainwater harvesting and sustainable urban drainage system , which will really help the whole of our water infrastructure . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I think the Minister may have inadvertently mislead the House . she say clearly that Thames Water have not be pay out dividend . the reality be that Thames Water have not be pay out dividend in the usual way , but it do pay dividend last year to the parent company , so it have be pay out dividend . do the Minister wish to respond ? yes , Mr Speaker . I will check the wording , because I would hate to mislead the House . if I have inadvertently say something incorrect , I will happily put it straight on the record . right . Mental Health In - patient Services : improve Safety with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on improve safety in mental health in - patient service across England . before do so , I want to thank all the right hon . and hon . member from across the country who have campaign tirelessly on behalf of their constituent to improve mental health care . too many people have experience care in mental health in - patient setting that have be well below the high standard that we all deserve when we be at our most vulnerable . I would also like to put on record my sincere condolence to the family and friend of those who have lose their life . first , I will update the House on the independent inquiry into mental health in - patient care across NHS trust in Essex between 2000 and 2020 . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) for table a Westminster Hall debate on the Essex mental health inquiry early this year . she and colleague , include our hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) and our right hon . friend the Members for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , all speak passionately about the need to get justice for patient and their family . I know that my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) also table an Adjournment debate on mental health in - patient care in Essex before the independent inquiry be launch in 2021 . I also pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) and my hon . friend the Members for Clacton ( Giles Watling ) , for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , and for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for their determined campaigning on behalf of their constituent . of course , we should all remember the important contribution of the former Member for Southend West , and a great friend to many across this house , the late Sir David Amess . he table a Westminster Hall debate on mental health service in Essex back in 2014 , and he be a passionate campaigner for improve mental health care . I know he be very much in our thought . in 2021 we launch the independent inquiry to investigate the death of mental health in - patient across NHS trust in Essex between 2000 and 2020 . the Government appoint Dr Geraldine Strathdee , a former national clinical director for mental health for NHS England , to chair the inquiry . I want to place on the record my thank to Dr Strathdee and her team , because a lot of good work have be do . I applaud the bravery of all the victim and their family who have come forward to tell their story . I also recognise the work that the Essex Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust — EPUT — have do to assist with the inquiry . the trust have be in the spotlight , and progress have already be make to learn lesson and improve in - patient mental health care . EPUT ' s chief executive , Paul Scott , join in 2020 , and since then the trust have invest £ 20 million in its mental health in - patient ward and a furth £ 20 million in community service . compare with 2019 , patient abscond from care have decrease by more than 60 % , and the use of inappropriate restraint have fall by 88 % . however , in January Dr Strathdee raise concern with I about a lack of engagement with the inquiry by current and former EPUT staff . I know that many right hon . and hon . member share her concern . since then , the inquiry and the trust have work together in a concerted effort to increase staff engagement . none the less , I have listen to Dr Strathdee ' s concern that the inquiry still need further staff engagement to get victim ' family the answer they deserve . in a letter to I in March , she say that " 30 percent of name staff , those essential witness involve in death we be investigate , have agree to attend evidence session . in my assessment , I can not properly investigate matter with this level of engagement . " she have also raise with I concern about ongoing safety issue at the trust . to quote from her letter once again , she say : " I be very concerned that there be serious , ongoing risk to patient safety . due to the nature of these issue , I be confident that these can not be properly investigate by the Inquiry without statutory power . " the Government take both concern extremely seriously , and I agree with Dr Strathdee that we have now reach the point where the only appropriate course of action be to give the inquiry statutory power . statutory inquiry do take long , but this do not mean that work will start from scratch . Dr Strathdee ' s exist finding will inform the next phase of the inquiry . she have inform I that , owe to personal reason , she will not be continue as the inquiry ' s chair , so I want to thank she once again for all her commitment and hard work . I be sure the House will agree that she be a true public servant . our work to find her successor be proceed at pace , and I will update the House on the progress of set up the inquiry in due course . I recognise that Members ' concern about mental health in - patient facility be not confine to Essex . the Government be commit to improve mental health care across England , which be why we be boost mental health funding by at least £ 2 . 3 billion this year compare with four year ago , why we be make urgent mental health support available through 111 , and why we be deliver three new mental health hospital to provide specialist care and cut waiting list . in January , we commission a rapid review of how datum be use in in - patient mental health setting in England . more effective use of datum have the potential to reduce duplication , ensure that healthcare professional can spend more of their valuable time with patient . the review team — well lead again by Dr Strathdee — hear from more than 300 people represent every part of the in - patient mental health sector , include former patient and frontline staff . Dr Strathdee have make recommendation for how datum and evidence can be use to identify risk to patient safety and failure in care more quickly and effectively . the finding and recommendation of the rapid review will be publish today , and I will deposit a copy in the Libraries of both Houses . the Government will consider its finding carefully and respond in due course . we recognise , however , that patient and family want to know how their concern will be take forward as soon as possible , and I also recognise that a wide - range statutory inquiry relate to other setting , or cover multiple patient safety issue , would not deliver those answer quickly . my Department have therefore agree to work alongside the Healthcare Safety Investigation Branch to prepare for the launch of a national investigation of mental health in - patient service , which will commence in October , when the HSIB receive new power under the Health and Care Act 2022 . the new Health Services Safety Investigations Body will investigate the follow theme : how provider learn from death in their care and use that learn to improve service , include post - discharge service ; how young people be care for in mental health in - patient service and how that care can be improve ; how out - of - area placement be handle ; and how to develop a safe staffing model for all mental health in - patient service . across all those area , it will explore the way in which provider use datum . I want to reassure the House that the new body will have tooth and will work at speed , that it will have the power to fine those who refuse to give evidence when they be require to do so , and that its predecessor ' s investigation be typically conclude within a year . I hope that today ' s announcement will be of some comfort to the bereaved family who have do so much to raise awareness of the failing of mental health care in Essex and elsewhere . I want they to know that the Government be commit to obtain for they the answer that they deserve , and to improve mental health across the country . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of the statement . however , it beggar belief that it have take the government so long to address the House on this matter . it seem that every month there be new scandal regard needless loss of life and dehumanising behaviour in in - patient mental health setting . that must be stamp out now — these be people ' s life . that bring I to the subject of Essex Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust . I welcome the announcement today that the inquiry will be give vital statutory power , because for several year family who have lose love one at the trust have be call for the inquiry to be give those power . the grieve family I have speak to have tell I about the pain and anguish they have feel during their fight for answer , and that have only be compound by an inquiry that lack the necessary power to seek the truth . I must pay tribute to those family for their tireless campaigning and effort . in particular , I thank Melanie Leahy , who have fight for too long to achieve the announcement that have finally come today . I hope that Melanie , and every other family , will now start learn the truth . Dr Strathdee have be a powerful advocate for the Essex inquiry , and we want to express our thank to she for the work that she have already put in . the next inquiry chair must continue her work , and hold the confidence of the family who have be impact in Essex . I have repeatedly call on the Secretary of State to give the Essex inquiry statutory power , and I be pleased to see that he have finally listen to our call , but why be family leave in the lurch for so long ? follow month of scandal in in - patient mental health hospital , public confidence be fall . More than one in three people say that they do not have faith that a love one would be safe if they need hospital mental health care , but every patient must be treat with dignity . I have repeatedly ask Ministers whether they have visit fail trust . the Minister refuse to answer , so will the Secretary of State commit himself to great transparency ? the Secretary of State have announce that urgent mental health support will be make available through 111 , but 1 . 6 million people have be leave languish on waiting list for mental health treatment , their condition deteriorate and reach crisis point . it be welcome that we will finally see the publication of the rapid review today — well late than never — but Labour have be call for in - patient mental health setting to be review in the light of these serious failing , and any rapid review should have have patient voice at its centre rather than be simply the data exercise that the Government commission . when we look at the plan national investigation into in - patient service that they will conduct alongside the Health Services Safety Investigations Body , we see that , yet again , there be no mention of work with patient and their family . where be the learning ? where be the focus on what staff need in these setting ? be the Government look at additional training need , give that mental health care rely on staff and not simply on shiny equipment ? let I turn briefly to the plan consultant ' strike , about which the Health Secretary have say absolutely nothing . yet again he have be miss in action . for my consultant colleague to have vote to strike be extraordinary , and the risk to patient of seven day of strike action be intolerable . next week mark the 75th anniversary of the NHS , and it have never be in a bad state . the country be clear about who be to blame . it be not nurse , it be not junior doctor , it be not consultant , and it be not paramedic ; it be this Conservative Government . they have lose control of the NHS , they have lose the confidence of NHS staff , and they have lose the support of the british people . the only ballot that we need now be a general election . it be a shame that the hon . Lady choose to conclude her remark in such a way . let I address that head - on . it be bizarre to accuse a Minister who be literally at the Dispatch Box of be miss , particularly when the shadow Health Secretary , have manage to turn up for Prime Minister ' s Question Time , have fail to turn up for this statement . it be even more bizarre that , although we be constantly tell that the Labour party see parity between mental health and physical health as a key priority , when it actually come to debate the issue , the contrary be clearly on show . this debate be not about the issue normally raise during Prime Minister ' s question about the politic of the day ; it be about the family who have tragically lose love one , about how we can learn the lesson from that , and about how we can ensure that we get the datum right , get the support for staff right , and get the procedure right so that other family do not suffer loss . we have respond to the excellent point make by Dr Strathdee through her rapid review about datum . there be two element to that : there be datum that be collect that do not add value , be often duplicative and take staff away from give care — that be somewhere that we can free up staff — but there be other datum that be need to well identify issue early , and we need to look at how we improve that datum . specific issue arise in respect of engagement by staff , and we have actively listen and respond to the concern raise by family and by many member of the House , particularly about the Essex inquiry . I will come on to those as I go through the wide issue . the shadow Minister mention speed . of course , there be a balance to be strike between the completeness of a statutory inquiry and the great speed that be often offer by other independent inquiry . indeed , the Paterson inquiry be a non - statutory inquiry commission through the Department , and that be another vehicle that be often successfully use . there be also inquiry commission through NHS England , such as the Donna Ockenden review . there be often a balance to be strike between those inquiry , give the speed at which they can proceed , and a statutory inquiry , which have wide power but often take long . it be because of our desire to move at pace to get answer to family that we initially commission a non - statutory inquiry , in common with Bill Kirkup ' s inquiry into Morecambe Bay and inquiry into many other instance in the NHS . however , we have listen to family and to right hon . and hon . member who have raise concern about the process and , in particular , the engagement by staff , and decide to make it a statutory inquiry . the shadow Minister ask about our commitment to transparency . the very reason that we set up the rapid review in January be to bring great transparency to the datum . that be why I will be place in the Libraries of both Houses the outcome of the rapid review . that speak to the importance of transparency as we learn the lesson of what go wrong in Essex and in other mental health in - patient facility . the shadow Minister make a fair point about waiting time . we be committed to cut waiting time , include in mental health . that be why we be spend £ 2 . 3 billion more on mental health this year than four year ago , we have commission 100 mental health ambulance , we have 160 different scheme look at thing such as crisis caf é s to support people in A & E , and we have scheme such as the review through 111 and the funding the Chancellor announce in the Budget for mental health digital app to give people early support . of course , that sit alongside other mental health intervention , such as our programme to train more people to give mental health support in school . the shadow Minister make an important point about work with family . I agree with she about that . HSIB will be meet family — indeed , minister have be do likewise — and we be keen that that should feed into the term of reference , both for the statutory inquiry and for the HSIB review . we have touch on consultant , but let I make a final point on that . as far as I be aware , the opposition do not support a 35 % pay rise , whether for junior doctor or for consultant , but if that be their position , perhaps they will tell we whether this be yet another area that the stretchable non - dom contribution will reach to . exactly how will it be fund ? this be a serious issue . the measure that we be take address the concern of family who have suffer the most tragic loss . it be important that we learn the lesson , both in Essex and more widely . we have actively listen to the point raise by Dr Strathdee , who have do a fantastic job . it be right that the work move on to a statutory footing , but it be also right that we look more widely at the lesson from other mental health in - patient facility . that be exactly what we intend to do . first , let I put on the record my personal thank to the Secretary of State and Ministers for their honest and frank engagement with colleague and with bereaved family , whose concern they have listen to . it be my constituent Melanie Leahy , who be at one stage a constituent of my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , who bring the issue to our attention and to the attention of the Secretary of State . she deserve a lot of support for the way she have conduct herself . none of we would want to go through the sheer anguish and personal trauma that she have experience . we owe a lot to she and to other who have come forward . there be still 80 - plus family who do not engage with the inquiry lead by Dr Strathdee , to whom I pay tribute . the statutory inquiry will give they the confidence and courage to come forward , speak up and share what will be — we should be frank about this — deeply harrowing evidence . will the Secretary of State expand on how evidence receive by Dr Strathdee ' s inquiry will be treat ? I know that he say he will come back to the House on the process . we be interested , in particular , in the inquiry ' s term of reference . importantly for bereaved family , what measure will be in place to support people to come forward and give evidence ? there have be too many barrier in that regard for family and , if I may say so , those who have be employ by EPUT . what involvement will the family have in draw up the term of reference ? they be the one that need confidence in the process . again , I thank Dr Strathdee , and I thank the Secretary of State and Ministers for their engagement . in my discussion with my right hon . friend and colleague , I find the compassion that they show and the way they champion the family voice compelling . I absolutely agree that it be important that family take confidence from the decision to move the inquiry on to a statutory footing and come forward with their evidence . I know that she play an active part in that . of course , we want family to be part of the discussion on the term of reference . I know that , with her significant experience , my right hon . friend be keen to be part of that too , and we be keen to engage with she on it . my right hon . friend be right to highlight the evidence that have already be gather through the excellent work of Dr Strathdee . I have a meeting with she yesterday to ensure that we capture that as part of the work that be move forward . I hope — I reinforce my right hon . friend ' s point — that family will take confidence from today ' s announcement and that those family who have not come forward to date will be able to do so . I know that in my right hon . friend they will have a resolute champion support they to do so . I , too , welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , but I be disappointed that he do not say more about the serious risk that we have raise in the House — not least about timely access to service and the significant risk that many of my constituent have face out in the community — in respect of tee , Esk and wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust , which serve York . I wonder whether he can expand on that , and on his proposal for take thing forward at the trust . I be meet one of his Ministers next month , but I would like to hear his position on address the serious concern that have be raise . the hon . Lady raise a very valid point . there be real concern about Tees . we consider that when consider the scope of the statutory inquiry . give that significant work have be do in Essex , we decide to strike the balance by put that on a statutory footing but enable work to proceed at pace through HSIB on Tees and some other area . the hon . Lady will know that the Care Quality Commission prosecute the trust in May for a regulation 12 breach , and that significant work have already go in ; the report of the system - wide independent investigation be publish last March . they be very serious issue on which I think there be concern across the House , and we stand ready to work with she and other elect representative from that area as part of the wide work . it be a deep , deep tragedy that , over the 20 - year period , around 2 , 000 people lose their life under the care of mental health service in Essex . family and survivor be right to want transparency and accountability . give the slow progress of the independent inquiry , it be right that it now move to a statutory basis . when I speak in Westminster Hall , I share the testimony of a constituent who have be an in - patient in the early 2000 . she describe be rape by another patient and be laugh at by staff when she ask for support . she describe be able to make many suicide attempt , abscond from the ward and overdose . she describe how staff refuse to treat her self - harm injury and how she be repeatedly restrain and forcibly inject . I put on record my incredible respect for the people who be come forward to relive their horror and share their testimony . they be do this because family and survivor want to know that change be embed so that life be safeguard now and in the future . will my right hon . friend give assurance to my Essex constituent that mental health service in Essex will now be give the support they need to keep vulnerable people safe ? have discuss that harrowing evidence with my right hon . friend , I do not think any Minister could either forget it or not be move . I find it an extremely move experience to hear her talk about the experience of a number of her constituent . she be right to praise those who come forward , and to recognise that it be often a difficult ask to relive the most awful circumstance , but it be important that family come forward so that we learn lesson and ensure this be not repeat . my right hon . friend be also right to highlight the two broad element of learn the lesson of what happen in the past and maintain service for the future . I be therefore happy to give she an assurance that we will work closely with she on support for Essex as lesson be learn through the statutory inquiry and as service continue to be deliver . we be work closely on that with the chief executive . my thought be , first and foremost , with the bereaved family and all those involve , because this process must be utter agony for they . it be right that the inquiry be put on a statutory footing . in his statement , the Secretary of State quote from a letter he receive from Dr Strathdee , in which she say : " I be very concerned that there be serious , ongoing risk to patient safety . " the Secretary of State do not expand on that , and I do not know whether he be able to do so . if I may extrapolate , we know that , more broadly , there be risk to patient safety when there be not enough workforce and when there be not enough bed . Hertfordshire be the most under - bedded area of the country . when we see the workforce plan , potentially this week , will it include estimate of the number of qualified mental health staff we need in in - patient setting , NHS community setting and school ? will he meet I and my local mental health trust to discuss the number of bed we have in the county and our plan to expand they ? Dr Strathdee do not particularly focus on staffing number , as far as I recall ; she focus on some of the issue with care from staff . that be the nature of the concern . on the ongoing risk , part of the reason why we commission the rapid review be to look , in particular , at the quality of datum . there be a quantity of datum that be not effective , and that often distract staff from spend time with patient . there be also gap in the quality of datum that need to be fill , and the document that will be place in the Libraries of both Houses speak to that point . that be why we be so keen to move at pace on learn lesson . I welcome that sentence and the seriousness and speed with which this be be take forward . as a now non - practise consultant psychiatrist , I have a variety of declaration in this area , which be well summarise in the pre - legislative scrutiny report on the draft Mental Health Bill . my constituent be wait for the rebuild of the Abraham Cowley unit in my constituency , but the framework under which patient be look after be very important . People in in - patient setting be , by definition , some of the most vulnerable people look after by the NHS , and a fair proportion be a detain population . could the Secretary of State update the House on how soon we will see the Government ' s response to the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee report on the draft Mental Health Bill and when we expect the proper Bill to be bring forward ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of pre - legislative scrutiny , into which he have a personal input . I be hugely grateful for his work and the work of Baroness Buscombe and other . I meet Baroness Buscombe some month ago to discuss the outcome of that pre - legislative scrutiny . I do not have a date to share today , but I be happy to write to my hon . friend with a further update . many of my constituent depend on mental health service provide by the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust , which provide a range of service for very vulnerable people across a large part of south London . the in - patient service include clean and cater facility , and it be vital that those service be run well so that well - train professional staff be able to treat mental health patient . some of the trust ' s staff be contract to a company call ISS , and they have be on strike . do the Secretary of State agree that ISS should come to the table and discuss the issue of the pay dispute so that staff can provide the cleaning service for mental health professional to continue with their vital job ? we be invest more in mental health service as a whole , and that include the important area of cleaning and catering service . obviously , it would be inappropriate for I to comment on that specific contractual dispute , but industrial action , in its wide sense , be clearly disruptive and I be very keen for it to be resolve as quickly as possible , whether in the context of consultant or cleaning and catering service . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and the move to put the EPUT inquiry on a statutory footing . he mention that put it on a statutory footing mean it will take long . on behalf of constituent and those who be keen to get closure on these important issue , can he give any kind of indication of when the finding might be available ? the chair be to be appoint , and give that statutory basis and the independence of the chair , it would be wrong for I to pre - empt the term of reference . People can look to other statutory inquiry and come to a conclusion . the inquiry be not start from scratch , and part of the reason we originally go with a non - statutory inquiry be because of the desire for speed . of course , Dr Strathdee have do a huge amount of work and it will be available to the new chair of the statutory inquiry . one can look to other inquiry and draw conclusion , but I would expect it to move more quickly in this instance because a significant amount of work have already be do . I welcome the statutory inquiry , which be a step in the right direction . I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s focus on family . ensure family involvement in the care of mental health in - patient not only improve patient outcome but enable proper scrutiny and questioning of care . in region such as the south - west , many patient face the most serious mental health crisis receive care outside the region , which be often a long way for family to travel . be he consider the increase commissioning of local provision so that family can know their love one be be well care for ? many family will be concern about the statement and the experience of patient in Essex . the right care and the good care for many patient be close to home . the hon . Gentleman raise an extremely important point , and he be right that a particular downside of out - of - area placement be often the distance from family . indeed , one can see in the datum that there be often a corresponding uptick in issue of harm . the crux of his point be very valid . that be why we be commit to build new facility , with three new hospital for mental health announce in the statement I give on the new hospital programme ; that include three new mental health ambulance . this be also about prevent people from need in - patient care through our crisis caf é s , our early intervention in community service and the interplay with 111 . more fundamentally , it be about give great power to commissioner on a place - base basis . the reform through integrate health and social care , have few target from the centre and allow more devolved decision making mean that those area that want to put more money into in - patient mental health , for example , have great flexibility to do so . the point the hon . Gentleman raise be extremely important and it be exactly what we be facilitate . as my right hon . friend observe , a non - statutory inquiry be generally more fleet of foot than a statutory one . it be so disappointing that the failure of staff to engage in that process have bring we to where we be now . that would indicate a very poor culture and set the tone for how this inquiry will be take forward . let I remind he that one reason we be so anxious to get the Mental Health Act reform be that kind of behaviour towards patient . too many in - patient setting see patient as an inconvenience to be manage , rather than have their real welfare at heart . will he therefore redouble his effort to make progress on this , because many people who have be through the other side want to see that progress ? first , I do not want to wait for legislation before we make change . indeed , under the leadership of Paul Scott , who join EPUT in 2020 , investment have be make , with an extra £ 20 million be put into the in - patient ward and a furth £ 20 million into community service . we be keen to make further progress on that . on the wide issue of legislation , I know that my hon . friend , as a former Government Whip , be particularly acquaint with how the legislative process work , but the Government take her comment , and those of the House , on engage staff in this process seriously , and we be work very actively on that . it be vital that the Government work with sector expert and those with live experience of in - patient mental health service in get this vital area of policy right . as someone who spend almost a month as a psychiatric in - patient back in 2021 , I know at first hand how difficult , disorientate and dehumanise these setting be , at a time when you be at your most vulnerable , and how easily thing that be well - intentione can and do go wrong . will the Secretary of State therefore commit to work with Mind and other organisation give patient and their family a voice to shape these improvement , to ensure that any change happen with patient and their family , and not to they ? I very much agree on that . the hon . Lady speak powerfully of the importance of engage with those with experience — the charity sector , the family and those directly impact by the decision take in in - patient mental health facility . she make an extremely pertinent point and it be very much part of the approach we be take . I thank the Secretary of State for mention our great friend Sir David Amess . I be sure that , if he be still with we today , he would welcome this statement , as do I , as do his successor and , as be clear , as do all other Essex mps . the Secretary of State have do the right thing and should be commend . EPUT have be a troubled organisation for some time , although I believe that its chief executive , Mr Paul Scott , be genuinely try to turn it around . as we look back to find out what go wrong — some thing clearly go very badly wrong — will the Secretary of State work with the chief executive , provide support and resource , not just to make sure this do not happen again , but to try to help EPUT improve in the future as well as examine the past ? I know that my right hon . friend be particularly close to Sir David and be uniquely qualified to speak of his interest and involvement in these issue . I be happy to give he the reassurance that he seek on work closely with the chief executive and the leadership team there . I know from my engagement with colleague across the House that they will be closely involve in this in the week and month ahead . South London and Maudsley be the mental health trust that cover my constituency . this year , as a direct result of the Secretary of State ' s wide policy , SLaM be cut £ 45 million from service . he have say today that he want to improve mental health care and that he take safety concern seriously , but when will those word be meaningful for mental health care for patient and their family in Southwark ? the meaningfulness of those comment can be see in the fact that we be put this inquiry on a statutory basis ; the £ 2 . 3 billion additional investment compare with what we have four year ago ; the crisis caf é s and the other scheme we have , as part of the 160 scheme we be bring forward ; and our willingness to innovate in mental health through the use of mental health digital app . there be a whole range of initiative because that be the right approach . across the House , it have be recognise that in the past mental health do not get as much focus as physical health , which be why we be invest more . again , the House recognise that covid have bring more focus to these issue , which be why this be a priority for the Government . today ' s statement be a further continuum in that effort . I thank the Secretary of State for his attitude to this issue and the time he have put in . I fully support the point he have make about non - statutory and statutory inquiry . it be right to start off non - statutory and to change when the situation change and we be not get what we want . I reflect on the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) about , " where do this go wrong ? " since I first visit Rochford Hospital , part of what be now EPUT , in my constituency , I believe we have have three Secretaries of State visit , as well as at least five minister responsible for these area . what be the South Essex Mental Health Partnership grow to take in more of Essex , and it then reach across the border into Hertfordshire and , if I recall correctly , go far . it perhaps just get too big . early on , the constituent I speak to be concerned about get in ; they want their child to get in , but there be delay and this be about overall capacity . now the issue be about the quality of what go on . the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) mention bed and I can tell she that this be not a problem of bed , certainly in Rochford Hospital , where there be plenty of bed ; it be about have the clinical psychiatrist specialise in child ' s service and the support nurse to deliver . we should also pay attention to the fact that thing be much well where people have simple mental health problem , but very few people have those . when these problem be combine with drug use or autism , particular challenge be present while people be in these place and during discharge . I urge the Secretary of State to encourage the inquiry to look into all those issue . my hon . friend make extremely important point , and I absolutely agree with he . indeed , I will draw the inquiry ' s attention to the point he raise . he be right about the trade - off between non - statutory inquiry give speed and statutory inquiry have a wide range of power . we have follow the evidence on that , which Dr Strathdee have share . there be also a balance between the size of a facility and the quality of the care . data be a key component within that and the rapid review be focus particularly on it . all of we be focus on , " how do we get the good patient outcome ? where those have fall short , how do we ensure the lesson of that ? " that be what the statutory inquiry be absolutely focused on and it be important that family then engage with it . the Care Quality Commission report at the end of last year say that workforce issue and staffing shortage be the great challenge face the mental health sector . I be sure that that would not have come as a surprise to the Health Secretary . the Glenside campus , part of the University of the West of England , be in my constituency , and it run mental health training course for nurse . what conversation be he have with the sector about how we can ensure we get enough mental health nurse train , so that we get the right people come through and they be encourage to stay the course ? the hon . Lady ' s point be important , give that in the wake of the pandemic we have see significant increase in demand , particularly for child ' s and young people ' s service . for example , in a year , the demand increase by 41 % , so there be significant demand , which place pressure on the workforce . that be why the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have commit to the long - term workforce plan , which we will be bring forward very shortly . we have be engage with the sector , include the mental health sector , as part of that plan . NHS England have be do significant work on that in recent month . the background story to today ' s announcement be truly heartbreaking , and I welcome the statutory inquiry . the Secretary of State refer to recent announcement about funding and the 111 helpline . will he expand on what support can be access by people , especially young people , if they be go through a crisis right now ? it be extremely important that we get support to young people , because many mental health case start at a young age . indeed , datum suggest that as many as 50 % of mental health case crystalise by the age of 15 , so it be important that intervention be make early . our programme in school , for example , be focus on that . it be also important for we to have well community support , which be why we be look at what mental health support can be offer when people phone 111 and at how we can well scale up the use of digital app that offer support , give that people often access information through their phone or digital channel in a way that they do not five or 10 year ago . on behalf of my party , I express my sympathy to all the family who have be bereave and hurt by what have take place . I thank the Secretary of State for his announcement about the statutory inquiry and the new power . it be clear to those of we in the House who listen to his statement that he be committed to make patient ' live well ; we thank he and I put it on the record that he deserve credit for that . I know that the Secretary of State be always keen to share progressive strategy and policy with the regional Administrations ; he be on record as have say that . it be clear that many lesson can and will be learn , so do he intend to share they with the regional Administrations ? I be extremely keen to share our experience , so that we can learn from each other . as the hon . Gentleman know , this be a share challenge across our United Kingdom . the pandemic shine a spotlight on the mental health pressure that many people face , and I be extremely keen to work on a UK - wide basis with colleague to ensure that we learn from each other as we take these measure forward . give that a recent report into mental health service in York establish that communication be a clear concern that be affect mental health outcome and safety locally , what specific step would my right hon . friend take to ensure well communication between primary and secondary care service ? as we all know , that be vital in deliver fast and well outcome for patient not only in York but across the country . that be an extremely good point . in fact , a key element of the primary care recovery plan look at the handover point between secondary and primary care , which be often the cause of significant additional work within primary care . we be keen to see where we can ease those pressure , which in turn free up our experienced GPs to do those task that require more time , so that be part of the primary care recovery plan . through the rapid review and the focus on datum , we be well able to identify where there be gap or area of duplication that take clinician away from spend time with patient . that matter both in secondary and primary care , and it be something that the rapid review have be address . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and the publication of the rapid review . while Essex be rightly get its statutory inquiry , it appear that the situation in Tees , Esk and wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust will merely be cover by the new power of the Healthcare Safety Investigation Branch . will my right hon . friend confirm that TEWV will be cover by the HSIB review ? when can family expect to hear anything from that review ? will he keep the need for a statutory inquiry into TEWV under review ? it will be cover by the HSIB review . on how long that will take , investigation under the predecessor body typically take around a year , which be one of the advantage of the speed at which these thing can be do . I hope my hon . friend can see from the statement today that we will follow the evidence , give the decision we have take to put the Essex inquiry on a statutory footing , but the HSIB approach have the benefit of speed . I hope that will benefit his constituent , as we learn the lesson . it be worth clarify that the new body will have much great tooth , as a result of the reform that be pass by the House in 2022 . while it be not on a statutory footing , it actually have more power than be the case in the past . that be why we think it be the right approach for learn the lesson in his constituency and more widely . the Secretary of State have rightly point to the £ 2 . 3 billion in extra funding and have reiterate from the Dispatch Box his belief that early support for child ' s mental health be vital . do he agree that this be sadly still patchy across the country ? early access to child ' s mental health service need to be a priority for all new care system . I commend to he the approach be take in north Lincolnshire , where that be absolutely the case and where it have be champion by the wellbeing board and in all our health partnership . that should be replicate across the country . I commend my hon . friend for the service he give as a community first responder . through that , I know he take a huge interest in these matter . as with the point about datum , I be extremely keen that where there be good practice , we be socialise that across the country as a whole , rather than have it in pocket . I would be extremely keen to work with he on the lesson come out of north Lincolnshire and on how we scale that across the country , so that good practice can be adopt more widely . indeed , the statement today be about how we will ensure that the lesson from Essex can be apply more widely , so that good practice be socialise across the country . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , which will be welcome by everyone across Essex . Childcare Reform Package with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the progress we have make towards deliver the genuinely radical childcare reform announce in the Chancellor ' s spring statement . the Chancellor announce that from September 2025 , work parent will be able to access 30 hour a week of childcare , for 38 week a year , from the term after their child turn nine month to when they start school . I be pleased to announce that from today , the Department for Work and Pensions have raise the amount work parent on universal credit can claim for their childcare to £ 951 a month for one child and £ 1 , 630 for two or more child . that be an increase of roughly 50 % from the previous limit , which be £ 646 for one child or £ 1 , 108 for two or more child . the Government be also help eligible parent to cover the cost for the first month of childcare when they enter work or increase their work hour . those parent will now receive up to 85 % of the first month ' s childcare cost back before next month ' s bill be due , mean that from then on they should have the money to pay for childcare one month in advance . when I have speak to family on universal credit , many have tell I that they have struggle with up - front childcare bill , make it hard for they to get back into work . these childcare reform support one of the Prime Minister ' s five key priority — to grow the economy — by give family on universal credit up to £ 522 extra each month to cover childcare cost . this be a transformational package that be design to remove as many barrier to work as possible . the evidence be clear : the early year , before a child go to school , be the most critical stage of a young child ' s development . that be when they be learn most rapidly , and when the foundation be be lay for future success . we be also committed to improve the availability of wraparound childcare . Reliable wraparound childcare , before and after school , help parent to work and can offer child great activity around the school day . the education and care provide in childcare setting up and down the country be pivotal for child . visit and talk to nursery , childminder and other provider be one of the good part of my job . I wish to put on record my thank for the hard work and dedication of the talented people who work in the sector . I have travel across the country visit provider : from Chestnuts Childcare in Shirebrook to Kids Inc in Crowthorne ; from little Stars in Peterborough to Imagination Childcare in Moredon ; from Curious Caterpillars in Stroud to Playsteps Day Nursery in Swindon ; and from Bright Horizons in Didcot to Acorn Day Nursery in Emberton . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) , for Bolsover ( Mark Fletcher ) , for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) , for North Swindon ( Justin Tomlinson ) , for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) , for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) , for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and other for host I on those visit . they all share my determination to get this right for parent and provider . when I be out on those visit , I often hear how much of a lifeline the setting be for parent , allow they to work and develop their own career , while provide the high - quality early education that give our young child the good start in life . I support the ambitious expansion of childcare support for work parent that the Chancellor announce in his spring statement . it represent the single big investment in childcare this country have ever see . it will make sure that parent be able to access the high - quality , affordable childcare that they need . today ' s change be just one part of our generally radical plan . by 2028 , we expect to be spend more than £ 8 billion per year on early year education , which be double what we spend now . this will build on the 30 hour of fund childcare for three to four - year - old that this Government introduce in 2017 , extend the entitlement to eligible work parent of child age from nine - month - old to when they start primary school . it will remove one of the large hurdle that work parent face , and it will save parent £ 6 , 500 per year on average . we have hear it loud and clear from the sector that get the funding right be crucial . from this September , we will provide £ 204 million of extra funding for local authority to increase the hourly rate that they pay provider , and we will make sure that rate continue to go up each year . that mean that , from September , the average hourly rate for two - year - old will go from £ 6 per hour to around £ 8 per hour , and the average rate for three to four - year - old will be over £ 5 . 50 per hour . from 2024 - 25 , the average rate for under - two will be around £ 11 per hour . we will confirm the September rate for each local authority before the summer break . we will also ask the sector for its view on how we should distribute the funding for the new entitlement from April 2024 , include the rule that local authority will have to follow when distribute the funding to provider . of course , money be not everything . we also want to boost the early year workforce , who be so crucial to the success of nursery across the country . there be multiple way that we be do that . I have hear from many people who manage nursery that the way that we regulate staffing in setting be stop provider from make the most effective use of their staff and give their good people responsibility that match their ability . likewise , childminder and nursery have be tell we about barrier to deliver the education and care that they want for child . that be why we have launch a consultation on propose change to the early year foundation stage requirement . every single one of our proposal have come from conversation with people work in the sector . they will give setting more flexibility and help address some of those barrier , while maintain high - quality provision and keep our young child safe . indeed , 96 % of childcare provider in England be judge good or outstanding at their most recent inspection , which should give parent huge confidence in the standard of provision . some of the new measure will help free up staff to pursue professional development opportunity . we be invest up to £ 180 million in the early year education recovery programme , which offer a package of training , qualification , expert guidance and target support for everyone work in the sector . to train people up , we need to get more people in , so we be also go full steam ahead with a new national campaign early next year to promote the sector and support the recruitment and retention of talented staff . we will also consider how to introduce new accelerated apprenticeship and degree apprenticeship route , so that new entrant can build career at all level of the sector . I wish to reassure member that we will work closely with the sector to deliver these historic reform , just as we do on previous successful roll - out of the 30 hour entitlement for three to four - year - old , the 15 hour entitlement for two - year - old from disadvantaged background , and the holiday activity and food programme . we can not do this without early year provider , childminder and local authority . we have a strong track record of work together to deliver childcare for parent , and I will be listen closely to they when consider our next step . Madam Deputy Speaker , I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advanced sight of her statement . the Government ' s realisation of the importance of childcare remain strike , despite what the Minister say , for how long it have take . Childcare be important for so many reason — for give every child the good start in life , for help every parent to take on and succeed at the job they love , and for the foundation that it provide for success at school and throughout education . above all , as my hon . friend the shadow Secretary of State for Education have rightly say , childcare be important for support family to achieve and thrive together . yet it be only now that the Government have arrive at the party . it be typical of this government that they be not only late but focus on tweak that they trumpet proudly but that do not deliver the scale of reform that be urgently need . the reform reflect some of the change to universal credit that the shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions have repeatedly call for . but , as he have also warn Ministers , they do not go far enough in give people the chance and choice to go back to work at the scale necessary to tackle the challenge . on childcare , the Government ' s fixation on their break hour model leave they blind to the wide challenge around supply and demand of childcare and the extraordinary structure of the market for extra hour . the failure of that market be feel by every family . a decade of stick - plaster politic from the conservative party have cause they pain . but the announcement do nothing to ensure that childcare place be available in the city , town , and village of our country . in some place , nursery and childcare space be outnumber 10 to one by the child who need they . I be delighted that the Minister have visit the seat of so many of she new and presumably most nervous colleague , but , as well as talk to parent who have find childcare , she would have do well have she speak to parent who have not . the announcement do little to deliver the extra staff who will be need to deliver the extra entitlement for parent that the Minister so enthusiastically announce . it do nothing to deliver the childcare place in which our child will be care for and in which , we hope , they will learn in those extra hour and month of their life . it be great to hear that the Minister will be listen to provider and local authority , but listening be no substitute for action . it do little to retain or upskill the exist staff in the sector who be leave in their drove for work that be more clearly value . it do little to enrich childcare , to drive up quality , to make it a part of our education system , and to deliver a foundation for achievement and success right through school and life . it do little to deliver the flexibility that parent need not merely at work , but to get into work — to get the training and skill that they need and that our company , community and country need . in short , the announcement today be little more than a post - date cheque . it be a promise of jam tomorrow — a promise that bring more question than answer . Madam Deputy Speaker , let I briefly set out a few question in the hope that the Minister can address they in the debate today . when the 30 - hour childcare entitlement be spread over a year , it be the equivalent of 22 hour a week . what step be she take , right now , to address the cliff - edge in cost between the Government - fund hour and the hour for which parent have to pay ? will she repeal the restriction that council face in make more childcare provision available ? be she genuinely confident that a new advertising campaign will be enough to attract worker to the sector ? be she aware that , for an increase in entitlement to childcare place to work , there must be more staff , and more setting , otherwise more parent will simply find that they can not get the childcare that they need and to which they have entitlement ? finally , how do the Minister intend to ensure well uptake of childcare entitlement among eligible family give the complexity and bureaucracy of the exist system ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his reply . let I address some of the point that he raise in turn . the hon . Gentleman talk about the ability of parent to look for childcare in the holiday . we have the £ 200 million holiday activity and food programme , which be particularly target at disadvantaged child . last summer , more than 600 , 000 child access that . when we do our initial survey of that programme , about 70 % of those child say that they have never be to anything like that before , which be a great sign of the opportunity that it be spread . he talk about the work that we be do with local authority . to understand sufficiency and any challenge , we be contact every single local authority as part of the roll - out . the hon . Gentleman talk about get more staff , and we have set out some flexibility ; I talk in my statement about the recruitment campaign we be do next year . he talk about well uptake , but I would say that the uptake of the offer for three to four - year - old be in the 90 % range ; for two - year - old it be in the 72 % range and tax - free childcare in recent year have go from 172 , 000 up to 500 , 000 . yes , there be more to do , but we have very good uptake and any parent think about more childcare should look at our Childcare Choices website to see what they might be entitle to . overall , however , I get the sense from the hon . Gentleman ' s comment that he do not listen to my statement . I talk about the £ 4 billion extra that be go into the sector , about plan for staff and for childminder and about route for apprenticeship . I remind he that it be a Conservative Government that expand the offer for three to four - year - old and introduce the offer for two - year - old , and now it be the Conservative Government make the single large - ever investment into childcare . what do we know about the Labour party policy ? we know the opposition want to do universal childcare , but they deny that last week . that be last week ' s flip - flop — or I should say one of last week ' s flip - flop . they have talk about means - test childcare , which would mean take away childcare from middle - class parent at a moment when we know that family be struggle with their finance . on the Government side we recognise that childcare be important for family and important for growth . our childcare plan , as announce at the Budget , be call by the International Monetary Fund a serious point of growth in this country . we recognise that that be important . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I congratulate my hon . friend on this important statement . I agree with she and , more importantly , I agree with the Treasury that childcare be worth invest in . I welcome the change to universal credit , which I think will make a significant difference , but I particularly welcome the £ 204 million of extra funding for local authority to distribute to provider ; from what the Select Committee have hear from provider , that be urgently need . we need to make sure we have capacity in the system to meet the challenge of provide all that additional childcare for family . I urge she to make sure that as much of that funding as possible be distribute , and to talk to local authority about ensure they do not top - slice it too aggressively . when the Government announce the £ 8 and £ 11 rate for the young year , we hear from childminder in particular that they simply do not believe that they would receive that . we want a system in which the provider on the frontline of provide childcare get the funding that the Government announce . we have a rule at the moment that local authority have to pass on 95 % of the fund that they receive , and our return show that they pass on 97 % . however , as the year go on , with the amount of extra money that we have put into the system , we can definitely look at those figure and at what can be do . some of that will be set out in our consultation before the summer . the Minister tell we about several childcare provider that she have speak to , but she have clearly not speak to Munchkins Village Nursery in Burscough in my constituency . the nursery get in touch with I to say that , while the help for parent be very welcome , the Government have by their own admission underfunde the sector to the tune of about one third of the funding promise — about £ 2 billion — and the nursery staff believe that the sector be in financial risk . do the Minister appreciate that , regardless of any funding for parent , they simply can not find the childcare that they need ? I recognise that it have be a challenging few year for the sector . in this piece of work we have survey about 10 , 000 provider , we have a provider ' finance report and we have survey about 6 , 000 parent , so we use a very data - drive estimate to come up with the figure . we will be consult on the funding before the summer and , as I say , there will be fund come in September before any expansion of the entitlement , which start in April next year . there will be additional money next year and by 2027 - 28 we will be spend an additional £ 4 billion that will be distribute via local authority to those setting . I congratulate my hon . friend on such an excellent statement today — I think the shadow Minister need to read it , because he clearly do not listen to it . my hon . friend have clearly think about the need for top - quality childcare , which for many young child be vital when their home life be perhaps not all it could be . one thing she have not talk much about be the provision of new workforce . can she comment a bit more on her consultation on change the requirement for high - level qualification to a requirement for qualification that be more appropriate to provide empathetic and supportive care ? I know my right hon . friend be incredibly passionate about this area , and I share her passion . in the consultation we have set out some flexibility after talk to the sector ; an example of that would be relax some of the requirement around have level 2 math for level 3 qualification , which we know have be a barrier for some people . we be look at all kind of flexibility that mean we will get the right staff at every stage to make sure that our child get the right education . the Minister would have be very welcome in the north of England , particularly in Westmorland . this announcement be welcome in many way and will help many parent in my constituency who can not afford to work at the moment . it be a good step forward . however , many childcare provider — probably the majority in my constituency — be link to the primary school in that community , and primary school have never face such awful financial circumstance as they do now . I have visit many school in Westmorland the last few week , from Appleby to Windermere , from Kendal to Brough , from Shap to Witherslack and many other . they all tell I that the deserved pay rise for teacher and other staff be unfunded by Government and that energy cost , which they have see go through the roof , be also largely unfunded , leave many school in deficit and have to shed staff . all that undermine their ability to provide childcare and other form of education . what have the Minister to say to our local school in Westmorland , which be desperate for her support so that they can carry on provide education and childcare ? we be take school funding to a historic real - term high . we be also make the single large ever investment in childcare . I recognise that it have be a difficult time for public sector service , and the most important thing we can do be to grip inflation and make the pound go far , but overall we be put record funding into both area . we do need more childcare , and I wish the Minister every success with these policy , but we be go to need a lot more people , business and other institution to come forward to provide that care . will the whole government do more ? can we get rid of IR35 , a tax on the self - employ ? can we raise the value add tax threshold for small business ? we must look at make childcare more worthwhile , because we need the teacher and the childcarer . I thank my right hon . friend — I have just have a bit of a flashback to my day as a Treasury Parliamentary private Secretary . he be absolutely right that the supply of childcare will be a really important part of growth , as have be reiterate by the IMF and other . progress in this area be very welcome and necessary , but part of the statement will be dispirit for family in Northern Ireland , as we fall even far behind . can the Minister confirm that Northern Ireland will receive commensurate funding through the Barnett formula , and have she and her official give any thought to how the new regulation and resource might be apply in Northern Ireland ? furthermore , give the extremely austere budget settlement in Northern Ireland , do she acknowledge that even where there be improvement in childcare , many child will be go on to increasingly degraded and under - resource primary school ? the money will be pass on in the normal way across the education budget . we regularly meet Education Ministers from the devolved administration , and the Secretary of State hold such a meeting , I think from memory , in early June . an excellent statement — on behalf of nursery in Winchester and Chandler ' s Ford , I thank the Minister . the recruitment drive in particular be much need . however , it would be easy to do that , and to retain staff , if we could give staff a pay rise . the sector tell my all - party parliamentary group on childcare and early education — I thank the Minister for come to address we — that if it be not pay business rate , that would be a lot easy . school - base setting do not pay they , but the rest of the private , voluntary and independent sector do . I realise that that be a matter for Treasury , but will she please take that away and look at it again ? that would make a she a true hero in the sector when she continue she very welcome visit . I will of course look at everything we can do to support all setting . as part of the work we do to assess cost , we look at other cost , include thing such as business rate , to assess the level of funding we should give for the hourly rate , but of course I will always look at anything I can do to support nursery . look at the exist childcare entitlement for two , three and four year old , the Early Years Alliance and the Women ' s Budget Group estimate that the current offer fall short by about £ 1 . 8 billion — and that be even before we expand the offer , as be announce in the spring Budget . the Government be provide only an extra £ 204 million this year and £ 288 million next year , before we expand the hour . that clearly fall well short . there be no point expand the hour if the provider be not there , so could the Minister explain what she be do to ensure that early year provider actually remain financially viable ? as I say , it have be a challenging time for provider , but the work we have do to come up with the hourly rate have be base on a lot of evidence . I do not recognise that figure that the hon . Lady talk about . as I say , we survey 10 , 000 provider and 6 , 000 parent , and look at provider ' finance report , to look deeply at the cost and come up with the hourly rate . I continue to talk to all provider as we continue the expansion . it be a tribute to the Minister that she secure the single large ever increase in funding in this important area and that the Labour Opposition could not even be bother to turn up today . she will know at first hand from visit Imagination nursery , which be now an outstanding provider , that it have the sort of provision that we want to expand . for it to have the confidence to do so , it need certainty on fund to recruit and retain staff and secure additional premise . will she keep push for as much advance clarity and certainty as possible so that all child can benefit from this wonderful announcement ? I absolutely will . it be a joy and a delight to visit Imagination nursery , which do outstanding work , and I congratulate it on its recent grade . I will take my hon . friend ' s point on board . this be the first time in history that a Prime Minister and Chancellor of the Exchequer have put the early year at the centre of the country ' s growth strategy . I note that an International Monetary Fund analyst single it out in say that " supply - side measure , notably the increase in childcare support … should have a positive effect on medium - term growth " , so that be absolutely welcome . I can not thank the Minister enough for visit BarBar Nursery , Allsorts , and Curious Caterpillars Day Nursery . in our work with Onward , we have call for a national campaign on recruitment . if there be any possibility of that happen this year rather than next , I would like a commitment from the Department that it will get a wriggle on , because that be important . will the Minister work with the Local Government Association to have a good look at what different council be do , not only with the money flow down from Government but on how often childminder be pay ? I know of childminder who be pay only about three time a year . not many of we could cope with that type of cashflow . as always , my hon . friend make excellent point on this matter . I will absolutely consider she point about childminder and will ensure that I continue to talk to she . she have be incredibly helpful throughout this process and in secure the funding . I warmly welcome my hon . friend ' s statement , which will help some of those on the low income either to take up work or to take on more work . she will recall that when I have the pleasure of take she to a nursey in Didcot , it raise the vary rate that nursery be pay by local authority across the country for the same work . do she agree that , although the Government ' s large single investment in childcare ever be welcome , it be important that local authority pay a broadly comparable amount of money to provider ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for take to I to Bright Horizons in Didcot , which be a useful visit . local authority have different rate . we will set out funding rate before the summer , and will consult on they . we take different cost across the country into account , but he make an interesting point . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s announcement and thank she for all the work that she have do for childcare provider . I be go to raise the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) about business rate . will the Minister explain what help she be give to local authority to help provider deliver the expand childcare offer to parent ? at the moment , the way the policy work be that provider have to pass on at least 95 % , and can keep 5 % , of the funding rate that they be give . Most pass on more — from our return , most pass on 97 % — but they can use the additional money for the administration of payment and such . may I congratulate my hon . friend on her statement and on the hard work she have put in to get we here ? I hold a roundtable of early year provider in Barrow a few week ago . the issue that come up time and again be that they be lose good staff — staff the kid like and the parent get on with — because of the qualification requirement for English and math . can the Minister confirm whether part of the consultation will look at that ? may I invite she to come and visit Cheeky Monkeys Childcare and some of the other provider in Barrow at some point in the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be one of the thing that I hear from the sector as well , particularly on the qualification barrier . I can confirm that we be consult on that — particularly on the math point — in the flexibility consultation that we set out at the beginning of the summer . I would be delighted to visit he . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in but 10 minute time , we will move on to consideration of the Holocaust Memorial Bill . it be very important in my view that the Minister and the House should have available on the Table the " National Memorial and Learning Centre : search for a Central London site " document issue by the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation in September 2015 . may I ask you to convey that to those on the Treasury Bench so that that document be available to Ministers and the House ? I be grateful to the Father of the House for his point of order and for give I notice of it . I have pay careful attention to the point that he make . I can assure he that the Vote Office have print from the internet and prepared copy of the document that he mention . I entirely agree with he that it be important that the House be well educate on the fact of the matter that we be about to discuss , so I have myself obtain some copy . I will give one forthwith to the Whip to give to the Minister , and one to the Labour Whip to give to the shadow Minister . I hope that the Father of the House will thus be satisfied that the document that he consider very important be fully available . I do not have copy here for everyone , but they be available in the Vote Office . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 12 August 2021 , seven people be shoot in Keyham and Ford , and we lose five of they . the subsequent inquest identify a catalogue of serious failing in our police , and make recommendation to the Home Office . on 21 February , the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , confirm to the House that he have ask the coroner for a delay in respond to the inquest ' s finding until 30 June , and say that " no doubt there will be a statement to the House " — [ Official Report , 21 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 158 ] at that point . that is tomorrow . the family of the victim be desperate to know how such tragedy can be prevent in future . can you advise I on whether you have hear from the Home Office that an oral statement will be make to the House , and what more can be do to ensure that any measure announce as a result of the inqu receive proper parliamentary scrutiny so that no tragedy like the one we see in Plymouth can ever happen again ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I can well understand his consternation . the matter to which he refer be truly a tragedy , and there be family who must be suffer dreadfully because of it . the only answer that I can give he from the Chair be that I have no notice of the intention of any Minister to make such a statement , but I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear what he have say , and I sincerely hope that his concern will be convey to the appropriate Minister . of course , I hardly need remind he that there be various mechanism that he can use to raise this matter substantively on the Floor of the House , and I be sure that he will go to the Table Office to see what he can do . Global Climate and Development Finance Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) 2 . 38 pm I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for increase the on - lending of UK Special Drawing Rights via the IMF , for transfer the capital return to the UK by the European Investment Bank to the World Bank , and for increase the UK ' s support for the African Development Bank , for the purpose of reduce debt burden and the cost of capital and contribute to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change . I start by declare an interest as chair of the international Parliamentary Network on the World Bank and International Monetary Fund , which bring together 2 , 000 parliamentarian from 140 country to argue for the change that I will put before the Government today . if anything , this Bill be overdue . eight year ago , the world come together to agree an ambitious plan to spread freedom , security and justice to every corner of the planet . the sustainable development goal agree in New York in September 2015 offer hope , progress and a well life to billion of people . month later , we come together again , not in New York but in Paris , to agree the climate change agreement that would help we guarantee that there would be a planet leave on which to make those goal a reality . however , the truth be that such ambition be in deep trouble . there be just 10 , 000 day to go before the Paris climate agreement deadline . a perfect storm be now threaten the world ' s potential to deliver on the goal that we agree just eight year ago . in fact , seven giant now stand in the way of progress : want , hunger , disease , lose learning , conflict , debt and climate change . they be a cascading , connect set of challenge with lethal force . extreme poverty have rise for the first time this century , with 600 million people now forecast to be live on less than $ 2 . 15 a day by 2030 . globally , 200 million people now wake up without enough to eat , and 300 million child will need humanitarian assistance this year . on current trend , we will not meet our goal of end hunger by 2030 . that scarcity be fuel violence . about half of the world ' s extreme poor be expect to live in conflict - affect area by 2030 . in turn , those condition be threaten our ability to make good child ' s lose learning during covid , which could cost $ 21 trillion over the course of their life . poor nation have now exhaust their reserve . in fact , debt in develop country be now the high it have be for 50 year , and level be rise . loom deadly over all of that be the change in our climate and the chaos of extreme weather . across half the world and most of Africa , the season be simply no long predictable . the sun which once bring life now bring death because it burn so ferociously . the rain , when they fall , fall with such force that life - give water flood and destroy the land it once nourish . against that murderous maelstrom , low and middle - income country need to mobilise some $ 6 trillion between now and 2030 to hit their Paris climate target . poor country do not cause climate change , but the world ' s poor be somehow expect to pick up the piece . we can not go on like this and , as President Macron say in Paris last week , we must not go on like this . if the world fail to act — if we fail to act — all of we may fall prey to those who preach that the rule - base order be not fit for purpose . new institution outside the World Bank , the IMF , and perhaps even the United Nations , will come forward beyond our influence , so we must change . that be why my Bridgetown Bill call on the Government to lead , to take the initiative and to help champion the agenda set out with such passion , force and eloquence by Prime Minister Mia Mottley . the whole House should salute her work . she have help to galvanise the big shake - up of global development finance since the World Bank and IMF be create in 1944 . her Bridgetown initiative be a pragmatic collection of idea with radical implication for the World Bank ' s mission and model , the resource deploy by the IMF , and the goal that rich country must step up to and meet . reform be under way and the agenda be move . I be grateful for the Government ' s support , such as it be , but our good estimate be that the Bretton Woods institution must at least triple the finance that they supply . that be why the UK should lead and help to champion this debate internationally . the Bill be need because it be a matter of regret that the once - proud record of our country — once laud as a leader in global development — be now much reduce . it be a matter of regret that the Prime Minister find time to enjoy the company of Mr Murdoch in London last week and decline to join President Macron in Paris , with 50 other leader from around the world . it be a matter of regret that the UK be not lead the debate on green development finance , but lag behind . important step forward be take last week in Paris . the World Bank , under its brilliant new president , Ajay Banga , commit to an expand crisis toolkit , replete with new type of insurance to backstop development project , and crucially , to a pause in debt repayment so that country can focus on what matter when crisis strike without worry about the bill . Kristalina Georgieva , the head of the IMF , give we some reassuring news about how we may now be on track to meet the target of share $ 100 billion in special drawing right . however , there be still a gap in what need to be accomplish , which be why the UK need to rediscover the lost art of lead , and that be what this Bill propose . first , we should be increase the on - lending of special drawing right and follow Japan ' s lead . we have £ 19 billion - worth of new special drawing right , and they be sit there gather dust in the exchange equalisation account . we have say that we will share 20 % , but Japan say it will share 40 % . if we match that target , we could supply nearly £ 4 billion of extra resource to the poor country . I have be ask Foreign Secretaries and Treasury Secretaries for two year why we be not match the ambition of country such as Japan and , frankly , I be yet to receive a good and coherent answer . secondly , we should be use some of those special drawing right to support the work of the African Development Bank . if we lend £ 500 million - worth of special drawing right , the ADB could quadruple it in new concessional lending to country across Africa . thirdly , we should be help to build a big World Bank . the World Bank remain the most efficient and effective way of mobilise development finance . a $ 20 billion increase in its capital base would unlock $ 200 billion in concessional lending over the course of the decade . if the UK contribute to that kind of increase , our share might be about $ 1 billion — $ 200 million a year over five year — but we could step up to that challenge . we will get £ 3 . 5 billion back from the European Investment Bank — I suppose some in this House would call that a Brexit dividend — between now and 2030 . we should recycle that money into the World Bank to help it radically expand lending to some of the world ' s poor country . nobody can be more eloquent in debate such as this than a hungry child , so let I conclude with the word of a 10 - year - old boy at a primary school in rural Narok County , Kenya . I have the privilege of meet he at his school with the hon . member for Erewash ( Maggie Throup ) , and I want to thank the Esm é e Fairbairn Foundation , World Vision and the Coalition for Global Prosperity for help to make that visit possible . this be what he have to say : " I like come to school because I have many friend who I play with and learn together . my teacher always teach we how to read , write and many other new thing . they be good to we . " but he also say : " sometimes we eat once in a day because there be no food and we don ' t have enough water to drink . despite all these challenge we still come to school to learn . " the child of that school have the same dream as our child . they want to be lawyer , doctor and teacher , and some — so help they — want to be politician . yet such be the drought , such be the poverty , and such be the desperation that many family struggle to survive . girl as young as 11 be send to get marry , and boy be send to work even young . child be not in school because they be hunt for water all day . if we do not step up and solve these challenge , there will be not just an opportunity gap for those child , but an opportunity cost for all of we . that be a price we can not afford , so I call on his Majesty ' s Government to act . question put and agree to . order , that Liam Byrne , Sarah Champion , Sir Stephen Timms , Tony Lloyd , Sir George Howarth , Clive Efford , Debbie Abrahams , Mr Virendra Sharma , Mike Amesbury and Patrick Grady present the Bill . Liam Byrne accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 336 ) . Holocaust Memorial Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Sir Peter Bottomley have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this short Bill serve a vital purpose . it ensure that the undertaking that this Government have give , support by the official Opposition and all party in this House , be honour , and that a fitting , government - lead national memorial and learn centre to honour the 6 million who die in the holocaust be establish in a suitable , prominent centre at the heart of our capital city . I know that everyone in this House recognise that the holocaust be a unique evil . genocide — the great crime that humanity can inflict on other human being — have be a dark feature of our share history since the dawn of time , but the holocaust stand out in scale and in horror . it be a unique desire on the part of a nation to wipe out an entire people . mechanised cruelty execute on a scale that could never have be imagine beforehand mean that , from the Pyrenees to the Urals , the Nazi war machine be bent on the elimination of an entire race . I think all of we , whatever our view on the Bill and all of the inevitable detail that follow in make sure that an appropriate memorial be site , will share a desire to ensure that the commitment " never again " be in all our heart . I fully concur with what my right hon . friend have just say , and I be fully supportive of a national holocaust memorial , but the reason I will not be support the Government in the passing of this Bill this evening — if it be pass — be that there appear to have be a complete lack of public consultation . Westminster City Council be against it , and it seem to I as though this have be impose from above by Government . that be not what we do in this country : we need a much wide consultation . that be why many prominent Jews , include Malcolm Rifkind , former rabbi and so forth , have sign the open letter argue against the siting of the memorial in Victoria Tower garden . my hon . friend make an important point . there have be controversy and there have be opposition to the site of the memorial , but it be only fair to say that the decision to site it in Victoria Tower garden have follow consultation . there be extensive consultation on this project , start with Prime Minister David Cameron ' s holocaust commission in 2014 , which receive almost 2 , 500 response . follow the announcement in January 2016 that Victoria Tower garden have be identify as the most fitting site , an international design competition be then hold to select a suitable design team . I do not put this as a point of argument , but as something that I hope my right hon . friend be aware of : when the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation put out its specification in September 2015 — a copy of which , I think , be available to my right hon . friend — it say that it want various criterion to be take into account , include a possible location in central London , which on page 10 of the specification be illustrate as west of Regent ' s Park , east of Spitalfields and down from the Imperial War Museum . in the four or five month between September 2015 and January 2016 , there be no public consultation about the site at all . I do not want my right hon . friend to feel that he need to answer that point now , but if he could say before the end of the debate what consultation there be between September 2015 and January 2016 , that might be helpful to the House . the consultation be undertake after the announcement of the win design , and from January to September 2017 the public be invite to comment on the shortlist design , which be exhibit in Parliament and across the United Kingdom . of course , as the Father of the House will know , there be a planning inquiry , and during that inquiry extensive material about the memorial and the learn centre be publish and share . interested party be give an opportunity to raise concern and objection , and objector have the opportunity to make their case to the independent planning inspector at that point . however , I stress that the decision on the site be not take by Government Ministers , and — in respect of the understandable concern raise by my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) — it be not impose by the Government themselves . the decision be arrive at by the independent Holocaust Memorial Foundation , with representation from different political tradition , include the right hon . Ed Balls and the right hon . Lord Pickles ; the Chief Rabbi ; the very distinguished president of the Community Security Trust , Gerald Ronson ; and a host of other from civil society . while my hon . friend be right to say that some people within the jewish community have express concern , the overwhelming view of the jewish community and its representative organisation be that this be the right memorial in the right location , and that we must press on . I be extremely grateful to the Secretary of State for give way . on the location , what assurance can he give that the Bill do not undermine the environmental protection that Victoria Tower garden currently enjoy ? Victoria Tower garden will continue to be a park with public access — only some 7 . 5 % of the location of the park will be occupy by the memorial . of course , when David Cameron initiate the commission , it be make clear that any memorial should be suitably strike , suitably prominent , and in a location that have political , cultural , emotional and historical resonance , which it will be . when I be Leader of the House of Commons , between 2017 and 2019 , I receive so many representation personally from people who make the case that there be now so few holocaust survivor still live that we simply have to get on with this . as my right hon . Friend say , that consultation begin under David Cameron ' s leadership , which be now a long time in the past . if we be go to do this , and it need to be in a prominent place to show our respect and commitment to remember that horrific time , we must get on with it . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend , who be a brilliant Leader of the House , for make that point so clearly . as she remind we , the holocaust be move from live history to history . the voice of those who be survivor and witness be fade , and we must ensure that their example endure . just a fortnight ago , Ben Helfgott , an ambassador for the Holocaust Educational Trust , sadly pass away . Ben be a holocaust survivor who go on to represent this country in weightlift at the Olympics . thank to the Holocaust Educational Trust , I have the privilege of meet Ben and hear his testimony . I do not think any of we who have hear the testimony of any of the witness and survivor for whom the Holocaust Educational Trust have provide a platform will forget that — there be nothing as powerful as hear from those who live through and survive the hell of the holocaust . as Ben and other survivor pass on , it be our duty and our responsibility to move as quickly as we can to ensure that the memorial they fight for and wish to see be establish suitably . of course , one of the other reason why it be so important that we move quickly and show resolution be that not only be voice fade , but antisemitism be rise . in 2022 , the last year for which we have figure , the Community Security Trust record 1 , 652 antisemitic incident . in the year before that , the number of antisemitic incident in this country have reach a record high . as Jonathan Sacks remind we , antisemitism be a virus that mutate . we need to be vigilant , always and everywhere , against hate and prejudice , and the memorial and learn centre will establish a means of do so for generation to come . I agree with everything that the Secretary of State have just say . he will be aware that the Jewish Museum in Camden be due to close because of a lack of fund — that be my understanding . what consideration have the Government give to provide some fund to keep that recognition of the holocaust alive ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . of course , the Government stand behind the memorial , but there will also be philanthropic funding . here again , Gerald Ronson CBE be one of the figure at the forefront in support this cause , as he have so many good cause . the Government also support the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust . indeed , I be proud as the Education Secretary to carry on the great work of Ed Balls in make sure that holocaust education be a critical part of the history that every child learn in our school . as the former Leader of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , point out , David Cameron establish a commission with cross - party support in 2014 , and it be that commission ' s work that we seek to honour today . again , the commission be clear that the most important thing be to make sure that we have a striking new memorial in a prominent central London location and accompany by a world - class education centre . that be what the holocaust memorial commission be charge with deliver , and the detail of its proposal have command respect and approval from historian and from within the jewish community . this Bill seek specifically to change the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 , which govern public park . all we seek to do be to make sure that those part of the 1900 Act that Mrs Justice Thornton rightly invoke in the case that be hear before she be alter . we wish to ensure that it be the clear will of Parliament — both the Commons and the Lords , across party and across political tradition — that the memorial go ahead , while also continue to respect free access to Victoria Tower garden , respect its position as a public park , and make sure that those green space be accessible to all and that the exist memorial there be respect as well . as I have mention , the choice of venue have attract some controversy , but I can put it no well than the Chief Rabbi himself . when question about why , he say that this " be an inspirational choice of venue … this be a most wonderful location because it be in a prime place of great prominence and it be at the heart of our democracy … we don ' t want to tuck the Holocaust away somewhere — similar to … a tiny monument in Hyde Park , that most people have never hear of . we want all of british society to be aware … for the sake of the whole country and its future . " we be all privileged to be parliamentarian , and we all know that when people think of this country , the symbol they associate with it be this House . we all know that this nation — the mother of Parliaments , the home of parliamentary democracy — have a proud tradition . it be only appropriate that , when we reflect on the great evil that humanity have ever be responsible for , it be here in the home of parliamentary democracy that we find the space , the time and the common endeavour to make sure that a fitting memorial can be establish , and that be what this Bill seek to do . my right hon . friend be make a very effective and powerful speech in support of the Bill . the point he have just make about the proximity of the memorial and learn centre to this institution be exactly right . do he agree with I that , when we talk about the holocaust and the horror of the past , it be not just something that happen to other people over there ; it be actually part of our story and our history as well ? so Westminster , close to Parliament , be the ideal location for this memorial . I could not agree more . there be representative in this House and in the other place who be the relative of those who die or survive the holocaust . Lord Austin , a distinguished Cross Bencher in the other place , be the adopt son of a holocaust survivor . this be about recognise the intimate link between this country and that crime , and the fact that distinguish figure such as those responsible for the Kindertransport play an heroic role in help people flee persecution to come to this country . however , it be also the case that all history be complex , and there be mistake that this nation and some of its leader or lead politician make at that time that we also need to remember , if we be to ensure that " never again " be a phrase that resonate with meaning rather than be simply an empty repeat platitude . my interest in this Bill be primarily drive by constituent of mine who be relate to Thomas Fowell Buxton , and there be a very important monument to his memory and the campaign he wage against slavery on this site . if this Bill proceed , what can we do to ensure that this memorial complement that memorial ? again , the hon . Gentleman make a very important point . the whole design by David Adjaye and his team be design to complement the Buxton memorial . indeed , the hon . Gentleman be quite right that it be fitting that a memorial intend to ensure that we remember those who fight against the evil of slavery be locate alongside a memorial to ensure that we remember the victim of the great crime that humanity be ever responsible for . my right hon . friend have be right in talk about the site for the memorial , and colleague have raise the issue of opposition to it . do he agree with I that the principal reason why some jewish people and jewish leader be raise objection be the sheer length of time this whole process be take ? actually , they do not object to where it be site , but just want to make sure we get on with the job and get it do . my hon . friend be absolutely right . from the meeting I have have with the commission and the conversation I have have with people in the jewish community and beyond , I know they want we to proceed . they understand that we be a country govern by law and they understand why the court come to the decision it do on the 1900 Act , but they also want the Government , as well as this House and the other place , to proceed at the fast possible pace — give due consideration to all the argument that be and have be make , but at the fast possible pace — to ensure that an appropriate memorial be establish . I would like to close by reflect on the word of Mala Tribich MBE , who be now 92 year old , and a holocaust survivor herself . as she say : " as the Holocaust move far into history and we survivor become less able to share our testimony this Memorial and Learning Centre will be a lasting legacy so that future generation will understand why it be important for people to remember the Holocaust , to learn from the past and stand up against injustice . the memory of the Holocaust can not be leave to fade when we eyewitness be no long able to share our memory . " I believe we owe it to Mala and to all survivor to pass this Bill , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I want to start by say that Labour strongly support this Bill and welcome the second reading of it today . we agree very much with the sentiment express by Conservative Members that the soon and more swiftly we be able to make progress with this , the well . the movement to create a fitting national memorial to mark , to remember and , most of all , to learn from the horror of the holocaust be something that rightly command the support of member on all side of the House . so we welcome the second reading of the Bill and its , I hope , swift progress through the House . the holocaust be undeniably the great crime of the last century . People be take from their home , strip of their possession and subject to the horror of the concentration camp , force labour camp and ghetto just , in many case , because they be jewish . the murder of 6 million Jews and so many other by the Nazis must never ever be forget . I be in my early 20 when I first visit Auschwitz , and it be something I will never forget . I know it would make an impression , but I do not think I have any real comprehension of what a deep and lasting impression it would leave on I to this very day . history live in that camp , and we can feel the pain in the air . it be a very difficult thing to comprehend , but it be a privilege to be able to learn and to understand about the horror of the past in order to ensure that it never happen again . for my generation , whose grandparent live through and , in my grandfather ' s case , fight in the war and fight for the establishment of the state of Israel as somewhere where jewish people could find a natural home and where they be safe — where they would always be safe — this be not just history . we have grow up with the story of what happen in that era , and of why it matter so much that we remember . however , it have actually be through the work of those incredible charity and museum , and those who support they — they provide the chance to hear from those who survive and , through they , the story of those who do not — that we have be able to understand the true horror of what human being be capable of . give the experience of my predecessor in this place , who be target due to her allyship with the jewish community , do my hon . friend agree that this memorial and education centre be more important than ever before in tell the truth of the holocaust , and in remember the 6 million life lose to it , so that we learn those lesson and people never have to go through that kind of thing again ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . like I , she will have have the experience of go into school and college in our constituency , and have the privilege of meet survivor of the holocaust , and watch the face of young people as comprehension dawn of the true horror of what happen , with resolve form in they that never again should that be allow to happen . the power of that can not be overestimate , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for add her voice and support to the Bill . do my hon . friend agree with the Secretary of State , as I do wholeheartedly , about the importance of the positioning of this memorial , and of it be right next to the mother of all democracy , with the symbolism that that provide ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . there be many , many lesson to learn from the dark era of our recent history , but one of those lesson must surely be the importance of political courage and political leadership . those of we on the Opposition Benches know how important that is , and that no institution be immune from the scourge of antisemitism . one of the reason why I race back from Manchester this morning , where I have be at a conference debate housing , be in order to be here today to say loudly and clearly on behalf of the official opposition how strongly we support what the Secretary of State and his colleague be do . my hon . Friend mention Manchester , and as the MP for Bury South I be proud to represent many holocaust survivor , and I have be fortunate enough to meet they and share their story . an institution and a museum , and more importantly an educational facility such as this , be intrinsic to we not only learn those lesson , but to make sure such thing be never repeat . do my hon . friend agree that the good thing we can do to honour their memory and have a legacy for they while they be still alive , be to get this project go as quickly as possible , and ultimately to get it build and use ? absolutely . as a former student of Holy Cross College in Bury , I have meet many of my hon . friend ' s constituent over the year . I know how important it be to they that they hand on the baton to the next generation , and that we do not allow this to be the moment when understanding and comprehension of what happen in that darkest moment of history be lose . they can then hand over that baton , and feel reassure that the future be safe in our hand and with future generation . I thank my hon . friend for the work he have do in stand up for his community over and over again in this place . it be notice in Bury , and it be notice here . with the march of time and the continued loss of survivor , the holocaust be move from be part of live experience to be part of history . as we begin to approach that moment , our generation should commit to teach the next about the horror in our past , and the lesson for the future . that be what this new , purpose build memorial in the heart of London be . it be a commitment to arm future generation against the horror of the past , so that when we say " never again " , they can be sure we mean it . that be why Labour stand squarely behind the Holocaust Educational Trust , the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and the Board of Deputies . we pay tribute to their work , and to the two co - chair , Lord Eric Pickles and the right honourable Ed Balls , who have show that this be not , and should never be , an issue that divide we . as Karen Pollock , the inimitable chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust , say yesterday : " it be crucial to remember that the Holocaust Memorial — and remember the Holocaust in general — be not about planning permission , or square footage , or underground pipe . what these discussion be about at their heart , be people . People who be subject to unimaginable suffering , simply because they be jewish . " like many other , she have remind I that none of we should ever make the mistake of think that this be history . antisemitism do not die at the end of the holocaust . around the world , jewish community have be target by terrorist in Germany , France , Belgium and many other country . last year , anti - jewish hate hit a record high in the United Kingdom , with abuse , threat and violent assault level at jewish child , woman and man on the street of Britain . the jewish Leadership Council and the Community Security Trust be powerful advocate for their community . they have remind I so often of the human cost of this , often with heartbreaking story about the impact on their own family and child — child who go to school behind lock gate ; security guard at the door of synagogue . it shame our nation . this group account for less than 1 % of the total religious population in the UK , but antisemitic hate crime account for a staggering 23 % of all religious hate crime . it be completely unacceptable in a modern society where the experience of the past be still so raw that that be happen every day in our community , on our campus and in our workplace . we on the Labour Benches know that only too well and we be determined to tackle it . from what she have chronicle , my hon . friend remind we how easy it be for history to be forget but , be it not forget , these incident would not occur . that make the creation of this memorial doubly important . do she also agree that the argument about the location have just get to stop ? the location that have be choose put the memorial in the centre of London where it will be visible and accessible to the large number of people . that be what we want . we want as many people as possible to see something that will ensure they do not forget . argue about the location do a disservice to the memory of the 6 million Jews who be kill in the holocaust . as ever , my right hon . friend speak incredibly powerfully . I do not doubt the sincerity of those who have take part in the debate on the location , but that debate have run for long enough . Labour Members share the Government ' s view that it be now time to move forwards with a memorial that be incredibly important to every single person in our country , but hold particular significance for our jewish community here in the United Kingdom . I personally be not convince by the location , but want the memorial to go ahead . if it be to go ahead , surely it must do so speedily — that be the point the hon . Lady be make . if second reading be pass this evening , motion no . 8 on the Order Paper be about pay a Select Committee Chair to come and do a job . that be normally do — it happen with High - Speed 2 — when something be go to take a long time . it be not about meeting in one or two Committees . when the hon . Lady talk about speed , what be she talk about and why be we pay someone ? that indicate to I that this be go to be a long process . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . as I say , I do not doubt the sincerity of those who have raise concern about the location , include the Father of the House . it be right and legitimate that we should have a debate about that , and it be right , fair and proper that they should make their concern know . Labour member believe that this be the right location and that it be important that we do not delay any far . we believe that it be important that the hybrid process be follow ; that be the process set out for the path of the Bill . we can not make that process any quick , but we can remove any unnecessary obstacle and delay . we know that that be the Government ' s intention and we will support they in that . as I say a moment ago to my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , the battle for progress be never win . my father and his generation be involve in fight the race relation struggle . my dad come to this country from India in the 1950 , and deal with racism and discrimination be something that he , I and my family have deal with all our life . it be one of the motivating force for I to go into politic — see the impact of that on people around I and people in my community . that generation go on to deliver the Race Relations Act 1976 , and help to build the architecture of modern Britain that aim to make racism and discrimination a thing of the past . they remind I constantly that that battle be never win , and it fall to every generation to pick up the baton and fight those battle anew . that be what we be determined to do , and that be why we strongly support this memorial and its location next to the Palace of Westminster , within walking distance of the heart of our democracy and the centre of decision making , to show how important it be to we in this place that we never , ever forget . there be many people in the other place who have work on this matter . the Secretary of State mention Lord Austin , but I also think of Lord Dubs , who come to this country on the Kindertransport , have be a powerful advocate for child refugee and be someone we admire greatly . it pay tribute to the work they have do over many , many year that this House be speak with one voice , on all side of the House , to try to move forward . the speaker from the Front Bench have so far be generous in give way . I appreciate what the hon . Lady say about the sincerity of those who be concerned about the location . we in our family have jewish blood , and I do not think there be any doubt about the sincerity of all view on this . would she acknowledge that , while we all agree there need to be a national holocaust memorial , a lot of people within the jewish community oppose the siting of the memorial that the Bill will install , if there be a vote and it pass ? that should be acknowledge . they include people such as Maureen Lipman , Malcolm Rifkind , former rabbi , Jonathan Romain , Sir Richard Evans and several holocaust survivor . I be more than happy to acknowledge that and to restate the commitment that we on the Labour Benches do not doubt the sincerity of those engage in this debate . we acknowledge the strength of feeling and the different view that exist within the jewish community and across the country , as well as in this place and on the Government Benches in particular . the hybrid process provide an opportunity for those concern to be express and for those debate to be have . I would say to the hon . Gentleman that , have work with the jewish community in this country and leader of major jewish organisation for a long time , I be leave in no doubt about the strength of feeling among many member and leader of the jewish community that they support the location at this venue and that they want to see it proceed at the heart of democracy , where it matter most that we remember the past in order to shape the future . we believe that the symbolic siting of the memorial next to this House be a demonstration that the British Government , the official Opposition , our Parliament and our nation be commit to remember the horror of the past and ensure that we do not repeat they . this memorial be a vital step on that path and Labour be pleased to support the Bill today . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , while accept the value of a national Holocaust memorial , decline to give a second reading to the Holocaust Memorial Bill because no adequate reason have be give for seek to build the memorial and learn centre in a long - establish small public park , thereby contradict the Government ' s own policy on environmental and green space protection ; because the Government have not implement its 2015 promise to establish an endowment fund for Holocaust education , which would have spread the benefit of the learn centre around the country ; because the propose site be oppose by many in the jewish community , include many holocaust survivor ; because there be no public consultation on the choice of site ; and because there have be no consideration of alternative to Victoria Tower Gardens since the criterion declare in September 2015 be set aside . " I be grateful to the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for how they have introduce the debate on the Bill . just to clear up one thing that may have be inadvertent , my right hon . friend respond to my intervention by talk about 2016 to 2017 . my precise question be on how it go from the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation ' s specification in September 2015 to 13 January 2016 , when some say the first suggestion of use Victoria Tower Gardens be consider by the foundation . the Government publicly announce later that month that that be what they have decide . I repeat my assertion that there have be no public consultation on that site . I mean to start my remark by say that , within month of my birth in July 1944 , and besides my father get rather badly injure in Normandy , later that year , Margot and Anne Frank catch typhus in Bergen - Belsen . they die early in 1945 . in April 1945 , my father ' s cousin — my first cousin once remove — Dr George Woodwark be one of the Westminster medical student who go to Bergen - Belsen to try to save as many life as they could . they do valiant work in appalling condition . when I hear directly from George what it be like , I be as move as I be when I first read report of the concentration camp , the death camp and the treatment of Jews . that feeling be only reinforce when I go to the Imperial War Museum ' s holocaust gallery . if anyone have not do so , I commend they do so . one only need go there , or look at the online material on the education side , to be remind that the purpose be , as set out by the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation , that we should know what be happen when those who survive be no long with we . there be no intention in the Holocaust Commission report to the Government and there be no intention with the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation in September 2015 that the memorial have to be up before holocaust survivor have die . that be a later creation and justification , and some regard it as pretty weak . I think it be 4 November 1952 — it be ; I look it up , as I could not remember — when aged eight I first stand outside the Victoria Tower and go into Victoria Tower Gardens after the Queen go to her first state opening of Parliament the year before her coronation . I have live in this area for 35 year , I have work here for 47 or 48 year and I be educate here for seven year . together — some of those year overlap — I think I be probably one of the long last people to have be aware of Victoria Tower Gardens as a quiet place where the local population , those who work here and visitor can enjoy the surrounding . I have a home here , so people can say I have a vested interest . I have also get a vested interest in have proper education about the holocaust . since this process start , one of my cousin have establish what we know vaguely , which be that more than 100 of my grandfather ' s cousin die during the holocaust . I do not regard myself as jewish — I regard myself as Christian — but I be proud to be associate with what they go through , which I know be possibly still happen now around the world , whether that be in Sudan , Rwanda , Burundi , Cambodia or Srebrenica . we be not go to stop holocaust by where our memorial be . it be right that we should have one , but the education side matter . the Holocaust Commission recommend , and the then Prime Minister accept , that there should be an endowment fund for education . in the year since , that have not happen . we then go to the Government ' s commitment that , if the voluntary side can raise £ 25 million , they will put in £ 50 million . the Government have now raise that to £ 75 million . the majority of the money should be spend on education , as set down by the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation . that have not happen . the principle of this Bill — here I disagree with the government — be not clause 2 as well as clause 1 , but clause 1 ; it be regularise future payment . the early payment , which amount to well over £ 17 million so far , have be pay under common law . it be right and necessary that there should now be legislative authority for the Government to spend more and that be why I do not oppose clause 1 . if we go to clause 2 , we come to the reason that I table my reason amendment . I should say to the Front Benchers that I do not propose to push my reason amendment to a vote . a reasoned amendment , to be acceptable for the Order Paper , need in effect to kill the Bill , and I be not try to kill clause 1 . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) for support the reason amendment , as I know do many other . page 10 of the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation ' s proposal for a memorial and learn centre illustrate the acceptable area of central London . it go from the west of Regent ' s Park to Spitalfields in the east and down to Victoria Tower garden . I interrupt my flow to say that the inspector , who take over consideration of the planning application by the Secretary of State — this be a planning application by a Secretary of State , albeit one of the previous Secretaries of State — say that he would not be able to consider the Imperial War Museum ' s proposal because they be not detailed . I do not think I be give away any secret in say that the Imperial War Museum be tell not to provide detailed proposal to the Government ' s call for where the site should be and what should be there . the Government be responsible for allow the inspector to come to that perverse decision that alternative should not be consider . the Government , through their foundation — for the foundation be an arm of Government — say , " where should it be ? " fifty place be put forward and one person — albeit the then chairman of the conservative party — write to a Conservative Minister to say , " have you think about Victoria Tower garden ? perhaps the learn centre could be at Millbank . " the Government later decide that they would put the learn centre and memorial together in this very small royal park , thereby wreck it . I say this , through you Madam Deputy Speaker , to the Secretary of State and to the country . if the Government continue with their proposal , they know that there will be a four - year construction programme after permission eventually get through the Houses of Parliament and the Secretary of State ' s junior Minister — I will say his colleague Minister , to put it politely — make a decision , independently of the Secretary of State as the applicant . that will take , say , another nine month in Parliament . we be talk five year from now , so that take we to at least 2028 — people talk about 2027 , but that be unrealistic — for a proposal make in September 2015 . if it be important that holocaust survivor can be there for the memorial ' s opening , we should not be continue with this process . indeed , it be not the one that we should have start with . I make this proposal to the Secretary of State and the government : why not have a competition for an alternative memorial by itself ? the learn centre can come later ; survivor do not need to be wait for the learn centre . it should be a proper memorial — preferably not the one reject in Ottawa , which be essentially what we have adopt ; although the fin may have change slightly , it have the same number of fin and the same interpretation — that could be put up in Whitehall , in Parliament Square or on College Green across the road from Parliament . then , once the education centre at the north end of Victoria Tower garden be go , it can be place there . we know that space in Victoria Tower garden will be need for the restoration and renewal of the Palace of Westminster — I doubt that Parliament Square will be use for that — and we know that memorial can be move , because the Buxton memorial be move from Parliament Square to Victoria Tower garden . we could have a competition for a memorial to be create for less than £ 20 million and to be erect within two year . we could have the opening ceremony with holocaust survivor there , and then later the memorial could be move to wherever people choose . that would not be a rush , but it would be three year fast than the current proposal . the Government be stick on a course that any sensible person could have divert they from at any stage . I invite the Secretary of State to ask the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation to have a roundtable with he , I , Baroness Deech , holocaust survivor and other who be interested from the local community — include the Thorney Island Society , of which I be a member , and London Parks & Gardens — so that rather than shout at each other in public , we discuss the issue together . suppose that we set the object of establish , at reasonable cost , a memorial that would open within two year as an alternative to this process ? I be not say that we should stop the process straightaway ; they could run in parallel and then we could have the option between my proposal and what the Government appear to be commit to . I commend the House of Commons Library ' s good briefing on this saga . it be pretty comprehensive , although in my view it do not give quite enough attention to the September 2015 specification . let we remember what they be . one be that the local authority would approve the plan . Westminster City Council be not go to do so , and that be why a former Secretary of State take the decision away from the council . there be consultation with local people , who overwhelmingly and rationally argue against put the memorial in Victoria Tower garden , and especially have this tank of a learn centre associate with it . after that , either the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation or the Government — I can not remember which — get a firm to go and stand outside ask , " would you like to have a holocaust memorial ? " a load people put a tick , as many people in the establishment have to this proposal . it be not argue . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) could probably give more evidence if she choose to . that be bogus and irrational . then , we come to the planning process , which I do not want to go into . to those who think the way I do , in whole or in part , I commend not vote against Second Reading , but not vote for it . that will show that the Government have not be able to establish large number of people in support of it . we will have a separate debate on the instruction , and I will invite colleague to vote with I on that . when we come to it , I will argue more about the hybridity . I be probably the only person in the Chamber who be present when Michael Heseltine conduct the Labour Back Benchers as they sing " the Red Flag " . something peculiar have happen in the vote on the hybridity of the Aircraft and Shipbuilding Industries Bill , which have be classify by the Speaker as hybrid . the then Labour Government put down a motion disregard that . there be a draw on the first vote , so the Speaker leave thing the way they be . on the second vote , when the Speaker would have push thing backwards have there be a draw , the then Government manage to create one more vote in their favour , which lead to a degree of uproar . Speaker George Thomas — Viscount Tonypandy — deal with that quite effectively when it come back to the Chair , then suspend the House and let the apology come the following day . that hybridity issue cause embarrassment to the Government . this one do too . when the hybridity be announce , the Government claim that they be pleased , but they have spend all their time in the week before argue against it be hybrid . it be hybrid because it affect other people ' s interest . when it come to the instruction , I will go into more detail , but now I want to say , in friendship to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , that he should try the alternative process in parallel . in private or in public , he should say that if we now want the memorial very close to Westminster , which " we " — I say that in quotation mark — do not in September 2015 , and if we want it open before the last holocaust survivor die , that will not happen in the next five year under the present plan . he should think of an alternative , and compare the merit of both . I will now announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the Relationships and Sexuality Education ( Northern Ireland ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 . the Ayes be 373 and the Noes be 28 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] I be pleased to speak in this debate to put on the record my party ' s firm commitment to ensure that the holocaust and subsequent genocide be not forget . we must take step to actively remember . because of that , part of the memorial need to be focus on learn . the particular memorial that the Bill deal with be to be situate in London . I do not have a strong view about where it should be in London , but I have no objection to the Government ' s proposal , give that I represent East Renfrewshire — a constituency hundred of mile away in a different country altogether . it be reasonable that I look to those who be close . I appreciate the range of view that have be express , but the thread that run through this debate be one that we all take an interest in , regardless of our own geography and the range of view on the detail . we all support the principle of take practical step to ensure that holocaust remembrance be make possible . I be sure that none of we think differently . that matter . the truth be that we need to reflect . we need to think about how to make sure that the cold reality of what happen be not lose or dilute as time pass . the remain survivor be few and few with every year that pass . that in itself mean that we need to take practical step to ensure that history be preserve and remember . the hon . Lady be give a powerful speech about something that be not just practically and politically important , but emotionally important . I believe there be a great emotional need in this country to do something to recognise the suffering of the holocaust on behalf of those citizen of this country who be survivor of it . do she agree that we could argue forever about location , but we have a location , we have a plan and what be important be that it now go ahead as quickly as possible ? I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention . I agree with every word she say . she be spot - on when she talk about the emotional , human side of this issue . we be talk about human history — a history of individual , family and friend — not about some unfathomable number of people who be murder by the Nazis because of their identity . it be about how we protect and preserve these individual history , even when the people who could give first - hand testimony be no long with we . I have hear the different view . we must respect those and still find a way for everyone to move forward . the Chief Rabbi have speak about the worry that holocaust survivor have express to he , describe the panic in their voice as they say that they fear the world will forget in the course of time . Karen Pollock , chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust , have say that time be run out ; survivor will not be with we forever , and many who dream of take their family to the memorial have , unfortunately , pass away . she say that those who be still with we hope to see the day that the memorial be complete , and point out that it be important to the liberator as well . she and the Chief Rabbi make very strong point . the Holocaust Memorial Commission be ask what need to be do to preserve the memory of the holocaust , and obviously a significant conversation go on , but that be nearly 10 year ago , and here we be in some kind of limbo while the argument continue and the position probably become more entrenched , because that be the nature of these thing . as I say , I do not have an especially strong view on where a memorial should be locate , but I do have a very strong view that we should not still be in a holding pattern nearly 10 year on . we need to make progress . we need to move thing along and make sure that in do so , we take into account the view of survivor and the jewish community . I be pleased to hear the hon . member for Carmarthen East and Dinefwr ( Jonathan Edwards ) refer to the closure of the Jewish Museum in London because of funding problem . we need to think about that as well , because the museum ' s collection include the testimony of holocaust survivor , and hear those testimony may become more difficult . all those thing come together suggest to I that we need to get on with deliver the memorial and the learn centre , to make sure that active remembrance and education be possible and accessible . we need to make sure that the voice of those who survive be accessible . I have see at first hand the profound impact that hear from survivor , Henry and the late Ingrid Wuga , have on child in my constituency . the holocaust be certainly not the vague memory of some moment in history in the community where I live ; it be part of the live memory of many family . I can well understand why people correctly have a very strong view that we need to preserve the testimony . a holocaust memorial could be a powerful tool for do that . it need to be able to make history come to life , so that we can understand well . I be fortunate to be able to visit Yad Vashem a number of year ago . like the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) say of her visit to Auschwitz , I will carry the memory of my visit to Yad Vashem with I forever — see the face of individual people who have be live perfectly ordinary , pedestrian life before be plunge into unimaginable horror ; see their shoe and their abandon spectacle . it be a very powerful experience . that be why my colleague and I support the construction of this centre . when I be look at the Yad Vashem website early today , I notice that on this day — 28 June — in 1941 , romanian and german soldier , police , and masse of resident participate in an assault on the Jews of Iasi . thousand of Jews be murder in their home and in the street ; thousand more be arrest , and the next day many be shoot . the survivor of that assault , as well as other Jews round up from all part of Iasi , be load on to seal boxcar and transport . during that journey , thousand more perish from heat or suffocation . over 10 , 000 Jews be kill . that be why we need to get on with the memorial . these detail — these thread of history — can not be lose . this must go hand in hand with other initiative that be already do powerful work , such as the Lessons from Auschwitz project , which have have such an impact on school in my area , as have Vision Schools Scotland and the excellent gather the Voices programme — which do exactly that , capture the voice of those who survive . all those have a place in the fabric of how we remember , and the memorial can play a vital part in that as well . I think that in Scotland it would be welcome as one of a range of way of ensure that this information be accessible to people . I hope that the memorial will remember Jane Haining , a scottish schoolmistress of whom I have speak often here , who die at Auschwitz after refuse to leave the jewish child in her care . she have be name as Righteous among the Nations at Yad Vashem , and will also be memorialise by the installation of a Stolpersteine in Edinburgh , thank to an initiative from Angus Robertson MSP , the Scottish Government ' s Cabinet Secretary for Constitution , External Affairs and Culture . that story of Jane Haining — stand up for other because she know that what be happen be wrong — could not be more resonant today . for we to know that the construction of a holocaust memorial be under way while atrocity continue in too many place across the world — the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) speak to we about that — should give we pause for thought , and make we wish to proceed apace . in China , for instance , Uyghur Muslims be persecute , sterilise , enslave and force to live in labour camp . the lesson we can take from a memorial could not be more relevant to the situation that they and too many other be face . we need to ensure that we reflect on the lesson of the past . as the Holocaust Educational Trust point out in its excellent briefing for today ' s debate , this kind of facility also allow we to well confront the contemporary rise of antisemitism . I think it important that we acknowledge the rise tide of extremist view , include holocaust denial . the Community Security Trust find last year that antisemitic incident have reach a record high , with a 49 % increase in such incident in the first six month of 2021 . let we be clear : the climate be increasingly intolerant and hateful . sickening and public display of antisemitism be increase both in the UK and overseas . nowhere be immune , and we now also have to deal with the amplification of holocaust denial and distortion , conspiracy and misinformation in the online space . to deal with that , the most powerful tool in our arsenal be education , which be why the learning element of the memorial matter so much . the fact of what happen could not be more resonant in the here and now . I hope that we can agree to proceed with the plan today . the first holocaust survivor whom I meet , as an 18 - year - old working in a kibbutz in Israel , be Lena . she speak as much english as I speak Yiddish , but we get through it together . she be an amazing woman to work with and for . I will always be grateful for the support and friendship that she give I , an 18 - year - old away from home for the first time . for I , that be a lesson in human spirit and human survival . we be fortunate in this country to have many holocaust survivor who be still willing to share their story . sadly , however , this live testimony will not be with we forever , and their story show we why the memorial be so important . critically , today ' s debate be not about whether we should have a memorial — that , I think , be something on which we all agree — but about whether the right location be Victoria Tower Gardens , and , therefore , whether the Bill be necessary . as we have hear , the Bill would amend the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 , which preserve the park for the public , and repeal the prohibition on build in the park . that would permit the building of the holocaust memorial and learn centre . the centre be not just a simple monument ; it would require excavation go down two storey to fulfil a design that have come under heavy criticism on account of its scale and suitability for the area . naturally , that have cause concern for many of my resident in the surround area and so , as the local MP for the propose site , I stand in support of the Save Victoria Tower Gardens campaign . the campaign be a group of local people who care deeply about this area . they have work with a variety of group , such as Historic England , the Thorney Island Society , the Buxton family , London Historic Parks and Gardens Trust and , most importantly , holocaust survivor , to make sure that we get the project right . after consult those interest group , the campaign have raise several concern about the project , which come back to one major issue : location . location be a key consideration for every development , and it be no different in Westminster . there be a shortage of community park in the City of Westminster , so the loss of even the small open space can have a big impact on the community . in central London , such loss be feel even more keenly . I appreciate the concern of the local community about their amenity , but in the suggest location , the holocaust memorial would offer more than just education and a reminder to the public . do the hon . Lady agree that it would also offer a reminder to those of we in this place for generation to come about the danger of allow a repeat and allow racism — antisemitism — to grow ? that be why the location , although I accept it be not ideal for everyone , be important . I agree that we must remember the holocaust — all holocaust , across the 20th and 21st century ; sadly , they continue today — but this be about the location . as the local MP , and have be leader of Westminster City Council during the planning process — believe I , I see it all , from start to finish — I know that the local people have no problem with the memorial ; it be about the location . as I say , the concern be about the shortage of community park in the City of Westminster . the park ' s loss will be feel . it be important to outline what an important neighbourhood park Victoria Tower Gardens be for thousand of local people , and not just those in expensive house and neighbourhood . let we not forget that yard from this place and Victoria Tower Gardens , thousand of people live in housing association and council home . they do not have the benefit of garden . every single green space be precious for they . I have speak to people live on those estate and they fear that lose their local park will mean their child can not play . go for a walk or for lunch , or do a media interview , be one thing , but lose a family park be another thing completely . there be more than 1 , 000 objection to the original planning application for the memorial , mostly on the ground of loss of green space . I remember that time , and those be genuine concern from local people . the Save Victoria Tower Gardens campaign also note the site ' s important legal function and its role in protect the Palace of Westminster world heritage site . that be an important point . we must remember that Victoria Tower Gardens be a grade II list public park . for this reason , the design of the monument and learn centre matter greatly . Historic England , the Government ' s adviser on historic environment , have raise significant concern about overwhelm the exist monument . the garden have notable exist memorial to oppression and emancipation : Rodin ' s " Burghers of Calais , " the statue of the suffragette Emmeline Pankhurst and the Buxton memorial to the abolition of slavery . there be a good argument , which I accept , that the presence of these monument make Victoria Tower Gardens an appropriate site for development . however , the propose design of the holocaust memorial and learn centre be almost triple their size . the Save Victoria Tower Gardens campaign believe it will overwhelm the other monument , perhaps make they fade away . the design be originally intend for a memorial in Ottawa , Canada , and it be import here without much alteration and without take into account the very different context . the Save Victoria Tower Gardens campaign also have legitimate concern that such extreme development will harm the park itself , and this have be clear from the very beginning of the project . the Secretary of State have leave the Chamber , so I ask the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) , to consider look again at the current design of the memorial and the location of the learn centre as the Bill progress through Parliament . the design be far too large , and it will dominate this public park . in response to the original public exhibition run by the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation , there be a clear concern that the excavation operation will cause significant harm to establish tree and invite concern about flooding . during the planning process , I remember the Environment Agency make very clear its objection because of the flood risk to this place . the Environment Agency have since change its mind , and I do not know why , but it be very clear at the time . equally important be that the scale of development will considerably change the feeling of the park . it be not just a statue or small monument ; this be a large - scale development that will need two storey to be excavate for the learn centre . by its very design , it will lead to an increase in the number of visitor , which will distort the functionality of Victoria Tower Gardens as a place of recreation . local people remain concerned that Victoria Tower Gardens will cease to be a neighbourhood park and will become a civic space , dominate by the holocaust memorial and learn centre and its associate infrastructure and security installation . in the meantime , the park will become a building site for many , many year , lead to a serious loss of amenity for local people and more congestion and noise pollution . along with the restoration and renewal of the Palace of Westminster , resident will have the simultaneous repair of Victoria Tower , the replacement of the Parliamentary Education Centre and a memorial construction that will last for year . my hon . friend be make an intelligent speech , and she speak with authority as the local Member of Parliament . when she talk about the loss of the park , be she talk about the temporary disruption cause by the construction phase ? my understanding be that the park will remain . it will still be there in perpetuity for local people , but there will be a modest reduction in its size as a result of the memorial be build . we be not talk about the permanent loss of the park , be we ? my right hon . friend and I will have to agree to disagree , because this will change the nature of the park . at the moment , it be a community neighbourhood park . it have a playground at one end and a massive open space where local people , particularly child , can play , run around and take their dog for a walk . the size of the current design will mean that the memorial completely change the atmosphere of the park . may I perhaps help my hon . friend a little ? the estimate by the London Historic Parks & Gardens Trust be that up to 30 % of the park will be lose , so this be a major construction . in addition to the excellent point she be make , for some of we this come down to the essential principle about a lack of consultation about the siting . the public be consult and Westminster City Council say no , and the Government have decide to override it . that trouble we ; as I have say before , it be not how we do thing in this country . perhaps that be the central point here . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I be the leader of the council when the planning application be go through , and I remind the House that we be very surprised at the lack of consultation in many part of the application . as I have say , there be 1 , 000 objection to the planning application within that process . the Father of the House be right when he outline the issue between 2015 and 2016 . it be also worth remember that when the Government decide to call in the application and take this away from Westminster City Council , they indicate that they have be ask to do that by the council — that be never true . let I just make a comment on the intervention by my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) . while the memorial and learn centre ' s basement box and bronze fin be be construct , up to two third of the park would be unusable for people . as for the estimate that the Government have put forward , whether directly or through their advisory body , the foundation — that only about 7 % or 8 % of the park would be take — no one else believe that . I thank the Father of the House for his intervention . I reassure he that I be not aware of any local authority that want to have decision on planning application take away from it at any time , but particularly not where such a major application be go to really affect local people , because of the loss of amenity they be go to feel from the loss of this park . I agree that more consultation should have take place , as this will change the make - up of this neighbourhood park . I be a Westminster resident , but many member come here for the work week and go home . they may use Victoria Tower garden for do a media interview , go for a walk at lunchtime or meeting friend . however , I can tell they that the park be a vital amenity for many local people , particularly those live in social housing , who do not have the benefit of garden in their home . take away any amount of space from that public park will be a real shame . I appreciate that this be a hugely complex and emotional issue . however , concern about the Bill be not a nimby cause whereby the wish be to block all development . rather , they be root in the reality that there be very little support among local people for this memorial be place in Victoria Tower garden . that be on the ground of loss of green space , increase visitor number , environmental concern , traffic and the effect on surround monument . rightly , there be strong policy in place about build on park and public green space . it be obviously important to remember the horror of the holocaust — of course it be — and to ensure that the next generation , the one after , the one after that and those that come after should never forget what happen in Europe in the 1930 and 1940 , and subsequent genocide since then . but for many , especially those who live in crowded urban area such as Westminster , our neighbourhood park and garden be vital to the quality of resident ' life . that be why , for I , this be the right memorial but in the wrong location . after 27 year in this place , I suppose I should never be surprised about the direction in which debate go , but it be slightly unseemly that we be spend so much time talk about such an emotive matter , down to the location of a particular monument . I understand entirely the view of local people , but this be a national — indeed , international — centre of democracy , which have world importance . of course local resident matter , but so do the site itself , which have be here for century . I will make a case for the location that the Government propose , but first let I reflect that today ' s debate take place in the shadow of the most vile and appalling event : the unspeakable capacity of human being to inflict the kind of activity carry out by the Nazis against the Jews . part of our debate need to reflect upon that , as well as look at local issue . there be no doubt that a memorial be well overdue , but the Minister may well feel that some of the discussion about location and the nature of the monument be unseemly . I urge the Government to reflect carefully on the debate , and to try to get the discussion about where it be and how it be construct out of here and into a place where a consensus can be arrive at . in the explanatory note to the Bill , the Government say the memorial " will help people understand the way the lesson of the Holocaust apply more widely , include to other genocide . " that make I think of racism , which take many different form . for example , the slave trade be a great stain on our nation , and on other nation too . there be family and institution that benefit from the wealth that originate from that horrible trade to this very day . why do I mention that ? I mention it because member of the House , who may have stand in the very place where I be stand now , fight against slavery , and it be in this House that the anti - slavery legislation be pass . we build an anti - slavery monument . where do we build it ? we build it next to our Parliament , in the very location now propose . as other member have say , the sculpture of the Burghers of Calais , an amazing monument to the human spirit , be in the same park , as well as a statue that be a tribute to the suffragette . where else would we put a memorial to what happen in the holocaust but alongside our Parliament , in the same place as those other sculpture ? I be enjoy the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . the answer to his question be that the holocaust memorial , preferably without the basement box , could be put where the Buxton family memorial be put , which be in Parliament Square . it do not have to be in Victoria Tower garden . I thank the Father of the House , who I always listen to with respect . he be widely respect , but on this matter he may be wrong . I occasionally go to the anti - slavery monument and to look at the Burghers of Calais , which be an amazing sculpture . I then sometimes quietly go and sit on one of the bench , watch the river go by and think about the struggle for emancipation over the century , so many of which happen in this very building . I be not sure that put a monument of the kind we be talk about in Parliament Square , surround as it be by traffic , be necessarily conducive to the quiet reflection that I and many other experience in the park . I want to reflect on antisemitism , which be the root of the holocaust , and on my family ' s history . I have never speak about this before , either in public or in private , but it have be on my mind throughout my life and I want to go through some issue , because antisemitism be on the rise . it have long disfigure so many part of our western european culture , as well as part of our nation . it be a vile , century old , unforgiveable hatred that give rise to the most appalling crime here in Europe in the last century . as I have say , we all still live in its shadow . Fascism and the holocaust occur in Germany , but we must never pretend that antisemitism be solely restrict to that nation . I wish to reflect on the life of previous generation of my family and on what I have see . my ancestor escape antisemitic pogrom not in Germany , but in Tsarist Russia . they come to Britain on their way to the United States . they stop off in London — the great port of London — first . in victorian time , Britain welcome asylum seeker — Jews escape the tyranny of the time . it be hard to imagine whether that could happen today . although that be not the point that I wish to make , it be important to reflect on that . as I say , my family be on their way to America from what be now Poland . they be head for Liverpool to get the boat across to New York and to freedom , as they see it . they pass through Leeds . the old generation have by then become aged and infirm , so it be leave to my grandmother , the young daughter , to stay and care for they — that be the tradition . the rest go on to Liverpool and then to Chicago . I have cousin who finally arrive in the west , in California . it be odd in a way to reflect that those cousin have almost circumnavigate the globe across four generation of my family . let I focus on the Leeds part of the family . they be hard - work cobbler — boot and shoe maker . they work in a small place next to the synagogue on North Street , Leeds . there be a great jewish community there . although it be a tight - knit working class community , I hear many story of harassment and racism , include violent attack . the housing condition be appalling — three generation live in slum housing , share one or , if they be lucky , two bedroom . my grandparent have three child , one of whom be my mother . they live in similar condition . the house that I be bring up in be declare a slum and clear . they be the generation of people who be build a life here . my grandmother regularly tell I that she live in fear of the pogrom , from which she , her parent and grandparent have suffer in Russia . she say to I , " here Jon , I need to tell you something . whenever anyone unknown knock on your door , you kid to be daft . " that might not mean much to member in this place , but what she mean be to pretend to be stupid if somebody in a shirt and tie — a bit like I be dress today — knock on the door . in other word , do not comply with the wish of stranger , especially those who look like they be in authority , because they may well be representative of a hostile force . that be her experience . she have a lifelong fear of stranger and of authority . perhaps it be just one of her foible , I do not know . equally , though , it might have reflect a part of the wide jewish experience . before the second world war , a stereotypical english gentleman who have attend Winchester College , a public school , launch the british fascist party . he be support by a section of the establishment as well as by people from all sector of society . this be Oswald Mosley . he decide to lead his blackshirt through the jewish quarter in Leeds , where my family live . it be a naked attempt to mobilise antisemitic sentiment to distract resident from the post - 1929 depression and the condition that prevail in Leeds at the time . as a Leeds - bear citizen who eventually become leader of that great city ' s council , I be proud to tell the House that Mosley be refuse permission to march through the jewish area . he do , however , rally his supporter on Holbeck Moor , in south Leeds , not far from where I come to live . thirty thousand jewish people turn out to resist the fascist . jewish and gentile , socialist and communist , Liberals and Tories , trade unionist and fair - minded citizen , community group and other rally against Mosley . there be a battle and Mosley retire injure . member of my family be there . my mother and our family talk about that victory , but we do not fool ourselves that antisemitism have be quell . then come the second world war and the ghastly news of the concentration camp , which I imagine even today chill the bone of all of we in this House . I do not want to exaggerate . leed be a tolerant place . Most people would say , " live and let live " . that be the kind of people they be in West Yorkshire where I come from . when I be at school in the ' 50 and ' 60 , we live on the edge of a large jewish community . we get on pretty well , and I do not mean to say that the school be a bad place at all , but there be antisemitic action , language and bully in that school . I be not a violent man — my mother teach I to believe in non - violence — but I will not hide the fact that at time there be fight and there be resistance to the antisemite at the margin of the school , all motivate by anti - jewish racism . as I enter my teen , my mother begin to say to I , " let ' s get out of here . " she want I to go to Israel to be on a kibbutz . the kibbutz seem to offer a different way of live communally , inspire perhaps by some notion of common ownership , mutual endeavour , equality and peace . we decide that I would go to live on a kibbutz , but then the six - day war happen , and in any case we need I to go out to work and earn a living at 16 . think about the six - day war , it be probably worth record that our family know that people could disagree with an elected Government and its action , but that that be not the same as hate a whole nation or even a race . we can clearly see today that there be many Israelis who oppose their government , and no one would suggest that they be be antisemitic in do so . I come now to a distasteful few sentence . when I join the Labour party in 1969 , there be many work - class jewish socialist in our part of Leeds , and I never witness any antisemitism in any of those meeting . however , and I regret to have to record this , when I enter my constituency as the MP , only 12 mile away from Leeds , I be subject to the most shocking antisemitic comment by a party member . it be vile . equally , though , I be pleased to record that the individual concern be confront by fellow member for his outburst and be tell he must never come back to another meeting . let I turn to one further final anecdote . I be out canvass not so long ago in my constituency , which be in the wonderful area of Wakefield , when a man who I know have a reputation for be a Nazi approach I . he be a man who could not control his emotion , a man with extreme anger , and he tell I he be go to fill the street with " patriot " , as he call they , and that they would eliminate people such as I from the area and from the country . it be a terrifying moment , but the police decide to record it as a hate crime and I be glad to say that he be charge and plead guilty to an antisemitic hate crime in Leeds Crown Court . I hope that the House will understand that I have speak in this way in order to condemn with every single fibre in my body all form of racism and antisemitism . the holocaust be an appalling crime against our common humanity . it be right that we pledge today never to forgive or forget what happen , and never to let down our guard for a moment — because , while antiracism be a powerful force , antisemitism be still there and need to be resist . I thank the hon . gentleman for share that very personal and compelling account . I agree with everything he say . I think he say it be his grandmother who talk about the live scar in his family . I can say the same from my own experience . my father flee the holocaust with his mother , father and uncle , who have pass away . my grandmother , who be the live testimony in our family , pass away in 2005 . I understand all the planning and site discussion and deliberation , and I hope they can be resolve in Committee , but the long we talk about the technicality , important as they be , the more we risk lose that live testimony without have something powerful to replace it . when I think about instill the ethos of antisemitism in my child , that be the part that concern I most . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman and I agree with he . with my kind of politic , it be very rare that I agree with anybody on the conservative Benches , but it be good to recognise that these strong pulse of hatred towards racism be share by all of we in the House . finally , let the memorial stand as a reminder of the need to fight injustice , just as our country do in the second world war . this be not a battle that can be finally win ; it be a battle that we need to fight in each generation , and each one of we must stand in witness to what have happen . let the monument stand as a reproach to humanity , that our specie be capable of the most unspeakable crime — but equally , as a sign that we be prepared to sacrifice ourselves , as so many people in our military do , to fight for a well world . I rise to speak in favour of the Bill , which I be pleased to see present to the House for its Second Reading . I say for the record that I be secretary to the all - party parliamentary group on holocaust memorial . the need for a permanent memorial and learn centre to remember the life of those who perish in the holocaust have never be more pressing , and I thank the government and colleague from across the House for their commitment to this important project . before I kick off , it be worth reiterate a comment that the Secretary of State make : the memorial will take up 7 . 5 % of the park . that be helpful context for the debate . I will focus my remark on two important reason why the memorial be need now more than ever . first , as the number of survivor sadly dwindle , our generation have receive the baton from those who experience the atrocity of the holocaust to ensure that the life lose be never forget . without a physical memorial , that task be not only more difficult but susceptible to be forget by successive generation . the placing of a permanent , physical and fitting memorial to the million of life lose be the good way to ensure that that do not happen , especially give that the memorial will be right at the heart of the country , adjacent to Parliament . the juxtaposition of the mother of all Parliaments stand next to an ever - last memorial immortalise those who perish in one of the world ' s bad period could not be more stark . the new memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower garden will be among many other national memorial , and will place the UK on a par with countless other country across the world . it will also demonstrate that holocaust memorial be a national priority that we take seriously . on 16 June , this country and the world lose a true hero : Sir Ben Helfgott . Sir Ben be force into slave labour at the age of 12 , and would go on to survive a Nazi ghetto and a number of concentration camp . Ben ' s father , Moishe ; mother , Sara ; and little sister , Lusia , be all murder . after liberation , Ben come to the UK as part of a group of survivor know as " the Boys " and would go on to become one of only two holocaust survivor to compete at the Olympics , captain the british weightlifting team at the 1956 and 1960 Olympics . Sir Ben dedicate most of his life to educate other about the atrocity of the holocaust . it be unfortunate that , although the memorial and learning centre be promise eight year ago , Sir Ben do not have the opportunity to see it for himself . he say that he have hope to " one day take my family to the new national memorial and learn centre , tell the story of Britain and the holocaust . " I can think of no well way to honour Sir Ben ' s life and legacy than for this House to vote in favour of the Bill and ensure that there be no further delay to the building . the second reason it be essential that the memorial be build be the rise in antisemitism , in the UK and globally . I speak as the co - chair of the APPG on antisemitism when I say that education be the most effective way to combat the appalling rise in Jew hatred . I be delighted that the memorial will be accompany by a learn centre so that people from across the country , as well as visitor from abroad , will be able to learn about what take place . social medium have make it much easy for misinformation to spread and for conspiracy theory to take hold in the mind of many . the learn centre will provide meaningful education , which , alongside holocaust education on the national curriculum , will help to counter antisemitism and ensure that a wide range of people be able to benefit from the teaching on offer . I would like to end by quote the Chief Rabbi , who perfectly sum up why we can not delay the memorial any far . he say of holocaust survivor : " there ' s a panic in their voice . they be say one thing to I . please , world , never forget . they know they can not live forever . they be ask we to be their ambassador . they fear the world will forget in the course of time . we have a responsibility to ensure we will remember " . I encourage all member to vote to ensure that we do just that . I , too , rise to support the construction of the holocaust memorial and learn centre . I hope that we will be able to remove any remain barrier and get the work start as soon as possible . we have hear important voice , include my friend the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , raise concern about the location of the memorial . of course , they must be listen to with courtesy and all consideration . however , surely it be right that the memorial be somewhere in close proximity to the heart of Britain ' s democracy , where we can reflect and remember the most extreme consequence of despotic dictatorship and the atrocity commit by elect and unelecte regime around the world . that must be what drive all of we here to do and be well , and to unite in condemnation of the ethnic cleansing and genocide still be inflict on many people today . the world look to we for our collective voice and our action , and a memorial to the victim of the holocaust be a positive and permanent signpost of our commitment to uphold human right and affirm definitive rejection of anti - jewish racism . a memorial speak louder than the badge we sometimes wear in this Chamber . it be a mark of our pledge to interfere and disrupt when we see mass murder , racial injustice , and act of terror carry out by weak and fail government in their increasingly desperate pursuit of ultimate power over their own citizen . we see and condemn the treatment of people in Ethiopia , the Hazara persecute in Afghanistan , Uyghurs , Rohingya , Ahmadi , Baluch and Christians around the world , but close to home , our own recent past with regard to antisemitism be nothing to be proud of either , and we have hear a lot today about how it be absolutely on the rise . my party in particular have move considerably in the past few year , but that do not eliminate the need to be open and honest about our shameful record . a change of leadership and the adoption of a tough approach be not necessarily all we need to do . when those of we who do speak up be troll , hound and harass , particularly as new mp , we receive absolutely no support whatsoever . indeed , the supporter of our former leader use his name in the written or verbal attack spat at we across the room in which meeting be hold . although the majority of that unpleasant minority group of member decide to leave the Labour party on the election of a new leader , some do shamefully remain . in March 2018 , when the jewish community feel they have no choice but to gather in protest , they choose Parliament Square and peacefully hold placard read , " enough be enough " . while many member of our shadow Cabinet and Front - Bench mp choose to do and say absolutely nothing — present company except — those of we who attend that rally to support our jewish friend and colleague be watch by a senior member of the former leader ' s staff , who stand under the arch as we re - enter through Carriage Gates and write down in his notebook the name of all who attend . there follow almost two more year of relentless call for some of we to be deselecte and remove from our seat , with former colleague and activist journalist incite social medium pile - ons , appear at rally and roadshow , and share platform alongside celebrity socialist . decent jewish woman , democratically elect as Members of Parliament , feel that they have no choice but to step away from this place . we must never allow such thing to happen again . for I , a memorial be a reminder to fight antisemitism wherever and whenever we see it , remind ourselves that in the evil design to create a so - call Aryan master race , Hitler and the Nazis target and murder million of Jews , Roma and gay people . we can not ever be complacent , and that nudge to remember ought to be somewhere we in this House can see and visit . I will end with the word of Karen Pollock , chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust and friend to many in this House — my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) read some of her word early . she say : " it be crucial to remember that the Holocaust Memorial — and remember the Holocaust in general — be not about planning permission , or square footage , or underground pipe . what these discussion be about at their heart , be people . People who be subject to unimaginable suffering , simply because they be jewish . People who be strip of their home , their citizenship and their dignity ; and force into overcrowded ghetto , labour camp , and concentration camp . People who be make to dig their own grave and be shoot into pit in forest and ravine across Europe , or gas to death in purpose - build killing centre . and it be about people who against all odd survive , and make their home here in the UK . " that be what we need to never forget . if there be a tangible reminder on our very doorstep , we have no excuse to ignore the plight of other persecute by evil despotic regime around the globe . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) and her own personal testimony in term of some of the , frankly , in this day and age , awful abuse that too many representative in this House and member of the jewish community have suffer . I say that as someone who have the great privilege when I be grow up : I grow up alongside the jewish community . one of the most extraordinary thing be that , when I use to go to school with my friend on our school coach every day , from Radlett to Watford , never do we think that 40 year later , antisemitism would be in the ascendancy in the way it so clearly be today , as member have speak about . it be in that context that I welcome the Bill , and I congratulate both Front Benchers , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) and the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , on their contribution . we need to bring this memorial forward — I have always feel that . for I , that be unequivocal , but it be astonishing that it be the former Prime Minister David Cameron , many year ago now , who make the commitment that we would have the memorial and cite the location that have already be subject to a great deal of debate today . while the decision be welcome , the commitment to bring the memorial forward — which be absolutely essential — clearly have to be do with a great deal of sympathy for its surrounding . member have speak today about the sensitivity of the location , but it be vital that we go ahead with the memorial , because it serve as such a powerful and sombre reminder . it be a monument that represent the loss suffer by the jewish community and jewish people through that most horrendous and horrific period in our history . it be live history , and we should always remember that . on that point , we should give some thought , consideration and support to many of the leader within the jewish community , include those from the jewish Leadership Council . I have have the privilege of work with the CST and its leadership , both during my time as Home Secretary and as a Member of Parliament . it be so sober that the reason why the CST exist today be still to protect the jewish community while they live their life , day in , day out . I still have parent who live with the jewish community in a part of Hertfordshire and , when I visit they , we still see local private security firm outside the synagogue , drive up and down our road to protect the community . we have incredible jewish school that be protect , day in , day out — as we have hear today from testimony in this House — by private security firm . that be because of the rise of antisemitism , the level of intolerance and the hatred that wrongly exist across society , which be why education be so vital . of course , the holocaust mark one of the dark and most sinister moment in the history of humanity . none of we can forget that , and we do not want any future generation to forget it , either . this be how we improve ourselves as human being ; it be how we learn to respect one another , work with each other and live alongside each other , regardless of our background , our faith or anything of that nature . that cruelty , show in the most systematic persecution and that awful , barbaric phrase , " the extermination of the jewish people in Europe " — it be a horrible sentence to even utter — along with the persecution and murder of other minority group , continue to shock . it shake we to our core as human being , but it do happen in that way , and we have a responsibility and a moral duty to remember the barbarism that take place back then . six million people be the victim of genocide , motivated — let we just think about this — by hatred , prejudice , and an intolerable and evil ideology . I want in particular to pay tribute to the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and the Holocaust Educational Trust for the work they do . I also pay tribute — I be go to say this now — to many colleague in this House , such as those who represent community and those on the APPGs , but also those who have give voice to some of the intolerance that we see , day in , day out , and who champion their community across the country . I be afraid that , even in my time as Home Secretary , I witness the most abhorrent antisemitism . representative from the jewish community come to see I frequently , I be sorry to say . we obviously work with the police — we have to work with the police — to bring justice to member of the community . I recall — in fact , it be only two year ago — that we have those awful car rally come from certain part of the country straight into north London , with the most vile abuse , hatred , intolerance and threat to harm and hurt member of the jewish community take place . these organisation work tirelessly to educate and inform in our school and elsewhere about the horror of the past , the holocaust and other genocide . we should also remember other genocide that have take place , and frequently too . it be important to spread and communicate the " never again " message and to dispel some of the appalling narrative that have exist and the language that be use against these community . the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and the Holocaust Educational Trust do incredible work — we have see this — in organising visit to Auschwitz and in the run - up to Holocaust Memorial Day on 27 January . the Holocaust Educational Trust produce resource on the holocaust and other genocide for use in school . I be sure many colleague have be into their own local school to see this work come together . I have be delighted to forward some of it to my own local school . this year again , I join many of my local school as they hold fitting commemoration , and recognise the work and learning of the Holocaust Educational Trust . the new memorial and learn centre will be an incredible facility for future generation and young people to come together , yes , to be educate and to learn about the horror of the past , but also to make sure that such event actually change the way in which we think , for the betterment of humanity and society . many of we have meet holocaust survivor or hear they speak — I have have the incredible privilege of meet many , and also of grow up alongside some of they when I live in Radlett in Hertfordshire . we have be move by the account of the suffering and the loss . if I may , I will just commend the hon . member for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) for the very strong way in which he speak about his own family background and what take place in the 1950 in particular , which be absolutely shocking . that have go on — we should recognise this — to shape many of these organisation . the CST exist for the very reason of what happen back then , and some of the leadership of the CST right now come from some of those dreadful experience . the story of resilience , the inspirational tale and the fortitude have go on to define the jewish community ' s successive generation . they have experience and survive unimaginable suffering , and I pay tribute to they . I think frequently , give where I base myself now , in north London , about their own suffering , but also about the courage they still have to speak about their experience and the campaign they have lead . it be 78 year since the concentration camp , which be the site of such horror , be liberate , and thank goodness they be liberate . as each year pass , the number of holocaust survivor , sadly , reduce . so we think of they on a day like today , and I think we be privileged in this House to even have this debate to reflect and to recognise the past and the horror , but also to pay tribute to they . I say that again within the context of what we see in this modern day , with antisemitism on the rise , social medium intolerance , and abuse and trolling , which the hon . member for Canterbury have speak about . that be why I think this Bill be so important . I would like to see it pass , but I also think that we have to demonstrate respect for many of the concern that have be raise today ; it be right that we do that in a very respectful way . I personally think that there can be no well place in our country to have a memorial locate , at the heart of democracy , because it be a reminder of how fragile and precious our democracy be . we look around the world right now , and at how the flame of democracy can so easily be extinguish . early today , there be a debate in Westminster Hall on Hong Kong , where people have be flee for their life because of the national security law . this be also about the importance of our country stand up against those who commit such atrocity in the world , and our commitment to defend freedom , liberty and human right . the Bill reflect that in the right way , and I be confident that the centre can be build in a sympathetic and respectful way . I hope that colleague will work to ensure that that happen . that be why I support the passage of the Bill . I know that all colleague will work with mutual recognition and respect for many of the sensitivity that have be air today . I rise to support the Bill , and I speak as vice - chair of the all - party group on the holocaust memorial . I think that this be long overdue . it be take too long to make progress on this important project . it be a project of real significance for we as a nation , as have be demonstrate on several occasion already during the debate . when we talk about the holocaust and the suffering — I make this point early in an intervention on the Secretary of State — we be talk not just about somebody else ' s history ; we be talk about our history and our national story as well . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) who , as Home Secretary , be fearless and strong in tackle antisemitism . we thank she for the work she do in that area . it have be a real privilege to be in the Chamber to hear the remarkable speech by the hon . member for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) . I enjoy listen to his speech . I have no idea of anything to do with his family history . the word he speak , he speak with real power and authority , and I think they reinforce the strong argument that be come from both side of the House in favour of a national holocaust memorial . I place on record my thank and appreciation to the co - chair of this national project , Lord Pickles , my good friend , and the right honourable Ed Balls . the fact that they be work so strongly and so well together speak volume about the cross - party consensus and support that underpin this project and they continue to do tireless work . as other member have do , I pay tribute to the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust and the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust for the work they do out in community , and with young people do holocaust education , ensure that the important lesson of history continue to be learn . I also thank both those organisation for the work they do in Parliament , because they organise meeting that many of we have be to . we have have the privilege of meet holocaust survivor they have introduce we to in Parliament . many of we have sit in jaw - drop awe when we have listen to those holocaust survivor talk about their experience , and about what they see , witness and suffer during those dark year at the end of the 1930 and into the 1940 . they leave we in wonder at how they could speak with such grace about reconciliation , unity and peace . as many member have say , it be their memory , and the work they do , that we need to preserve . we have hear tribute to Sir Ben Helfgott , who sadly die on 16 June . he be another remarkable holocaust survivor who devote so much of his own time and year to holocaust education . sadly , that generation be depart from we , so the question for we be , how do we preserve and continue their work ? a number of member , include the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , speak about visit Auschwitz ; she speak about how moved she be visit that place . many of we have have that opportunity and would testify to that . the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) speak about visit Yad Vashem in Jerusalem , which be one of the most moving and spiritual place I have ever be to . I add to that the Kigali Genocide Memorial in Rwanda , where I have visit several time . when we go to these place , to talk about a sense of history do not do they a service ; they have a powerful depth and spirituality that speak to event of enormous , almost cosmic significance . it be vital to have a memorial here in the heart of our United Kingdom that speak to those event of the holocaust and to the need to learn from they . for I , there be no well place for such a memorial than right here at the heart of our democracy in Westminster , next to the Houses of Parliament . I listen with great interest to my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , who speak with real authority on behalf of her constituent . I be not sure how I would feel , be I a resident in the neighbourhood , but I be not ; I see it in term of the national picture and the national importance of this memorial , and we need to get on and deliver it . the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , speak about no progress be make five or eight year from now — what a disaster that would be . what will it say about this place and about we as a generation of politician if we just go around in circle and can not deliver something where there be such strong cross - party consensus and such strong support ? I hope that the Bill pass tonight with such a strong message of support that it be clear we need to get on and do it . I think the memorial can be do sympathetically . I do not know whether it will take up 7 . 5 % of Victoria Tower garden or a different figure — we have hear three different figure already this afternoon — but my understanding be that it will occupy only a modest space in the park and that the vast majority of it will still be leave for local resident . as with so many other significant development — we see this in our own constituency and region as well — it be impossible to get unanimity on a particular location . my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) mention that there be jewish voice who be oppose to the site of the holocaust memorial . I be afraid that we be not go to get unanimity on that particular site — it be just not go to happen . if we be go to make that the test of where a project like this should be locate , the blunt truth be that it will never happen . there will continue to be opposition to it , but I be in no doubt that when it be construct and people be visit it , learn and share in that experience , they will be thankful that it have be build . we will look back on it and recognise it as an important thing that we deliver . I hope that the Bill pass strongly tonight . this have be a debate in two part . first , we have hear move testimony from member on both side of the House about the evil of antisemitism and some personal experience , particularly from the hon . member for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) . everybody in the House agree wholeheartedly with those move testimony , and everybody in the House accept that we should have an appropriate memorial to the holocaust . that have be one part of the debate . then we have have two well research , well think - out speech from my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) — the local Member of Parliament — and my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , which have not deny the need for a memorial , but in great detail have explain why this sort of memorial and the way it will be construct be not appropriate for this site at this time . this be such an important issue , and we be all unite in want to do it well , so we should ensure that the memorial be do well . I have be to the holocaust museum in Berlin and Washington . they be the most comprehensive , move , enormous edifice . People be take through a whole series of room , explain exactly how antisemitism originate and the final result of the holocaust . we should have that sort of holocaust museum in London . the problem be that this site be so constrain that it can not do justice to the cause and to the issue . we will have to dig down into the park and , while the centre will have two storey , it will have only a couple of room , which will not allow the whole narrative to be develop . that be why the Imperial War Museum , which already have a good holocaust gallery , be quite right to make its offer . there be a lot of space next to that museum , and it be prepared — I be sure that it be prepared — to develop a world - class holocaust museum . I join my hon . friend the Member for worthe West in suggest a compromise . I have ask a series of question about this . I declare an interest in that I , like many member of Parliament , live half a mile or a mile away and of course work in this building . I be conscious that , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster say , this be one of the most overcrowded part of the United Kingdom . literally thousand of people live and work extremely close to this very small park . anyone who go there on a summer ' s afternoon , like those we have have in recent day , will see every inch of it pack with people who work and live in Westminster try to get a bit of sun and air and green . I have suggest a compromise to the Secretary of State and to many other . I , and I think many other , be perfectly happy with the concept of have a memorial to the holocaust in the park . such a memorial could be aesthetically pleasing , dynamic and express the whole issue in powerful term . I be conscious of the superb monument that we already have in the park , which , for instance , detail anti - slavery . this country lead the world campaign against the slave trade , and the Buxton memorial explain that campaign powerfully in an aesthetically beautiful way . there be also the superb Rodin monument , the Burghers of Calais , which explain that story in a powerful way , and the superb Pankhurst monument , which powerfully proclaim the fight for vote for woman . I have always argue that it would be perfectly possible to have a monument fairly close to the playground that would tell the story but not , as my hon . Friend say , overpower the park . the trouble with the Ottawa monument , which we be import , be that it be simply huge . it be a vast mound with great metal spike stick out of it . it be frankly hideous , and it would completely or partially block from that end of the park the iconic view of the Palace of Westminster , which be the subject of thousand of photograph and picture . as my hon . friend the Member for Worthing West say , if we have start the process without propose a totally inadequate underground learn centre and just satisfy ourselves with a monument , that could already have be build . People give the powerful message that we should get on with this , so let we get on with build the monument . whether we build it in Victoria Tower garden or on College Green , as he say , let we get on with it . we do not need to start by build the underground learn centre . the letter to the Times on 2 October sign by eight jewish peer be worth highlight . they express their concern and reservation about the propose project for Victoria Tower garden , which be a grade II list park , part of which be include in a UNESCO world heritage site that we be treaty bind to respect . the garden be under the purview of the Royal Parks , which have never support site such a prominent and large memorial there . its chairman , Loyd Grossman , write to I specifically to clarify that . he say that the Royal Parks " have concern about the potential risk of such a building on the intrinsic quality of a well - use public park in an area of the city with a limited number of open space . " there be concern that if that beautiful space be sacrifice , it would create a precedent that could be repeat in other green space under the management of the Royal Parks . everyone know that the park be frequently use on a daily basis by visitor to the city , those who work nearby and local resident . it would simply be impossible for Victoria Tower garden to continue in its current , useful way if the plan go ahead . the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 introduce statutory protection for Victoria Tower garden that be be decisively undermine . that Act of Parliament be solemnly create to provide a green space for work class people in the middle of Westminster . the purpose of the memorial be to commemorate victim of this great crime , and to teach current and future generation . that mean that we want many people to go there . we hope that it will be well use . there be practical point : the exist pressure on Millbank will only be compound by traffic relate to people access the memorial . we have not be inform of any plan to deal with coach traffic and halting , which put the memorial there would be bind to generate . there be no parking space or drop - off zone for coach . the local Thorney Island Society have state that it be " obviously very concerned at the loss of this small valuable park , because it be difficult to imagine that a project of this size and importance would not dominate the space and transform it from a tranquil local park to a busy civic space " . the subterranean nature of the plan for the holocaust memorial add a further layer of complication to use Victoria Tower garden . this be a riparian location , right on the bank of the River Thames . as recently as June 2016 , 50 local property be flood from underneath follow heavy downpour . in such ancient marshland , it be all too easy for the water table to rise alarmingly when there be a period of sudden and heavy rainfall . further objection can be raise on the ground that Victoria Tower garden be already home to exist memorial of a small but appropriate scale , as I have mention . those incredibly important memorial to the slave trade and to vote for woman will be overshadow . the design remit send out to architecture firm compete to design the memorial include the criterion that the monument must " enhance Victoria Tower Gardens — improve the visual and sensory experience of the green space " . this plan simply do not meet that criterion . instead , we will have an 80 - metre ramp , create a wide moat split the park , with pave area replace swathe of grass . since it be create , Victoria Tower garden have be associate with an uninterrupted sweep of grass between magnificent row of tree , superbly frame the Palace of Westminster and Victoria Tower . if the plan go ahead , that splendid view will be lose forever . I sit on the programme board for the restoration and renewal of the Palace of Westminster . the holocaust memorial project have a direct impact on this huge undertaking . Mr Deputy Speaker , as you be also on the board , you will know those problem well . renovate the Palace will take many year — almost certainly over a decade . to do the job well , effectively and with good value for money , we will need as much flexibility as possible . some part of Victoria Tower garden will be useful as a staging ground for the work that will be undertake at the Palace . we need as much wiggle room as possible . the holocaust memorial would make work on the Palace more constrictive and possibly more costly in both time and money . there be suitable alternative location . I want to stress this point : instead of build an entirely new holocaust learn centre , why do the Government not take advantage of the Imperial War Museum , where there be plenty of room ? this site at the Imperial War Museum be less than half a mile away from the current propose site , so it would still be an accessible and prominent central London location . I repeat that almost nobody object to have a memorial in the park but not the underground learn centre . for all those reason — especially those give by my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) in her brilliant speech — the propose design be simply the wrong design . in its complexity and controversy , it undermine what we be try to achieve . I appeal to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , who have now rejoin we in the Chamber , to try to achieve a compromise . this whole controversy , this whole delay , be do no good to the cause . if he can work with the Father of the House and with Westminster City Council , I be sure that in a matter of month they could come to an agreement to build a worthy memorial . then , in time , we could work with all interested party to create a fantastic , world - class holocaust museum , which would explain the whole story properly . I be simply suggest a compromise and a way forward . I hope the Secretary of State will agree that that compromise be worth consider . I rise to support this excellent Bill and to oppose the reason amendment . it be a pleasure to follow my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , who make a coherent case for his own view . I declare my interest as co - chairman since 2018 of the holocaust memorial all - party group . we have seek to obtain progress on the establishment of the holocaust memorial and learn centre , but progress have be too slow . when we talk about the holocaust , it be hard to comprehend how 6 million man , woman and child could systematically be murder . when I be at school in Wembley , half of my class be jewish and the rest of various other religion , but never ever be we teach about the holocaust . it be not speak about . jewish family in our area do not talk about the holocaust ; they choose to try to forget it . it be only relatively recently that we have speak about the holocaust and its horror . that be why the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust and the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust in educate our young people , and the not - so - young , about what actually happen be so important . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we should be full of admiration for the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust and for the visit to the site of terrible atrocity across Europe ? do he also agree that any visit to Auschwitz or another such site do more than bring home to people how devastating this all be ? it seem to have happen just yesterday . that be why it be so right of he to reinforce the point that these event must never be forget and should be part of the education syllabus . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . like many other , I have be to Auschwitz . I go there with constituent and see the true horror — but today be not the day for remember Auschwitz - Birkenau or any other camp ; it be for deal with the horror of antisemitism . my wife ' s family flee Germany in the early 20th century ; even back then , antisemitism be rife . also in the early 20th century , way before the great war and before the holocaust start , my family flee France because of antisemitism and programme in operation in that country . this problem be not confine to one particular country . Most people would say the holocaust begin around 1933 , when the Nazis gain power in Germany ; although they have a minority of the vote , they be ruthless . the german population be experience very tough time , with hyperinflation and severe reparation to pay in the wake of the great war . in such time , they seek a scapegoat , and in " Mein Kampf " we see exactly where the finger be point , namely at the jewish population . civilian have no qualm about turn their back on jewish friend or neighbour , and we should remember that . they isolate they from society . the momentum grow , and jewish business be attack , book be burn , and stringent regulation restrict the freedom of Jews in the country . we should also remember , however , that of the 6 million Jews who be murder by the Nazis , only 100 , 000 be german Jews . Most of those who see this coming get out of Germany as fast as they could . in 1938 , on the awful " night of broken glass " — more commonly refer to as Kristallnacht — nazi mob , SS troop and ordinary citizen torch synagogue throughout Germany . they destroy german home , school , business , hospital and cemetery . when the second world war break out in 1939 , the persecution escalate severely . the antisemitic undertone have now become grave systematic murder . there be no doubt that the holocaust be one of the most tragic event that the world have see , and the brutal , wicked murder of 6 million jewish man , woman and child by the Nazis and their collaborator during the second world war must never be forget . the condition undergo by jewish community during that time be incomprehensible today . the testimony of survivor paint a grave picture of what happen in the concentration camp : initially force labour , then starvation , gas chamber and minimal hope of survival . Maria Ossowski , a brave holocaust survivor , describe the experience as one " which will haunt I all my life . " even today , those survivor and their family must live with the remnant of their past , to which they be subject simply because they be jewish . it be essential that we commemorate the hardship that be undergone , to preserve the extraordinary story of survival and give our future generation an accurate account of history in order to educate they and prevent such scenario from ever occur again . we must do all that we can to prevent genocide in any form and in any part of the world — the killing of innocent people simply because they be the wrong type of people . the memorial will serve as a national monument to commemorate the man , woman and child lose during the holocaust . alongside it will be an education and learning centre , an accurate and detailed account of this slice of history with testimony — this be an important element — from a british perspective . the hon . member for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) make a key point about what have happen to his family . as he say , there be undercurrent in this country of what be happen in Nazi Germany . under Mosley and his Blackshirts , a dangerous energy be brew in this country . they seek out member of jewish community , who be fearful to go on the street — certainly after dark — and who be verbally and physically attack during the organise rally that Mosley hold . many member who be present will have visit memorial dedicate to the jewish struggle , such as Yad Vashem in Israel . in 1992 I have the opportunity to visit the original Yad Vashem , which be even more powerful than the Yad Vashem of today , because it be more personal and intense . today ' s Yad Vashem be a much big , bold museum , but lose some of the original , key intention . however , the powerful audio - visual exhibition and the story tell by survivor send an exceptionally powerful message to visitor , ensure that those narrative will live on forever as a stark reminder . it be expect that our site will attract half a million visitor a year , which emphasise how wide the outreach of the project will be . the holocaust be fast move from live history to just history . sadly , holocaust survivor be die , and far too many have pass on already . it be therefore important that we build the memorial at the early possible opportunity to pay tribute to those who have suffer in both the past and the present . the long we take with this project , the few survivor will be leave to see the finish memorial . Prime Minister David Cameron begin the process in 2014 , some eight year ago , and we still have no memorial . devastatingly , we have lose many survivor in the last eight year , include the iconic Zigi Shipper . we need to press on urgently to ensure that as many as possible can be there to see this important site open . holocaust survivor Manfred Goldberg BEM recently put the situation in perfect perspective , say : " I be 84 when Prime Minister David Cameron first promise we survivor a national Holocaust Memorial in close proximity to the Houses of Parliament . last month I celebrate my 93rd birthday and I pray to be able to attend the opening of this important project . " the Prime Minister at the time announce that the holocaust commission be to examine what more should be do in Britain to ensure that the memory of the holocaust be preserve and its lesson be never forget . the commission conclude that a national memorial should be build , state : " the evidence be clear that there should be a striking new Memorial to serve as the focal point for national commemoration of the Holocaust . it should be prominently locate in Central London to attract the large possible number of visitor and to make a bold statement about the importance Britain place on preserve the memory of the Holocaust . it would stand as a permanent affirmation of the value of british society . " I could not have put it well myself . however , eight year on , we have make little or no progress , and with the complex parliamentary process it be predict that thing will take a further four year . that add up to 12 year and counting — long than the second world war and long than the holocaust itself . there have be much discussion of the propose location of the memorial . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for her speech about the site . I understand completely her concern as the local Member . I strongly believe that Victoria Tower Gardens — already home , as have be describe , to another memorial — be the perfect location . with its close proximity to Parliament , it will both serve as a reminder to we decision maker to ensure that this never happen again , and attract large number of tourist to visit the site and learn the history . we should remember that large number of people come to this place already , so many will come to this place and go to the holocaust memorial centre too . the Bill will permit Victoria Tower Gardens to house the memorial . no place in Britain be more suitable for a holocaust memorial and learn centre than Victoria Tower Gardens — right next to Parliament , the very institution where decision on Britain ' s response be make in the lead - up to the holocaust , during it and in its aftermath . I hope that we will see detail about the decision that be make , what people know about what be go on in the holocaust , and what we do as a nation as a result . the memorial will serve as a reminder of the potential for abuse of democratic institution and its murderous consequence , in stark contrast to the true role of democracy in stand up to and combat racism , hatred and prejudice . only Parliament can change the law . it be right that Parliament should consider whether the unique significance of the holocaust justifie seek an exception to the protection mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough , which be put in place by Parliament more than a century ago . I be aware that , for many reason , several of my colleague oppose the development . I hope that I can defuse their concern and persuade they that this significant project should get the backing it deserve and that current plan should be protect . the proposal for the memorial include sensitive landscaping that will improve Victoria Tower Gardens for all user . More than 90 % of the area of the garden will remain fully open after the memorial be build . local resident and worker will be able to visit and enjoy the garden just as they do now . far , it be important that the relevant section of the unique legislation that we seek to override — the 1900 Act — apply only to Victoria Tower Gardens , mean that the Bill will not impact any future development right at other site . in response to the many concern about the environmental impact of the site , I be assure that landscape improvement to Victoria Tower Gardens will ensure that this important and well - use green space be make even more attractive and accessible than ever before . the new development will take only 7 . 5 % of the current area , and all the mature London plane tree will be protect . additional planting and improve drainage of the grass area will increase the overall attractiveness of the garden and reduce any potential risk of flooding . there will still be a clear and unobstructed view of Parliament from all area of the park . it be important to note that the holocaust memorial will not be the only memorial on the site . the Buxton memorial , as have be mention , be place in Victoria Tower Gardens in 1957 to commemorate the emancipation of slave in the british empire . for year , this well - place memorial have attract visitor and become a loved and popular part of the park . how many time big than the Buxton memorial be this propose memorial ? it be many time big , and it will completely overshadow it . it be clearly a very different type of memorial . my right hon . friend be refer to the holocaust memorial and the learn centre combine , but the learn centre will be underground . only 7 . 5 % of the park will be use for this purpose . the holocaust memorial will complement the Buxton memorial , be no great in height and with bronze fin design to step down progressively to the east , in visual deference to the Buxton memorial . the Father of the House have suggest that the memorial would be well place at the Imperial War Museum . contrary to those comment , the Imperial War Museum have say it support the current plan for the memorial to be situate in Victoria Tower garden and that it have no wish for the memorial to be build on its site . I reject the claim that the jewish community do not want this memorial , which I can not believe have be put forward and be simply untrue . of course , as with any community , the jewish community be not homogeneous — it do not agree on everything — and there will always be a difference of opinion to some degree . but the vast majority be in agreement that the proposal be good and that there be an urgent need to crack on with the project . prominent supporter of the memorial include the Chief Rabbi , the president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews , the chair of the jewish Leadership Council and the chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust , as well as many holocaust survivor . throughout this process , there have be multiple consultation with member of the jewish and survivor community . at every stage of the previous planning inquiry , individual and group be able to give write and oral evidence , which have be crucial to shape the development . when we get through the parliamentary process , I hope they will have the same right , as we would expect . it be quite clear that the majority of the House agree with the proposal , and we be determined , dedicated and devote to ensure the plan become reality as soon as possible . we must remember the horror that people have to live through during that atrocious point in history , in order to ensure their story be preserve as lesson for generation to come . in deference to my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , who speak early , I end with the word of Sir Ben Helfgott , a holocaust survivor and successful olympic weightlifter , whose word should resonate with all of we when assess the urgency of the project : " I look forward to one day take my family to the new national memorial and learn centre , tell the story of Britain and the Holocaust . and one day , I hope that my child and grandchild will take their child and grandchild , and that they will remember all those who come before they , include my mother Sara , my sister Lusia , and my father Moishe . " sadly , he die early this year , but I have no doubt that , with this memorial and learn centre , his memory and story will live on for his child , grandchild and future generation to enjoy for many year . I support the Bill . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and a privilege to wind - up this second Reading debate for the Opposition . I start by thank all the hon . and right hon . member who have take part in this debate : the Father of the House ; the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) ; the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) , for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) and for Harrow East ; and my hon . friend the Members for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) and for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) . each make their respective case with both force and clarity . the Bill concern a matter that arouse strong emotion , and the debate have understandably reflect that fact , but everyone who have contribute this afternoon have do so in a considered and respectful way that have do justice to the significance of the issue at hand . whatever difference might exist about precisely how we do so , we be unite as a House in our commitment to remember and learn from the holocaust . the Opposition ' s position on the Bill be clear and unambiguous . as my hon . friend the shadow Secretary of State make clear at the outset of the debate , we support the construction of a national holocaust memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower garden , and we therefore welcome the Bill as a means to facilitate its establishment . many who have speak in the debate have touch upon the rationale for create a national holocaust memorial and learn centre . as we have hear , the idea be first propose in 2015 , and it have enjoy cross - party support from its inception . in the eight year that have pass since the idea be first moot , the case for such a monument and institution have only grow . that be not only because of the alarming rise of anti - jewish hate in recent year , but because as the number of those who survive the shoah dwindle and those who still remain with we grow ever frailer , it be essential that we as a country do more to preserve the memory of this unique act of evil and those who perish in it . it be also imperative that we continue to educate future generation about what happen , both as a mark of respect to those who be lose and those who survive , and as a warning about what happen when antisemitism , prejudice and hatred be allow to flourish unchecked . once construct , the memorial will stand as a permanent reminder of the horror of the past , and the need for a democratic citizenry to remain ever vigilant and willing to act when the value that underpin a free and tolerant society be undermine or threaten . we on the Opposition Benches believe it be particularly important that the thematic exhibition that the propose learning centre will house be not only engage and reflective , but honest about Britain ' s complicated relationship with the holocaust . the proximity of the propose memorial and learn centre to this House can not and should not be take to imply that the United Kingdom and its Parliament have an unimpeachable record when it come to the knowledge of , and response to , the systematic mass killing of Jews by the Nazi regime . let we put it on the record that , as Winston Churchill say , only one nation in the entire world fight Nazism and fascism from day one of the war to the last day of the war — it be this country and this Parliament . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention . I agree with he , although he will know of the many voice of dissent both at the time of and in the year lead up to the moment in which we take that stand . as I be go to say , the proximity of the propose site render it all the more important to confront openly the ambiguous and varied response — and there be some — of our country ' s Parliament , Government and society to the still unsurpassed crime that be carry out by Nazi Germany and its collaborator . we have hear about those example today . as the debate wind up , I want to take the opportunity , once again , to put on record our thank to all those who have be involve in advance this project , and holocaust education more generally , in recent year . the full list be far too extensive to read into the record , but they include the past and present member of the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation , include the right honourable Ed Balls , the right honourable Lord Eric Pickles and Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis ; all those involve in develop the exhibition ' s narrative , particularly Yehudit Shendar , who be provide the curatorial lead ; all the organisation that have strive to embed holocaust and genocide education and commemoration in our national life , particularly the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and the Holocaust Educational Trust ; and finally , all the holocaust survivor who have campaign for holocaust education and personally champion the project , include a number who will sadly not now see it come to fruition . in that regard , those of we on the Opposition side of the House think in particular of Sir Ben Helfgott , and convey our thought and sincere condolence to his family and friend . I have feel it necessary to dwell again at some length on the rationale for establish a national holocaust memorial and learn centre , give the Bill ' s ultimate purpose , but as have be mention , the principle of do so be almost entirely uncontested and not an issue that arise directly from the Bill . instead , the Bill be concern with make provision for , and in connection with , significant expenditure relate to the establishment of the propose memorial and centre , and remove pre - exist legislative impediment that exist to the siting of it in Victoria Tower garden , namely section of the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 , so that progress towards construction can be make . I want to make it clear once again that the opposition appreciate fully that the selection of Victoria Tower garden as the choose location for the memorial and centre have attract robust and principled criticism and , in some case , outright opposition , include from prominent member of the jewish community and holocaust survivor . several of those who contribute to the debate today have articulate some of the criticism and objection that have be make in that regard . the reason amendment in the name of the Father of the House set out a number of they . as we have hear , concern about the propose location include the impact on the construction process ; rise build cost ; the potential generation of additional traffic in the area ; security risk ; environmental protection ; the loss of public green space and amenity ; and the impact on exist monument and memorial . when the National Audit Office carry out its report last year , it think the cost have go up to £ 102 million . since then , we will probably need to add an extra 15 % , because of inflation in construction . the expansion at Yad Vashem , which be refer to by hon . member , be complete for $ 100 million , so we will be spend much more for much less . I be not say this to change the hon . Gentleman ' s argument — I be grateful for the way he be summarise the debate , and he be do it very fairly . I thank the Father of the House . build cost inflation be a serious issue , not just in relation to this project but across the country . that would be the case wherever the choose location be if we be to move ahead with the memorial , as we must , but I take his point , which be a good one . we know the concern that have be raise about the adequacy of historical consultation . while the planning inquiry that take place in October 2022 enable all interested party to express their view and to raise these and other concern and suggestion , the opposition believe it be important that those with outstanding criticism and objection have a chance to express they fully and be hear . the hybrid nature of the Bill and the result petition window that will be provide as a result of its designation will ensure that they be . we hope that the Government will reflect carefully on the specific point that have be raise in the debate today . however , it be the consider view of Labour Members that this Bill need to progress and that , amend or otherwise , it must receive Royal Assent as soon as be practically possible . there really can be no further delay if we be to have any chance whatsoever of have this vitally important project finally complete while at least some of those who survive the holocaust and make Britain their home be still with we . I think that would be the sincere wish of the whole House . it be a real pleasure to conclude the debate . I sincerely thank member from across the House for their thoughtful , powerful and often very personal contribution to the debate . I be move to hear such support for the principle of this Bill from all side of the House . together we can put our personal politic to one side and get the holocaust memorial build , while there be still holocaust survivor alive to see it . regrettably , it be a sombre truth that holocaust survivor who find solace in the United Kingdom be pass away , so we can not let this opportunity pass we by . we must pass this Bill . we must ensure that future generation remember tomorrow . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say , the Bill will enable we to keep that solemn promise . through it , we be pursue our manifesto commitment and a moral commitment . it be encouraging to know that there be broad agreement about the need for a prominent national holocaust memorial and learn centre , even among those few dissent voice who have express concern about the site in Victoria Tower garden . what be not in dispute be that its location at the heart of our democracy have an unmatchable historical , emotional and political significance . I wish to spend a few moment reply to some of the concern that have be mention , first , in the reason amendment , and , secondly , in some of the speech . we be oppose the amendment . many of these issue be examine in depth at the six - week public inquiry in 2020 . in his overall conclusion , the planning inspector be clear that the significant range of truly civic , educative , social and even moral public benefit that the proposal offer would demonstrably outweigh the identify harm that the proposal have be find to cause . a number of member , include my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , raise concern about the park and the environment . I stress that our proposal be to take only 7 . 5 % of the area of the garden , with the structure of our learn centre place underground . I appreciate what the Minister be say about the 7 . 5 % . however , do she agree that place the memorial and the learn centre in Victoria Tower garden will change the whole atmosphere of the area , which be currently a neighbourhood park to a civic area . it be our full intention that all activity that , at the moment , occur in the park can continue to do so , and we be be very sensitive in our design of the memorial and the learn centre . on the 7 . 5 % point , I wish to note that the planning inspector , in his decision , record that the figure be agree by all the main party to the inquiry . I also want to say that the garden will be enhance in many way with new planting , well drainage and more accessible seating . it be important also to note that the Holocaust Memorial Bill itself can not and will not do anything to alter environmental and green space protection . the Bill will remove the statutory obstacle to build the memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower garden , it do not provide any sort of planning permission and other necessary consent . these be contingent on an entirely separate planning permission . I wish to pick up on a few other point that be raise . on tree , I want to reassure everyone that all the mature London plane tree will be protect , and additional planting will increase the overall attractiveness . we be take measure to minimise the risk of damage to tree root . flooding be also mention . a detailed flood - risk assessment prepare as part of the planning application have conclude that Victoria Tower garden be heavily protect . however , we take the risk of flood very seriously , the Environment Agency have seek planning condition relate to the condition of the river wall , which we be happy to comply with . the Buxton Memorial and the concern about it be overshadow be mention . I want to stress that the design of the memorial mean that the Buxton Memorial will be keep in its current position and , with the addition of new landscaping and seating , its setting will be improve . the memorial will be no high than the top of the Buxton Memorial and the fin will step down progressively . concern be raise about the interaction with the restoration and renewal programme . I just want to stress that the memorial site be at the southern end of Victoria Tower garden and need not prevent the use of the garden as require by the R & R project for site office . there be mention of have the memorial at the Imperial War Museum . I reiterate that the Imperial War Museum be very supportive of our proposal and , indeed , the chair sit on the foundation board . there be also mention of the fact that the learn centre be too small , but it be of a comparable size to that of the exhibition space underground in Berlin . in the reason amendment there be mention of the fact that there should be an endowment fund for education , but nothing that we be do preclude that . there be also mention of the fact that there be opposition from member of the jewish community . as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) say , we be never go to get unanimity among any group of people , but we be delighted that we have the support of the Chief Rabbi and of every live Prime Minister , and broad representation from the jewish community . consultation have be mention , and the Secretary of State address many of those issue , but we have over the year carry out extensive consultation . we look at around 50 possible site in central London , and there be a public inquiry as part of the planning process . we conduct a very thorough search of possible alternative suitable site . all site be assess against the same publish criterion , which include visibility , accessibility , availability and affordability . almost all the criterion in the 2015 site selection document can be meet at Victoria Tower garden . I thank member across the House for their contribution in this important debate and for their support to deliver this long - overdue memorial . I be not go to continue with the reason amendment on obvious ground , which I speak about early . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . Main question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Holocaust Memorial Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) business of the House ( today ) order , that in respect of — ( 1 ) the Motions in the name of Secretary Michael Gove relate to ( a ) the Holocaust Memorial Bill , and ( b ) position for which additional salary be payable for the purpose of section 4A ( 2 ) of the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding not later than one and a half hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ( notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 16 ( 1 ) ( proceeding under an Act or on European Union document ) , in respect of item ( b ) ) ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply ; and ( 2 ) the Motion in the name of Penny Mordaunt relate to Proxy Voting , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on that Motion not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Holocaust Memorial Bill : Committal the four motion on the Holocaust Memorial Bill will be debate together . amendment ( a ) and ( b ) table to motion 6 have be select . I will invite Sir Peter Bottomley to move the select amendment at the end of the debate as we dispose of each motion in turn . the debate that now take place may range over all four motion . I beg to move , ( 1 ) that the Bill be commit to a Select Committee of five member , all of whom be to be nominate by the Committee of Selection . ( 2 ) that in determine the composition of the Select Committee the Committee of Selection shall nominate three member from the Government and two member from opposition party . ( 3 ) that there shall stand refer to the Select Committee — ( a ) any petition against the Bill submit to the Private Bill Office during the period begin at 10 . 00am on 29 June 2023 and end at 5 . 00pm on 24 July 2023 , and ( b ) any petition which have be submit to the Private Bill Office and in which the petitioner complain of — ( i ) any amendment as propose in the fill - up Bill , ( ii ) any amendment as propose by the member in charge of the Bill which , if the Bill be a private bill , could not be make except upon petition for additional provision , or ( iii ) any matter which have arise during the progress of the Bill before the Select Committee , ( and reference in this paragraph to the submission of a petition be to its submission electronically , by post or in person ) . ( 4 ) that if no such petition as be mention in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) above be present , or if all such petition be withdraw before the meeting of the Committee , the order for the committal of the Bill to a Select Committee shall be discharge and the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . ( 5 ) that , notwithstanding the practice of the House that appearance on petition against an opposed private bill be require to be enter at the first meeting of the Select Committee on the Bill , in the case of any such petition as be mention in paragraph 3 ( a ) above on which appearance be not enter at that meeting , the Select Committee shall appoint a late day or day on which it will require appearance on those petition to be enter . ( 6 ) that any petitioner whose petition stand refer to the Select Committee shall , subject to the rule and order of the House and to the prayer of that person ' s petition , be entitle to be hear in person or through counsel or agent upon that person ' s petition provide that it be prepare and sign in conformity with the rule and order of the House , and the member in charge of the Bill shall be entitle to be hear through counsel or agent in favour of the Bill against that petition . ( 7 ) that the Select Committee shall require any hearing in relation to a petition mention in paragraph 6 above to take place in person , unless exceptional circumstance apply . ( 8 ) that in apply the rule of the House in relation to parliamentary agent , any reference to a petitioner in person shall be treat as include a reference to a duly authorised member or officer of an organisation , group or body . ( 9 ) that the Select Committee have power to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of the House and to report from day to day the minute of evidence take before it . ( 10 ) that three be the quorum of the Select Committee . with this , we shall discuss the following : motion 6 — Holocaust Memorial Bill : instruction — that it be an instruction to the Select Committee to which the Holocaust Memorial Bill be commit to deal with the Bill as follow : ( 1 ) that the Committee treat the principle of the Bill , as determine by the House on the Bill ' s Second Reading , as comprise the matter mention in paragraph 2 ; and those matter shall accordingly not be at issue during proceeding of the Committee . ( 2 ) the matter refer to in paragraph ( 1 ) be — ( a ) the Secretary of State may incur expenditure for or in connection with ( i ) a memorial commemorate the victim of the Holocaust , and ( ii ) a centre for learn relate to the memorial ; and ( b ) section 8 ( 1 ) and ( 8 ) of the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 be not to prevent , restrict or otherwise affect the construction , use , operation , maintenance or improvement of such a memorial and centre for learn at Victoria Tower Gardens in the City of Westminster . ( 3 ) give paragraph ( 2 ) and as the Bill do not remove the need for planning permission and all other necessary consent be obtain in the usual way for the construction , use , operation , maintenance and improvement of the memorial and centre for learning , the Committee shall not hear any petition against the Bill to the extent that the petition relate to — ( a ) the question of whether or not there should be a memorial commemorate the victim of the Holocaust or a centre for learn relate to the memorial , whether at Victoria Tower Gardens or elsewhere ; or ( b ) whether or not plan permission and all other necessary consent should be give for the memorial and centre for learning , or the term and condition on which they should be give . ( 4 ) the Committee shall have power to consider any amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill which , if the Bill be a private bill , could not be make except upon petition for additional provision . ( 5 ) paragraph ( 4 ) apply only so far as the amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill fall within the principle of the Bill as provide for by paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) above . that these order be Standing Orders of the House . amendment ( a ) to motion 6 , in paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , leave out from " memorial " to the end of paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) . amendment ( b ) , to motion 6 , leave out paragraph ( 3 ) . motion 7 — Holocaust Memorial Bill : carry - over — that the follow provision shall apply in respect of the Holocaust Memorial Bill : suspension at end of current session ( 1 ) further proceeding on the Bill shall be suspend from the day on which this Session of Parliament end ( " the current Session " ) until the next Session of Parliament ( " Session 2023 – 24 " ) . ( 2 ) if a Bill be present in Session 2023 – 24 in the same term as those in which the Bill stand when proceeding on it be suspend in the current Session — ( a ) the Bill so present shall be order to be print and shall be deem to have be read the first and second time ; ( b ) the Standing Orders and practice of the House applicable to the Bill , so far as comply with or dispense with in the current Session , shall be deem to have be comply with or ( as the case may be ) dispense with in session 2023 – 24 ; ( c ) the Bill shall be deal with in accordance with — ( i ) paragraph 3 , if proceeding in Select Committee be not complete when proceeding on the Bill be suspend , ( ii ) paragraph 4 , if proceeding in Public Bill Committee be begin but not complete when proceeding on the Bill be suspend , ( iii ) paragraph 5 , if the Bill be wait to be consider when proceeding on it be suspend , ( iv ) paragraph 6 , if the Bill be wait for third reading when proceeding on it be suspend , or ( v ) paragraph 7 , if the Bill have be read the third time and send to the House of Lords . ( 3 ) if this paragraph apply — ( a ) the Bill shall stand committed to a Select Committee of such member as be member of the Committee when proceeding on the Bill be suspend in the current session ; ( b ) any instruction of the House to the Committee in the current Session shall be an instruction to the Committee on the Bill in Session 2023 – 24 ; ( c ) all petition submit in the current session which stand refer to the Committee and which have not be withdraw , and any petition submit between the day on which the current Session end and the day on which proceeding on the Bill be resume in Session 2023 – 24 in accordance with this order , shall stand refer to the Committee in Session 2023 – 24 ; ( d ) any minute of evidence take and any paper lay before the Committee in the current Session shall stand refer to the Committee in Session 2023 – 24 ; ( e ) only those petition mention in sub - paragraph ( c ) , and any petition which may be submit to the Private Bill Office and in which the petitioner complain of any amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill which , if the Bill be a private bill , could not be make except upon petition for additional provision or of any matter which have arise during the progress of the Bill before the Committee in Session 2023 – 24 , shall stand refer to the Committee ; ( f ) any petitioner whose petition stand refer to the Committee in Session 2023 – 24 shall , subject to the rule and order of the House , and to the prayer of that person ' s petition , be entitle to be hear in person or through counsel or agent upon that person ' s petition provide that it be prepare and sign in conformity with the rule and order of the House , and the member in charge of the Bill shall be entitle to be hear through counsel or agent in favour of the Bill against that petition ; ( g ) the Committee shall require any hearing in relation to a petition mention in sub - paragraph ( f ) above to take place in person , unless exceptional circumstance apply ; ( h ) in apply the rule of the House in relation to parliamentary agent , any reference to a petitioner in person shall be treat as include a reference to a duly authorised member or officer of an organisation , group or body ; ( i ) the Committee shall have power to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of the House and to report from day to day minute of evidence take before it ; ( j ) three shall be the quorum of the Committee . ( 4 ) if this paragraph apply , the Bill shall be deem to have be report from the Select Committee and to have be re - committed to a Public Bill Committee . ( 5 ) if this paragraph apply — ( a ) the Bill shall be deem to have be report from the Select Committee and from the Public Bill Committee , and ( b ) the Bill shall be set down as an order of the day for consideration . ( 6 ) if this paragraph apply — ( a ) the Bill shall be deem to have be report from the Select Committee and from the Public Bill Committee and to have be consider , and ( b ) the Bill shall be set down as an order of the day for third reading . ( 7 ) if this paragraph apply , the Bill shall be deem to have pass through all its stage in this House . other ( 8 ) in paragraph ( 3 ) above , reference to the submission of a petition be to its submission electronically , by post or in person . that these order be Standing Orders of the House . motion 8 — position for which additional salary be payable for the purpose of section 4A ( 2 ) of the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 — that the Order of the House of 19 March 2013 ( position for which additional salary be payable for the purpose of section 4A ( 2 ) of the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 ) be amend , in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , by insert , in the appropriate place , " the Select Committee on the Holocaust Memorial Bill " . the instruction motion , table in the name of the Secretary of State , set out the matter that can properly be consider by the Select Committee when it hear petition against the Bill . it be a custom of the House , and a well - establish part of the process for hybrid Bills , that the Select Committee should not hear petition that seek to challenge the principle of the Bill . the second Reading debate that just conclude be the opportunity for this House to consider the principle of the Bill , and I be delighted that this House have give such support to the Bill . it be familiar practice on hybrid Bills , for example with the current and recent High Speed 2 Bills , that the House should pass a motion give instruction to the Select Committee on what precisely fall within the principle of the Bill . such a motion help to provide clarity for the Committee and , of course , for potential petitioner , so that no time should be waste seek to raise matter on the Bill ' s principle , on which the House have already express such a clear view . in this case , the motion specify that " the Committee shall not hear any petition against the Bill to the extent that the petition relate to — ( a ) the question of whether or not there should be a memorial commemorate the victim of the Holocaust or a centre for learn relate to the memorial , whether at Victoria Tower Gardens or elsewhere ; or ( b ) whether or not plan permission and all other necessary consent should be give for the memorial and centre for learning , or the term and condition on which they should be give . " if the House agree to pass the motion , the Select Committee would still have a good deal of scope to consider matter relate to clause 2 of the Bill — notably , the extent to which the restriction in section 8 of the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 should be remove , and whether there should be any condition on that removal . it be accept that there be a principle to memorial , so what about my point on have an overground memorial — like other memorial — but not an underground learn centre ? will the Committee still be able to consider such a detail ? the Committee can consider the extent and any condition on the memorial in Victoria Tower garden , so yes , that can be consider . the establish practice for Select Committees on hybrid Bills be that they consider petition from people who be directly and especially affect by the proposal in the Bill . I understand that the House authority will publish guidance for people who be consider whether to petition against the Bill . it will ultimately be a matter for the Select Committee to decide which petitioner to hear and which point in the petition to consider . the motion be a necessary and important measure that support the well - establish principle and process for deal with a hybrid Bill . the amendment propose by the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , risk undermine those establish principle and process , and could create confusion on the scope of the Committee ' s work , which would be unhelpful to the Committee and all participant , include petitioner . for those reason , the Government do not accept the amendment . I commend the motion to the House . I call the Father of the House . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Minister for the way in which she have introduce these four topic . we be talk mainly about the instruction motion ; I do not think that the other be very exceptionable . I think I may have serve on more hybrid Bill Committees — and certainly for long — than most people , include that of High Speed 2 . I doubt that the situation be quite as my hon . friend describe it . hybrid Bill procedure exist for a reason : to protect the right of those who be specifically affect by a Bill and allow they to put their case to a Committee . by make clause 2 the principle of the Bill , as well as clause 1 — as I say before , there be no controversy about clause 1 — the Government have already spend £ 17 million or more achieve nothing . they be now propose to spend an extra £ 80 million to £ 100 million achieve not very much . I suggest in a previous debate that the Government should consider how to get a national holocaust memorial up — close to Westminster , if they want — within two year . of course , the Government would not , as I have explain before , achieve it in four to five year extra , over and above the eight year that have be use up so far . to go back to the hybridity , it be a matter of record that the Government declare in front of the examiner that this be not a hybrid Bill . they be wrong ; it be a hybrid Bill . the reason for a hybrid Bill be so that people have the right to petition . the Government try to stop that . I think that it be fairly clear to anyone who look at this that the Government be now seek to achieve the same result by use this instruction . it be up to the Government to decide whether the instruction , as introduce , be an abuse . it would be quite easy for the Government to stand up and say what thing the petitioner might rightfully put in a petition and be hear on , rather than tell the Committee that they can not be hear . in addition , because this be a local park for local people , I believe not just that advertisement should be put in newspaper or in the gazette , but that a leaflet should be give to every resident , no matter how small or large their home , from , say , Vauxhall Bridge , Victoria station , along Victoria Street and south of Victoria Street up to the embankment . those people should be tell how the procedure work , how they can petition , what they can petition on and how they can be represent together by a common agent , if they want to be . that be what happen in my experience on hs2 . the instruction , as describe by the Minister , would make the whole Bill part of the principle of the Bill . that be not common . in fact , I do not know of it happen before . the whole of the Bill can not be make the principle , because that then make it impossible for the petitioner to have their case hear effectively . so I think we need to accept that the petitioner will be hear on nearly everything that be not an abuse . if someone say , " I do not want any money spend on it , " I can understand not allow that . that be the principle , but the rest of it , I argue , be not . paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) of motion 6 refer to a petition that relate to " the question of whether or not there should be a memorial commemorate the victim of the Holocaust or a centre for learn relate to the memorial , whether at Victoria Tower Gardens or elsewhere " . I ask this explicitly : can either the Secretary of State or the Minister stand up and tell I now that , if someone want to argue in front of the Committee that it would be well to have the basement box somewhere else and just have the memorial , would that petition potentially be hear by the Committee ? I think it would be a matter for the Committee . I agree with the Secretary of State that it would be a matter for the Committee , but it be a matter for the Committee under the instruction . by the way , if it help those who be concerned about vote and train , I intend to vote for both amendment , but force a division only on one of they . I be try to make sure that these issue will be consider in the House during the Bill ' s remain stage and in the House of Lords as well , where I suspect there will be a degree of scrutiny . this hybrid procedure give ordinary people a chance to have their voice hear , and it allow the Committee to insert condition when the Bill come back to the House . those condition , I believe , could include — I be not go to tell the Committee what it have to do , although I volunteer to be a member if anyone want to put I on it — say that the Government should , before this Bill come back for its further stage on the Floor of the House , show the alternative to the present plan . I do not think we should rely on the planning inspector , whose condition be rather odd before , or on the Secretary of State ' s colleague make an independent decision on the Secretary of State ' s application . I think that may formally be an acceptable procedure , but it be not one that anyone would justify if we be give a lecture on democracy in another country . I believe that the Committee should have the capacity or ability to hear petition that say , " if the Government say that the memorial only take up 7 . 5 % of the land in Victoria Tower Gardens , that should be write in as a condition in the Bill . " I believe , notwithstanding the acceptability of paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) about the money , that the Committee should be able to say that the House can consider the Bill on the condition that the total cost be not more than another £ 80 million , if we go ahead with the box , or preferably £ 20 million without the box , whether at the north end of Victoria Tower Gardens , or Parliament Square , or Whitehall , or College Green . there be a whole series of other thing I could say — I have a long , detailed speech and I apologise to those who help I create the argument — but I think the House will find it convenient if I leave it with this point . this hybrid Bill must be consider properly by the hybrid Committee , which should allow petition to be hear . local people will put their point of view forward . if some duplicate each other , hear they together , but do not exclude any point of practice or of principle if we want to get a holocaust memorial in the next two year . we will not with this process . it need condition to change it . we will not even , in my view , get it within the next four or five year at £ 120 million , unless the Government wake up to the fact that this be stick in a big box that do not do what the original plan want in a place where it be not appropriate . we can do well than that , and I ask the Secretary of State to recognise that that be the point of move these amendment . I ask the House not to restrict the petitioner . the Government have now accept that this be a hybrid Bill , so use the procedure properly and be democratic . I rise in support of the Father of the House ' s amendment for several reason . no one be doubt , as I think we have all make clear in this debate , the need for a holocaust memorial . it be absolutely essential , so that we never forget the horror of the genocide and the holocaust , and a memorial would serve that purpose . my central concern be a twofold absence , the first of which be the absence of a proper consultation as to the memorial ' s location . there be a consultation , which go through the normal planning procedure of Westminster City Council , but we will remember perhaps that the Secretary of State call it in . since then , there seem to have be a process — almost a locomotive in action — that be determined that the following of a proper process be secondary to the decision that have already be make to site the memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens . proper process have be sadly lack . after all , we be only have this debate because those push for the siting of the memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens be inform by a High Court judge that they could not ride roughshod over an Act of Parliament that say that Victoria Tower Gardens should be preserve for permanent use as a public park . we should not forget that . rise — will my hon . friend give way ? the Father of the House catch my eye first . my hon . friend have remind I that the Government now say that admission to the memorial will be free in perpetuity . the same word — " in perpetuity " — be use in the London Act that protect the park from this kind of building . who do we trust ? I agree with the Father of the House : we be deal with serious issue of trust here , and the public trust what we say in this place . my hon . Friend say that he be go to speak in support of the Father of the House ' s amendment , but I be afraid that the point he be make belong to the debate that we have on Second read about the principle behind the Bill . it be quite wrong for he to try to return to the argument that we make early this afternoon , when there be strong support from both side of the House for pass the Bill . I disagree . if my right hon . friend read the amendment , they talk about the Bill remove " the need for planning permission and all other necessary consent be obtain in the usual way for the construction , use , operation " and " maintenance " of the memorial . this be all part and parcel of the due process that have be sadly lack in this whole endeavour for the Government to get their way in site the memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens , come what may . it be very apt to say that a decision have be make at the centre . it have take far too long , by the way — we can all agree with that ; this process start in 2015 , and here we be in 2023 still debate it — but the fact be that due process have not be follow . there have be a lack of transparency , to the point where a High Court judge have to say that we need to debate this matter in Parliament before those push for the siting of the memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens can have their way . we should be worried about that . as I say at the beginning of my speech , I think we all very much support the establishment of a national holocaust memorial . nobody dissent from that : it be about the way in which the process have be conduct , with a lack of transparency and a lack of due process . I almost think that there have be some sort of deviousness in get we to this point . will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to all those who be part of the Save Victoria Tower Gardens campaign — all of they local people who be so desperate to ensure that this vital piece of public park remain so ? do he agree that it be so important to hear their voice continually throughout this Bill process ? I agree with my hon . friend . that be why , come back to the intervention from my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) , the debate on this particular part of the Bill — the instruction — be very important , and it be why the Father of the House ' s amendment be very relevant . the Bill be try to say , " we be not go to consider any other alternative . we be not go to listen at all to any further suggestion as to how we can move this forward . " that be wrong , give that the only consultation we have have so far by Westminster City Council have be call in by the Government . that be not how we do thing in this country . we do depend on due process . we do depend on transparency . we do depend on the check and balance that help make this country one of the good place to live and where the rule of law prevail . but here we have an approach that be shoddy , frankly . it lack transparency , and the process be questionable . the one bit of consultation have be call in , and it be simply not good enough . so when the Father of the House rise to move his amendment , I hope that enough people will support he , and I will certainly be do so . I just want to address a few of the point that have be make . I clarify the fact that it be a matter for the Committee , ultimately , which petitioner to hear and which point to consider . this be a direction to the Committee , but , ultimately , especially in some of the example , it would be for the Committee to decide . on whether to decide to set condition — for instance , on the area of the garden — that would be within the remit of the Committee . there be a discussion as to whether clause 2 be within the principle of the Bill . we have to remember that this be a Bill with only three clause , one of which be about the extent of the Bill , so I would strongly argue that clause 1 and clause 2 be the principle of the Bill . in my mind , that be clear . there be a concern raise that the planning decision would be make by a Minister in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . I want to reassure the House that we have the strict process in place to divide the decision - make principle , so no Minister involve in the Holocaust Memorial Bill will in any way be involve in the planning decision . to use the banking term , there will be the strict of chinese wall . I want to reassure the House that we have do the consultation , as the Secretary of State and I have set out , and that we be launch a very transparent process . however , the purpose of the Committee be not to re - debate the principle in clause 1 and 2 ; it be to discuss condition and extent . I commend the motion to the House . question put and agree to . Holocaust Memorial Bill : Instruction Motion make , and question propose , that it be an instruction to the Select Committee to which the Holocaust Memorial Bill be commit to deal with the Bill as follow : ( 1 ) that the Committee treat the principle of the Bill , as determine by the House on the Bill ' s Second Reading , as comprise the matter mention in paragraph 2 ; and those matter shall accordingly not be at issue during proceeding of the Committee . ( 2 ) the matter refer to in paragraph ( 1 ) be — ( a ) the Secretary of State may incur expenditure for or in connection with ( i ) a memorial commemorate the victim of the Holocaust , and ( ii ) a centre for learn relate to the memorial ; and ( b ) section 8 ( 1 ) and ( 8 ) of the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 be not to prevent , restrict or otherwise affect the construction , use , operation , maintenance or improvement of such a memorial and centre for learn at Victoria Tower Gardens in the City of Westminster . ( 3 ) give paragraph ( 2 ) and as the Bill do not remove the need for planning permission and all other necessary consent be obtain in the usual way for the construction , use , operation , maintenance and improvement of the memorial and centre for learning , the Committee shall not hear any petition against the Bill to the extent that the petition relate to — ( a ) the question of whether or not there should be a memorial commemorate the victim of the Holocaust or a centre for learn relate to the memorial , whether at Victoria Tower Gardens or elsewhere ; or ( b ) whether or not plan permission and all other necessary consent should be give for the memorial and centre for learning , or the term and condition on which they should be give . ( 4 ) the Committee shall have power to consider any amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill which , if the Bill be a private bill , could not be make except upon petition for additional provision . ( 5 ) paragraph ( 4 ) apply only so far as the amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill fall within the principle of the Bill as provide for by paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) above . that these order be Standing Orders of the House . — ( Felicity Buchan . ) Amendment propose : ( a ) , to leave out from " memorial " in paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) to the end of paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) . — ( Sir Peter Bottomley . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Peter Bottomley Andrew Bridgen James Duddridge Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Karl McCartney Jim Shannon Desmond Swayne William Wragg John Baron Christopher Chope Diane Abbott Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker Simon Baynes Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Lyn Brown Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Rob Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Alan Campbell Andy Carter Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Sarah Champion Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Dehenna Davison Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Bill Esterson Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Ford Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Michael Gove Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins George Howarth John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Darren Jones David Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Stephen Kinnock Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Emma Lewell - Buck Ian Liddell - Grainger Tony Lloyd Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Theresa May Paul Maynard Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Stephen McPartland Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Robin Millar Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Mark Pawsey Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Andrew Percy Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall Angela Rayner John Redwood Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Virendra Sharma Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Chloe Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Jon Trickett Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Christian Wakeford Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Beth Winter Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Daniel Zeichner Stuart Anderson Fay Jones the House divide : Ayes 11 , Noes 379 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose to motion 6 : ( b ) , leave out paragraph ( 3 ) . — ( Sir Peter Bottomley . ) question put , that the amendment be make . question negative . main question put and agree to . Holocaust Memorial Bill : carry - over Ordered , that the follow provision shall apply in respect of the Holocaust Memorial Bill : suspension at end of current session ( 1 ) further proceeding on the Bill shall be suspend from the day on which this Session of Parliament end ( " the current Session " ) until the next Session of Parliament ( " Session 2023 – 24 " ) . ( 2 ) if a Bill be present in Session 2023 – 24 in the same term as those in which the Bill stand when proceeding on it be suspend in the current Session — ( a ) the Bill so present shall be order to be print and shall be deem to have be read the first and second time ; ( b ) the Standing Orders and practice of the House applicable to the Bill , so far as comply with or dispense with in the current Session , shall be deem to have be comply with or ( as the case may be ) dispense with in session 2023 – 24 ; ( c ) the Bill shall be deal with in accordance with — ( i ) paragraph 3 , if proceeding in Select Committee be not complete when proceeding on the Bill be suspend , ( ii ) paragraph 4 , if proceeding in Public Bill Committee be begin but not complete when proceeding on the Bill be suspend , ( iii ) paragraph 5 , if the Bill be wait to be consider when proceeding on it be suspend , ( iv ) paragraph 6 , if the Bill be wait for third reading when proceeding on it be suspend , or ( v ) paragraph 7 , if the Bill have be read the third time and send to the House of Lords . ( 3 ) if this paragraph apply — ( a ) the Bill shall stand committed to a Select Committee of such member as be member of the Committee when proceeding on the Bill be suspend in the current session ; ( b ) any instruction of the House to the Committee in the current Session shall be an instruction to the Committee on the Bill in Session 2023 – 24 ; ( c ) all petition submit in the current session which stand refer to the Committee and which have not be withdraw , and any petition submit between the day on which the current Session end and the day on which proceeding on the Bill be resume in Session 2023 – 24 in accordance with this order , shall stand refer to the Committee in Session 2023 – 24 ; ( d ) any minute of evidence take and any paper lay before the Committee in the current Session shall stand refer to the Committee in Session 2023 – 24 ; ( e ) only those petition mention in sub - paragraph ( c ) , and any petition which may be submit to the Private Bill Office and in which the petitioner complain of any amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill which , if the Bill be a privatebill , could not be make except upon petition for additional provision or of any matter which have arise during the progress of the Bill before the Committee in Session 2023 – 24 , shall stand refer to the Committee ; ( f ) any petitioner whose petition stand refer to the Committee in Session 2023 – 24 shall , subject to the rule and order of the House , and to the prayer of that person ' s petition , be entitle to be hear in person or through counsel or agent upon that person ' s petition provide that it be prepare and sign in conformity with the rule and order of the House , and the member in charge of the Bill shall be entitle to be hear through counsel or agent in favour of the Bill against that petition ; ( g ) the Committee shall require any hearing in relation to a petition mention in sub - paragraph ( f ) above to take place in person , unless exceptional circumstance apply ; ( h ) in apply the rule of the House in relation to parliamentary agent , any reference to a petitioner in person shall be treat as include a reference to a duly authorised member or officer of an organisation , group or body ; ( i ) the Committee shall have power to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of the House and to report from day to day minute of evidence take before it ; ( j ) three shall be the quorum of the Committee . ( 4 ) if this paragraph apply , the Bill shall be deem to have be report from the Select Committee and to have be re - committed to a Public Bill Committee . ( 5 ) if this paragraph apply — ( a ) the Bill shall be deem to have be report from the Select Committee and from the Public Bill Committee , and ( b ) the Bill shall be set down as an order of the day for consideration . ( 6 ) if this paragraph apply — ( a ) the Bill shall be deem to have be report from the Select Committee and from the Public Bill Committee and to have be consider , and ( b ) the Bill shall be set down as an order of the day for third reading . ( 7 ) if this paragraph apply , the Bill shall be deem to have pass through all its stage in this House . other ( 8 ) in paragraph ( 3 ) above , reference to the submission of a petition be to its submission electronically , by post or in person . that these order be Standing Orders of the House . — ( Felicity Buchan . ) position for which additional salary be payable for the purpose of section 4A ( 2 ) of the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 Ordered , that the Order of the House of 19 March 2013 ( position for which additional salary be payable for the purpose of section 4A ( 2 ) of the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 ) be amend , in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , by insert , in the appropriate place , " the Select Committee on the Holocaust Memorial Bill " . — ( Felicity Buchan . ) business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Capital Gains Tax that the draft Double Taxation Relief and International Tax Enforcement ( Brazil ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 22 May , be approve . that the draft Double Taxation Relief and International Tax Enforcement ( San Marino ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 22 May , be approve . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) question agree to . proxy voting [ relevant document : Third Report of the Procedure Committee , Proxy voting : Review of illness and injury pilot , HC 807 , and the Government response , HC 1325 ; correspondence from the Procedure Committee to the Leader of the House , on the proxy voting : review of illness and injury pilot , report to the House on 7 June 2023 . ] I beg to move , that — ( 1 ) this House ( a ) note the Third Report from the Procedure Committee , on Proxy voting : Review of illness and injury pilot ( HC 807 ) , and , subject to paragraph ( 2 ) of this motion , approve the recommendation relate to extend the scheme on an ongoing basis and absence from the parliamentary estate in paragraph 6 , 7 , 18 and 19 of that report . ( b ) endorse the proposal relate to the evidence require to obtain a proxy vote and the duration of such a vote set out in the letter date 8 June from the Procedure Committee to the Leader of the House relate to arrangement for proxy voting for member with a serious long - term illness or injury , and direct the Speaker to amend the scheme govern the operation of proxy voting in accordance with those proposal with effect from 11 September . ( 2 ) the amendment to Standing Order no . 39a ( vote by proxy ) make by the Orders of 12 October 2022 ( vote by proxy ( amendment and extension ) ) and 26 April 2023 ( vote by proxy ( extension of pilot arrangement ) ) shall have effect for the duration of the present Parliament . order . will those leave please do so quietly so that we can hear the Leader of the House ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . follow a successful pilot scheme and consider review by the Procedure Committee , the House be ask to approve a change to the Standing Orders to extend proxy voting to member suffer long - term illness or injury until the end of this Parliament . the House be also ask to endorse further recommendation from the Procedure Committee to ensure that appropriate and suitably robust arrangement be put in place for member who wish to apply for a proxy vote . it recommend that member who avail themselves of the proxy voting system for reason of long - term illness or injury must provide a certificate from a hospital consultant , and that any such proxy vote can be hold for a maximum duration of seven month , with the possibility of further extension if recommend by both the consultant and the parliamentary health and wellbeing service . to give time for Mr Speaker to amend the scheme and for any affected member to gather the necessary paperwork , the change — if agree — will take effect from 11 September . the Government want to support a more inclusive culture and working environment in Parliament , and welcome the Procedure Committee ' s conclusion that the pilot have be a success . I be grateful to all Committee member and its Chair , my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) , for all their work on this issue . in change the procedure of this House , we must maintain the transparency of the voting process and ensure that the electorate can hold member to account for the performance of their parliamentary duty . I believe that the scheme , as amend , satisfy those priority while provide sensible accommodation for member , enable they to discharge their responsibility when prevent from do so for reason of long - term illness or injury . change to the rule govern this House must be introduce with care . extend the scheme to the end of this Parliament , rather than in perpetuity , will allow the House to consider and monitor its operation and consider any change . I hope that the measure carry the support of member . I thank colleague for all the work do on the scheme , and I commend the motion to the House . I thank the Leader of the House for bring forward this important motion . I join she in thank the Chair of the Procedure Committee , her colleague and the Committee staff for all of their hard work on proxy voting over many month . they have handle the issue sensitively and thoroughly . I support the motion before we in the name of the Leader of the House . I have speak before about the importance of member be able to fulfil their core duty to vote on behalf of the people they represent even if they have a serious long - term condition or injury that prevent they from come to the estate . it be right that colleague who be suffer be able to recover properly in their own home . I pay tribute to the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) , who be not in her place today , who have do so much to champion this cause . it be right that we make this change for colleague who might otherwise have drag themselves into Parliament — as we have all know someone do — when it be probably unwise , or who have stay at home because they have to and feel terrible about it . the process that we be debate aim to fix that . the Committee ' s report note that the pilot scheme , which extend the eligibility for proxy voting , have enable several member to vote who would otherwise have be unable to do so . I be glad that they be able to continue represent their constituent in that way . it be welcome progress , and I support the extension of the scheme . the Committee have carefully consider the principle of absence from the estate in eligibility for a proxy vote . that have be an essential element of the rationale for proxy voting in general since its introduction in 2019 . there have be some deliberation on remove that principle from the Standing Orders . the intention be that member who be well enough to come in and participate in some of the day ' s parliamentary proceeding can do so , and will not then be ineligible for a proxy vote if they can not stay until a late vote or be not physically well enough to participate in a busy voting Lobby . the Committee have issue welcome clarification state that it should not become commonplace , and I agree . it have provide a helpful example of an MP who may be well enough to come in for an urgent question of particular relevance to their constituency , but then need to go home . it seem that the Committee have work through the issue and strike the right balance . I wish to put it on the record that , for some , proxy voting be not suitable , and there be other way of manage absence . I be reassure to see that there be no propose change to the mechanism that exist as political arrangement between the Whips ' office . that also cover concern about privacy that some have raise . that be important . where they wish to do so , member should — and under the propose arrangement , still can — choose a more discreet pairing option or be nod through . I can attest to the value of that option , as I use it in my first year here when I have a serious illness , and I be glad that it remain . Parliament ought to be a model workplace , at the forefront of right at work and accessibility , but it be also , crucially and exclusively , the centre of our democracy and a representation of that principle . I believe that the motion strike the right balance between those principle and the unique requirement of an MP . it be proportionate and welcome , and I be glad to support it today . I be of the view that what can not be say in five minute be probably be not worth say at all , so I will be brief , but it be incumbent on I to speak on behalf of the Chair of the Procedure Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) , for whom I have the high admiration , have be a member of her Committee since enter Parliament three and half year ago . we know that proxy voting be a formal arrangement that allow member who be absent on baby leave to have another Member register a vote on their behalf , but there have be repeat call to review the process , and rightly so . follow the Procedure Committee report on the extension of eligibility for proxy voting to include serious long - term illness and injury , the House agree to a pilot scheme , which run early this year . it be successful , and the Committee be direct to review the operation of the pilot and make a report , which we have do . since then , as we know , the Government have table the motion to give effect to some of the recommendation make by the Committee in its report and in its subsequent letter to the Leader of the House in June . if I can , I will make the key proposal completely clear . first , the Procedure Committee recommend that the House extend eligibility for proxy voting to include serious long - term illness and injury on an ongoing basis . if pass , this motion will have effect until the end of this Parliament , but it be subject to wide review . the new arrangement will require a note from a hospital consultant , rather than a gp . that be because we think that reset the expectation at a level where a Member have require hospital care or be under the care of a consultant be about right . occupational health will now play a role in the initial review of note provide , seek further information if necessary . that be important because Mr Speaker be ultimately responsible for make the call , and he need assurance from a professional body to do that . a proxy vote for illness or injury will be allow for a maximum of seven month , although it can be extend in certain circumstance and certification will remain with the Speaker . I think what we be discuss today be reasonably clear , and I be happy to support the motion . the pilot have be useful and I be pleased to have be part of it as a member of the Procedure Committee . in recent month , member have be able to exercise their vote when they might not otherwise have have the opportunity to do so , so it be a positive thing . the proposal bring this place into line with human resource arrangement in other location . we be a modern employer ; we have to be a modern employer and we have to befit the role a modern employer play . the proposal also allow discretion and privacy , which be important . the ability to register a proxy vote enable those who have a good medical reason not to come on to the estate to maintain their privacy and keep that reason from become more widely know . this be about do the right thing as a good employer , and of course it be subject to review . I thank the Leader of the House for move the motion this evening . we in the SNP support the recommendation make in the Procedure Committee ' s report and in its subsequent letter to the Leader of the House . we thank the member of the Committee for their effort . proxy voting work . we see that with the measure put in place during the pandemic and with the current pilot for member suffer from injury or long - term ill health . it have enable several member to fulfil their responsibility to vote in Divisions when they would otherwise have be unable to do so . I , too , pay special tribute to my hon . friend the Member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) , and I thank the shadow Leader of the House for her acknowledgement of my hon . friend ' s effort . she have be a trailblazer on this issue in many way , bravely and eloquently draw on her own very challenging experience of serious illness to advocate for these reform and for many other necessary improvement to accessibility in this place . proxy voting be a simple , common - sense and reasonable adjustment that allow member to fulfil their obligation to their constituent without put their health at risk . it be about ensure equality and inclusivity for elect member , and enable they to do their job . the introduction of this reform on a permanent basis be long overdue , but very welcome . I thank the Leader of the House for move the motion and for accept the recommendation of the Procedure Committee , of which I be pleased to be a member . the idea of extend proxy voting far be not entirely without controversy . some people be very concerned about it — understandably , give that we be mean to be a Parliament where people gather and exchange view , and our voting system be design to ensure that member vote in person rather than via a proxy . our task be to consider whether we should allow a proxy vote for member who be suffer from a long - term illness or a serious injury ; it be not to take into account those who have a short - term illness or be travel on parliamentary business , or who feel that this be an adaptation they need in the long term for career reason . I think it fair to say that the trial be a success , but I also think there be evidence that some people be secure proxy in circumstance that be not envisage in the creation of a scheme for those with serious long - term illness . we have always intend this to be a temporary measure allow those who could not attend Parliament because they be too ill to have their voice hear at least in the voting Lobbies . the expectation be that at some point , they would come back and vote in the normal way . personally , I would be sympathetic to allow a proxy vote as a long - term adaptation for someone who be not fit to be here for the whole day , which I think be reasonable , but that be not what the Committee be task to do , and it would have to be the subject of further work if the House so wish . there be some tweak in the report . the requirement to produce a letter from any medical professional have be change to a requirement to produce a letter from a consultant , to emphasise our expectation that a proxy vote would be use in the event of a serious illness probably involve hospital care . there be now the expectation of a seven - month time limit , intend to be in line with the arrangement for statutory sick pay , so we be not try to make arrangement for member that be different from those in the real world . this be mean to be a temporary situation from which member will eventually emerge . the insertion of the reference to an occupational health review be an attempt to help Mr Speaker , with his discretion , to work out whether an application be actually relate to a serious long - term illness . if member want the scheme to be a success and to be a permanent feature , I urge they not to apply for it on the ground of a short - term illness or to extend maternity leave . they should not be speak regularly in the Chamber and voting by proxy unless there be a very exceptional circumstance . they should not be at drink do on the parliamentary estate and voting by proxy . that be not what the scheme be intend for . it be intend for member who be too ill to be here . we consider whether there could be a very prescriptive scheme , with a list of condition that be serious enough to be cover , but we work out pretty quickly that we would probably be come back here every few week to add a new condition that we have miss , which would leave Mr Speaker far too fetter in his discretion . we also accept the persuasive evidence we hear that a member in the final stage of recovery from an illness might be able to come back to work part time but might not be able to be here for a long night of vote into the early hour , and that there be clearly merit in the Speaker ' s have discretion to enable the Member to speak in the Chamber without have to be here for hour when they be not fit to be . the shadow Leader of the House talk about the principle of a proxy vote be available only to those who be generally not on the parliamentary estate , but , as she note , we do not include that as an absolute rule . if there be an emergency in a Member ' s constituency , the Member may want to break their leave and speak about it , but generally member will be absent and will not be here for the whole day , or the whole week , or the whole month . that be the balance we be try to strike . we be try to find a way to enable Mr Speaker to use his discretion to ensure that the scheme be not be abuse , and to ensure that , generally , member who be fit to be here should be vote in person , while those who be not fit to be here can vote by proxy . that be what we be try to achieve , and I urge member who make application to stick to the spirit of it . I suspect we will have another review by the end of the Parliament so that we can see whether proxy voting should become a permanent fixture after the next election . I certainly hope that when we get the next review , we will see that the people who be use proxy voting have be stick to the spirit and the intention of it , and that that will enable it to become a permanent feature . I very much support the motion and , as a member of the Procedure Committee , have be involve in some of the discussion of it . one of the most important element be that the amendment to the Standing Order be make only for the duration of this Parliament . my concern , which I express during the Committee ' s discussion , be that it be fine when we have a Government with a large work majority — people will not be too fuss about issue such as whether somebody with a medical condition who be on the estate be also able to have a proxy vote — but if , after the next general election , the balance between the Government and the opposition be much close , or there be even a hung Parliament , I can see that difficulty might arise and the Members of the new Parliament might want more rigour write into the Standing Order than I think there be in the current version . that be why it be important that the amendment be make only for the duration of this Parliament . I hope that , during the rest of this Parliament , there will be an attempt on both side of the House to see whether we can introduce some rigour and consistency into the way in which people with medical condition can access proxy and the circumstance in which they can not . the motion be also valuable because , by inference , it exclude any suggestion that people who be temporarily suspend from the House for conduct unbecoming should be able to creep back in through the proxy voting system . People who be absent from the House because of their own conduct , which be nothing to do with health or baby leave , should under no circumstance be able to exercise a proxy vote . the motion do not facilitate that ; I think , by inference , it exclude it . as I say in an early debate , if we allow people who be exclude from the estate because of conduct unbecoming to have proxy vote , that will contaminate the whole process . I be grateful to the Leader of the House for not contaminate this amendment to the Standing Order . I again thank the Procedure Committee and all right hon . and hon . member who have work with it to produce the proxy voting scheme . I hope that member will support the motion . I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . House of Commons Commission ( External Member ) [ relevant document : House of Commons Commission , external member of the House of Commons Commission : nomination of candidate , HC 1377 . ] I beg to move , that , in pursuance of section 1 ( 2b ) of the House of Commons ( Administration ) Act 1978 , as amend , Catherine Ward be appoint to the House of Commons Commission for a period of 18 month with immediate effect . I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in thank Louise Wilson , who serve as an external member on the House of Commons Commission from June 2021 to November 2022 . I wish she well in the future . the Commission recommend that the House appoint Catherine Ward as an external member for an initial period of 18 month , with the possibility to extend for a further two year . I hope that the House will agree to her appointment today . I commend the motion to the House . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I rise briefly to support the motion . as the overall supervisory body of the House of Commons administration , the House of Commons Commission ' s agenda be jam - pack . it really do matter that we get these appointment right , and I believe that we have really get it right with Catherine ' s appointment . we have a great deal of duty . we have be work hard on the introduction of a complex process to increase the safety of those on the estate , include risk - base exclusion . we have commission a review of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme . we have important work to do , not just for how this place work but for how the public view we . give the importance of their work , it be important that external member of the House of Commons Commission be well test , carefully select and able to bring extensive relevant experience to the Commission , and I can confirm that that be the case with this appointment . I be part of the thorough and fair recruitment process , which be lead by a strong panel . Catherine be find to be the good candidate , with an effective mix of skill and knowledge that be correct for the Commission ' s work . with experience of be a non - executive director and a background in people management role at board level , we believe she will bring a diverse range and depth of experience . I look forward to warmly welcome Catherine as an external member of the House of Commons Commission . I call the SNP spokesperson . I offer my congratulation to Catherine Ward on her appointment , assume she be confirm tonight . I warmly welcome she to the role as an external member of the House of Commons Commission . her career background be tremendously impressive , with experience in the creative , education and healthcare sector , among other . she have a wealth of knowledge and expertise acquire from a diverse range of role , so I be confident she will bring a unique perspective to the Commission . she also bring intimate knowledge of this place from her role as a non - executive director of human resource policy and the strategic support group at the House of Commons , and I be sure the other commissioner be look forward to work with she . question put and agree to . business without Debate Sittings in Westminster Hall Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 6 ) ) , that the follow amendment to Standing Order no . 10 ( sitting in Westminster Hall ) be make : in paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) , leave out " be between 9 . 30am and 2 . 30pm " and insert " begin at 11 . 30am , be suspend from 1 . 30pm till 4 . 30pm and may then continue for up to a further three hour " . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) question agree to . Standing Orders etc . ( Independent Expert Panel ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 6 ) ) , that — ( 1 ) Standing Order no . 150A ( Independent Expert Panel ) be amend as follow : ( a ) in paragraph ( 1 ) , insert " and Chair " after " member " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , leave out " eight " and insert " its Chair and seven other " ; and ( c ) in paragraph ( 4 ) , leave out " the Panel may elect its own Chair . " and insert " if the position of Chair of the Panel become vacant , the Panel may elect an interim Chair for the period of vacancy , who shall be entitle to exercise all power vest in a Chair appoint in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) of this order . " ; ( 2 ) Standing Order no . 150C ( Appointment of Independent Expert Panel Members ) be amend as follow : ( a ) in the title , leave out " member " and insert " Chair and member " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( 1 ) , leave out " member of the Independent Expert Panel shall be appoint by a resolution of the House on a motion " and insert " the member of the Independent Expert Panel shall be appoint by resolution of the House on motion " ; ( c ) at the end of paragraph ( 5 ) , insert " a member of the panel may apply to be appoint to the position of Chair for the remainder of their original period of appointment . " ; and ( d ) after paragraph ( 7 ) , insert new paragraph as follow : " ( ) in this order , the term " member " include the Chair of the Panel , and provision relate to period of appointment apply to the total length of service on the Panel in any capacity . " . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) question agree to . New Covid Variants : Government Preparedness Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Fay Jones . ) I rise to address this Government ' s preparedness for new covid - 19 variant and other biological threat . base on past experience , it be fair to say I be yet to be convince that this Government be make the necessary progress in this regard . I will first address the Government ' s culture before move on to extant concern specific to pandemic preparedness . Hindsight be of value only if we be prepared to use the lesson it reveal to ensure that the same mistake or misjudgment be not repeat . when it come to calamity and loss , vindication bring only a bitter taste , not solace or comfort . for those of we in this place , and beyond , who voice genuinely hold concern about the UK Government ' s response to the pandemic , yesterday ' s evidence to the covid inquiry from the former Health Secretary be unlikely to elicit any sense of schadenfreude — just a deep sense of despair and sadness . the former Health Secretary ' s testimony do not reflect well on those expert who allegedly give he deeply flawed advice but , ultimately , he accept that he alone carry ministerial responsibility for the " calamitous state of affair " not only in his Department but in the agency that report to he , as Secretary of State . in short , he admit that , when courage call , he fail to execute the responsibility of his office . he be , of course , correct , but his apology ring hollow and do nothing to ameliorate the damage cause . my abide memory of the pandemic be the former Health Secretary ' s all - too - frequent glib response from the Dispatch Box to question intend to be helpful and constructive . I could devote further commentary to his shocking testimony , but I suggest that might be well serve by a Privileges Committee inquiry or other serious investigation . the shutting down of dissent voice be all too commonplace , and not just in this place . Innova , the beneficiary of lucrative lateral flow test contract , put pressure on the Scotsman for dare to publish my valid criticism of the reliability of its test . despite scrupulously evidence my assertion , with the support of esteemed academic , the editorial team could not withstand the very deep pocket that Innova have , on the back of billion of pound of public money spend on its device . in addition , pressure be apply to academic and clinical staff who raise concern about the adequacy of the UK Government ' s pandemic response . although I readily give my thank to those staff for their ongoing encouragement and support , I be unable to name they , such be my concern that we be not yet out of the wood in term of truth and reconciliation on these matter . that such a culture be allow to flourish at a time of grave emergency be detestable . although it be clear that the UK Government must change , I see few earnest attempt to do so . I have ask too many question on these matter to count , and I have lead and contribute to multiple debate in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall , but much of that be for naught . concern go ignore and commitment be readily discard , even by those few soul who maintain a position during the ministerial churn from Prime Minister to Prime Minister to Prime Minister . this may seem tangential to the matter at hand , but government culture be central to organisational learning for future preparedness . in its basic form , the management of any infection be not rocket science , but each strand be necessarily interdependent and must be rigorous in both design and application . the continue failure to understand that fundamental relationship will fatally undermine any strategic future planning . in essence , robust surveillance and detection should lead to prompt isolation of the threat , follow by the administration of safe and effective treatment , and support measure , with further screening and surveillance repeat until the threat be manage . get any step of that process wrong and the risk quickly spiral out of control . rely on detection and isolation alone will not work . as we know only too well , an over - reliance on vaccination in the absence of robust surveillance be , similarly , a fool ' s errand . a recent briefing from the House of Commons Library set out the ambition of the UK Health Security Agency and its Centre for Pandemic Preparedness . the CPP aim to ensure the UK ' s future pandemic response be effective and efficient , and that they reduce the negative impact of health threat . the CCP aim to become the world - lead hub for all aspect of pandemic preparedness . in addition , the briefing note that the HSA be work in partnership with the United States Centres for Disease Control and Prevention to turbocharge effort to combat global pandemic and emerge health threat . those be grand claim , grandiose perhaps , but the question remain : what do this mean in the practice of disease management and control ? in my Adjournment debate on the UK diagnostic industry in May last year , I voice my concern about the UK ' s lack of preparedness for a future pandemic strategy , whereas economy the world over be develop 10 - year strategy for the same . I applaud the effort of the HSA in conceptualise a detailed report and a tentative timeline to execute a 10 - year science strategy . it emphasise transform surveillance through genomic identification and characterisation of new covid - 19 variant , and promote the use of innovative diagnostic , which be promise step in the direction I indicate last year . however , there be still clamant concern to be address on the implementation of this plan and the efficacy of the HSA as an institution to deliver on those ambition . first , the partnership section on page 31 of the strategy report that a " 10 - year strategic collaboration with Moderna will ensure we be well prepared against future pandemic threat , include through an onshore mrna Innovation and Technology Centre . " what be the basis of this " focused partnership " between the HSA and this single specific pharmaceutical company and a single specific vaccine technology ? recall the Valneva vaccine production debacle and the adverse impact it have on the scottish base company , may I ask what the rationale be behind such a partnership , as oppose to a more diffuse and cost - effective approach ? during a Westminster Hall debate in January 2022 I raise concern about the UK Government ' s overemphasis on vaccination as the sole plank of their policy , note that even with the vaccine success deliver by Dame Kate Bingham , they have place all their egg in the mrna basket . that was , and still be , short - sighted . the Valneva vaccine be the only adjuvanted , inactivated , whole - virus vaccine technology , yet the UK Government pull the contract just before the phase 3 result be publish . they demonstrate that the vaccine be highly effective and safe . that make it abundantly clear that Scotland do have the potential to lead the way for the world in the domain of innovation and vaccine strategy for pandemic preparedness , yet we be continually and systematically impede by the UK Government in that ambition . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his persistence in try to hold the Government to account on this subject . he refer to the culture , particularly in the Department of Health and Social Care , of keep thing to themselves , play card close to their chest , not have regulatory impact assessment and , in effect , as he say , impose good idea on the basis of heroic assumption that be not be test . may I encourage he to carry on his good work ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind intervention and warm word . I take they in good grace . he make an important point . assertation be make throughout the pandemic that thing be one way and , despite interrogation , any understanding that they could not possibly be that way be continually deny . that be very frustrating , and I thank he for his encouragement . in November 2021 , Dame Kate Bingham call the decision to cancel the Valneva contract " inexplicable " . do the UK Government still not get that ? why be they still not listen to the one person who come through the pandemic with their reputation enhance , because she do the job she be task to do and do it well ? the British Society for Immunology have tell I that it support the use of all vaccine technology where they have prove safe and effective in clinical trial , state that a broad portfolio of vaccine be important as we move forward in provide protection against future variant . it also note that mrna vaccine be deploy first as they be the first vaccine to be approve . however , the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency have since approve the use of eight different covid - 19 vaccine that utilise a variety of technology , include mRNA , viral vector , whole virus and protein - base platform . what be the Government ' s strategy to harness the power of all technology , consider their intend partnership with Moderna ? I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward the debate . like the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , I understand exactly what he be try to achieve . lesson need to be learn . do the hon . Gentleman agree that planning must be key to ensure that our country can continue , Government can respond , our surgeon can operate and our teacher can teach ? should , God forbid , another pandemic emerge , we need to ensure we be well prepared and ready to do well . I thank the hon . Gentleman . in essence , we can not unspill the milk . the milk be spill and there be problem . we have to make sure that that do not happen again and that we learn from the process that lead to such tragedy . we must make sure that we have not just a well approach , but the correct system in place to ensure ongoing safety . the BSI also emphasise a clear and urgent need for second and third - generation covid - 19 vaccine , include a universal vaccine , a mucosal vaccine and vaccine that induce long - last protection and immunity . furthermore , give that the " Innovation in diagnostic " part of the UKSHA science strategy specifically mention " research and development of new diagnostic technology and innovative platform " , that beg the question of how closely corporate entity , such as Moderna , will be involve in direct the process . will the Minister write to I , set out in plain detail how such a strategy will harness the expertise of the domestic diagnostic sector , through organisation such as the British in Vitro Diagnostics Association ? during the pandemic , the UK Government stand accuse of undermine the domestic diagnostic sector , drive some company under with empty promise of order , while innovative artificial intelligence technology such as the Caledonia AI blood test and the Novacyt AI saliva test be sideline . both technology can be adapt to screen for covid and other emerge threat , such as Ebola and dengue fever . upload profile information to AI would allow new , instantaneous border screening for new threat . while the 100 day mission to respond to future pandemic threat may seem ambitious , the reality be that there be around 1 . 5 million people airborne at any one time , so the case for rapid deployment of accurate diagnostic screening could not be clear . almost everyone have a smartphone , and dongle - base AI testing could be deploy internationally at the stroke of a key . follow my last Adjournment debate , I be give a commitment by the Minister in the then Department for Business , Energy and Industry Strategy to jointly host a UK industry roundtable . sadly , despite my persistence , that commitment be not keep . if we lose this intellectual capability and capacity through Government inaction , that would be a further betrayal of the domestic diagnostic sector . what be the Government do to secure and develop these technology now , and will the Minister commit to meet I to consider a way forward ? secondly , the timeline for the science strategy stipulate the creation of a vaccine development and evaluation centre by bring together the ukhsa ' s laboratory - base activity expertise and leadership in vaccine discovery , development and education . what be the need for the creation of yet another organisation , and what mechanism of funding and accountability do the Minister envisage for this body ? furthermore , how will this body ethically accommodate the corporate priority of Moderna ? I be especially concerned about sustainability . in April last year , the ukhsa itself be strip of funding as part of the living with covid strategy , put the job of 40 % of its workforce at risk . yesterday , in a media interview , Cambridge virologist Dr Chris Smith warn that there be a risk that we lose focus and deprioritise funding and planning for biological threat . he argue for nimble , well - equip public health system in preference to top - down control . for grand strategic commitment to mean anything , funding and resource must find their way to the public health frontline . can the Minister set out the plan and address how this new body will be insulate from political tumult and spin ? thirdly , I remain uneasy with the undercurrent of institutional inefficacy from the day of Public Health England through to the ukhsa and the institutional vacuum in which emergency be handle reactively by body such as the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies and Cobra . Module 1 of the current covid inquiry be a testimony to this continue trend . how do the Minister envisage the bolstering of these institution in the face of future pandemic and , crucially , how will these institution and partnership be shield from the perfidious private profiteering and vip lane that so compromise the UK Government throughout the pandemic ? finally , there be another challenge at hand , which every single Member of this House will know from their inbox . it may be uncomfortable , but deal with it we must . the pandemic have drive a spike in online disinformation and misinformation , with social medium the big source of false or misleading information about vaccine . however , we must ask , in light of the false reassurance admit to yesterday by the former Health Secretary , whether silence expert clinical voice be a solution to genuine concern about the safety of novel therapeutic technology . in my view , this challenge must be meet with evidence scientific argument and rigour , or we risk perpetuate the belief that something sinister be at hand . my professional experience of manage cancer clinical trial and drug development team be instructive : we need to take every report adverse reaction seriously . that be the bedrock of develop and deploy safe therapeutic agent . there be also an opportunity to analyse outcome on the back of the mass vaccination through a national clinical evaluation . effort must now be make to examine the vaccinated population and assess the efficacy and safety of the programme . that be quite normal . be vaccine injury possible ? of course it be . Injury be possible from exposure to any agent . the propose mode of insult with mRNA — a systemic inflammatory response — be not a new phenomenon . there be establish prophylactic protocol to manage such response , but their efficacy must be test . pretend otherwise betray the guide word of Hippocrates — " first do no harm " . system for healthcare professional and coroner to report suspect adverse drug reaction directly to MHRA already exist with the yellow card scheme , and they be very well establish and use . hold firm to principle of diligently report risk , minimise harm and ensure ethical treatment do not indulge any conspiracy theory . they be fundamental to good clinical practice . member will also have receive email from constituent on the propose role of the who international health regulation in co - ordinating future global pandemic response . as I understand it , that proposal have now be modify to be non - bind on signatory state as a result of concern over loss of local control and sovereignty . yet it be of note that yesterday , the former Health Secretary attribute to the who the misguided advice he receive . that deserve proper scrutiny . the response of Government should not be to mock , silence or ridicule member who raise those concern on behalf of constituent . the only way to address they be through proper clinical evaluation and absolute transparency . before I conclude , I want to raise some further point of challenge from the British Society for Immunology . the fact that media attention have drift from covid - 19 do not mean it be no long a significant issue . the rolling seven - day average of death sit at around 30 to 100 per day over the last three month . despite that backdrop , very few people be test for infection . limited testing mean that strain can circulate in an unrestricted manner . the more the virus circulate , the more opportunity there will be for the evolution of variant of concern . in the absence of regular widespread testing , it be even more important for waste water surveillance to be maintain at a relatively high level , to act as an early warning system for new variant of concern . accord to the BSI , Government must prioritise the development of next - generation vaccine and long - term immune monitoring to determine how long effective immunity last in the vaccinated population , scale up testing capacity to ensure that previous failure be not replicate , introduce asymptomatic testing in the NHS alongside testing of patient and ensure that NHS laboratory have plan in place for infection surge of all respiratory virus . therapeutic option be currently very limited , especially in group that respond poorly to vaccination , while access to antiviral and monoclonal antibody therapy remain patchy across the UK and there be currently no recommend treatment strategy for persistent covid - 19 . integrated care board have yet to announce what will happen when the covid medicine delivery unit be retire , and clarity be urgently need so that clinician can communicate plan properly to affect patient group . the delayed effect of covid be complex and difficult to quantify , but at present there be no long - term management plan for long covid . all those challenge must be meet . there be no argument in support of the " pick and mix " approach of the former Health Secretary . if we do not capitalise on hindsight , we be damn to repeat the mistake of the past . I thank the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) for secure this debate and raise this important issue . it be correct that the Government be hold to account on future pandemic preparedness and lesson learn from covid . I remind the hon . Gentleman that pandemic preparedness be a devolved matter and Scotland , like all part of the United Kingdom , face huge pressure . I understand that the former Scottish Health Minister have be give evidence today and have also point that out , say that " Scotland , like other country throughout the world , be deal with a virus which be unknown and new . " she also say she do not believe that " there be a plan that would have be possible that would have be able , in and of itself , to cope with covid - 19 . " that set out how all four nation of the United Kingdom be learn about covid . with hindsight , it be very easy to look back and make recommendation , and we must learn from those . I look with interest to the result of the covid inquiry to make sure that we be as prepared as possible for any future pandemic , whether of covid or any other disease . for most people , covid - 19 be now a much less serious risk than it be three year ago , and that be in no small part because of the UK ' s world - lead vaccination programme . we be the first country in the world to administer an approve vaccine and the first european nation to protect half our population with at least one dose . that success continue , with vaccine and booster still on offer to eligible group , and we take recommendation on when to roll out booster programme and who to vaccinate from the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation . antiviral provide a further layer of protection for those who be immunocompromise , enable we to effectively treat eligible people with covid - 19 . all those success have come to protect we against the virus and allow we to live with covid - 19 and regain many of the freedom that we lose during the pandemic . we have scale back our covid - 19 response because of that reduce risk , but that do not mean that the response be not there . it be scale back , but it be ready to be step up should we need it , focus on testing , diagnose , treat and protect those at great risk of severe illness . we be keep vigilant at all time . I work closely with the UK Health Security Agency , which be the organisation that lead on pandemic preparedness . we take its advice extremely seriously . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Fay Jones . ) we know that the virus have the potential to evolve with new covid - 19 variant that may evade immunity and the vaccination that we have in place . we also know that we could face new pathogen with pandemic potential , so we remain vigilant at all time not just in the United Kingdom but with our global partner . it be imperative that we retain the ability to detect and identify any new covid - 19 variant as well as wide threat . the House will be aware that the community infection survey end in March . it be commission by ukhsa as part of a suite of covid - 19 surveillance programme and deliver by the Office for National Statistics . the survey be world - lead , play a critical role in enable decision making during the pandemic . however , it be right to ensure that that surveillance programme remain proportionate , cost - effective and commensurate with how we monitor a range of other infectious disease that pose a similar risk to public health . that be why we have scale it back , but again , should we need to , we can step it up . that do not mean that we be not take any action go forward . we be maintain surveillance for covid - 19 and respiratory pathogen through a number of programme . those programme will enable the evaluation and effectiveness of vaccination against a range of clinical outcome , inform vaccine deployment and appropriate disease management . our surveillance programme be underpin by the continuation of genomic sequence to determine and assess variant severity and vaccine effectiveness . a range of vaccine be still available , which clearly we monitor on an ongoing basis . mrna vaccine be one part of our toolkit , but other be still available . that be why continued surveillance be important , but it be proportionate that it have be reduce since the peak of the pandemic . UKHSA continue to sequence covid sample each week , so should a variant of concern emerge , we would identify it relatively quickly . it publish the result of that sequence and surveillance in the national influenza and covid surveillance report . obviously , covid - 19 be a global risk , so as well as look at what be happen in the UK , we continue to support international surveillance , and we work closely in partnership with other organisation and international partner to monitor covid - 19 globally . the Government continue to fund new variant assessment platform , increase the capacity to provide genomic sequence in nine country and establish the International Pathogen Surveillance Network . that will enable we to be alive to the risk of covid - 19 elsewhere in the world . I be sure that hon . member will recognise the importance of that work and agree that it be vital to continue it to understand and respond to dangerous new variant should they emerge . if a variant of concern with potential immune evasion be detect , the Government have proportionate contingency response capability in place , a range of which be set out . those capability will support an initial response to any new and dangerous variant of concern . the Department for Health and Social Care and UKHSA continue to work together to ensure that appropriate commercial mechanism be in place to support a long response to covid - 19 , whether through testing or vaccination . I do not agree with the hon . gentleman that vaccination be the only tool in our armoury . our surveillance be our key weapon in identify a new variant of concern . we still have testing capability should we need it , and of course , our vaccination programme be nimble and can respond to any new variant should it emerge . the Minister be give an interesting response to the question about surveillance . what be the surveillance mechanism exactly ? can she take we through how the virus be be monitor in the wild ? what practical step be be take ? be waste water be assess ? how be it be identify ? what border control be expect if there be a novel threat somewhere else in the world ? how be we manage our border and ensure that the 1 . 5 million passenger in the air at any one time do not immediately bring a new threat right to our door ? there be several way , and I do try to set some of they out . as I say , ukhsa test sample from covid - positive patient around the country every week and do genomic sequence to identify new variant or variant of concern . we be not currently do international border check , but we be work with international partner , so should a new variant emerge in another country , we can step up that capability . we introduce border control on new arrival a couple of month ago due to the risk of a new variant from China , but that be step down because testing show that there be no risk to the general population . Waste water testing be also still available should it be require , so there be a range of testing capability to identify variant of concern and respond quite quickly . move on to vaccine , we be develop mrna capability , but not just in covid - 19 vaccination . that be one way of deliver covid vaccination , but that capability be also be use for respiratory illness and cancer vaccination trial . there be the potential for that technology to be use in a range of vaccine , not just for covid - 19 . a range of different vaccine be available , and should a variant of concern or change of variant emerge , we will take advice from the JCVI as to which vaccine be good to use and which group of the population be good to vaccinate . that be an ongoing piece of work . on some of the hon . Gentleman ' s other point , the covid inquiry be obviously ongoing . as the Minister responsible for pandemic preparedness , I be keen to learn the lesson about testing capability , PPE , and vulnerable group that may need great protection in future pandemic . but we also need to be live to the fact that a pathogen could emerge that be completely different from covid , flu , or avian flu , which we be also monitor actively . we need to be nimble in our response to any future pandemic . my concern be that we may just look at covid as the only future threat , but that be absolutely not our policy ; we be look at a wide range of threat , both in the UK and abroad . the Minister refer to mrna technology . be the Government absolutely convince that the technology be safe and effective ? be they in danger of put all their egg into that particular basket ? we be certainly not put all our egg in the mrna basket for covid , or for any other use of mrna technology . such vaccine must still pass the MHRA assessment in order to be license for use . as mRNA technology develop for other clinical condition , whether cancer or respiratory illness , those vaccine will also have to be award a licence by the MHRA . it be not the case that mrna vaccine be give carte blanche because they have be use in covid ; they will have to pass the necessary research hurdle to gain licence for future use . we be certainly not just rely on mRNA for covid — although it have be effective and the technology mean that it can react to variant and be alter depend on the variant . we be use other vaccine for covid , and work with other partner . I reassure my hon . friend on that . I be very happy to continue update member on the progress that we be make and any future booster vaccination programme for covid - 19 that will be run , and to update the House on the work of UKHSA regard monitoring , surveillance , and future testing capability . I thank the Minister for be a good sport and allow I to intervene again . I do make a couple of request in my contribution : I ask for some write feedback from the Minister , and whether she would be able to find time in her diary for a meeting to discuss some of the fine point . I would be very grateful if she would agree to that . I be very happy to meet up with the hon . Gentleman , and also to write to he regard the specific point on which he ask for clarification . it be important that we give the public confidence that our vaccine portfolio be very diverse , guard against both current variant and future variant . the contract that we have in place with vaccine developer be flexible , so should the need arise , we have the ability to stand up vaccination in a speedy manner . I be happy to write to the hon . Gentleman and to meet with he , because in order to bust some of those myth that he have point out exist , it be important that we be open and transparent about the arrangement that be in place , the risk that we face , and the tool that we have in our arsenal to fight any future pandemic . with that , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will draw my remark to a close . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Deferred Division Education that the Relationships and Sexuality Education ( Northern Ireland ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 ( s . I . , 2023 , no . 602 ) , date 5 June 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 6 June , be approve . Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter aldous Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker John Baron Simon Baynes Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Jake Berry Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Kevin Brennan Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Lyn Brown Nick Brown Anthony Browne Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Rob Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Alan Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Jon Cruddas Alex Cunningham James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Dehenna Davison Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Steve Double Peter Dowd Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Philip Dunne Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Mark Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Stephen Farry Simon Fell Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Ford Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Robert Halfon Luke Hall Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins George Howarth John Howell Nigel Huddleston Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Alister Jack Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Darren Jones David Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Ben Lake David Lammy John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Emma Lewell - Buck Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Stephen Morgan James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline noke Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Andrew Percy Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall Angela Rayner Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Nicola Richards Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Liz Saville - Roberts Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Royston Smith Karin Smyth Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Jon Trickett Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Hywel Williams Beth Winter Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Daniel Zeichner Scott Benton Bob Blackman Fiona Bruce Gregory Campbell Miriam Cates Philip Davies Jeffrey M . Donaldson Natalie Elphicke Nicholas Fletcher Paul Girvan James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy John Hayes Philip Hollobone Eddie Hughes Danny Kruger Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Carla Lockhart Marco Longhi Craig Mackinlay Robin Millar Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Desmond Swayne Sammy Wilson the House divide : Ayes 373 , Noes 28 . question accordingly agree to .