business before Questions Angiolini Inquiry Resolved , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of the Report , entitle the Angiolini Inquiry Part 1 Report , date 29 February 2024 . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Infected Blood Inquiry : recommendation what progress he have make on consider the recommendation of the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry . what progress he have make on consider the recommendation of the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry . what progress he have make on consider the recommendation of the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry . what progress he have make on respond to the final recommendation on compensation by the infected blood inquiry . what progress he have make on consider the recommendation of the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry . the Government recognise the urgency of the issue and be commit to progress the work as quickly as we can . for that reason , we have appoint an expert group to advise the Cabinet Office on detailed technical consideration . on Monday in the other place , the Government commit to bring forward an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill on Report , with the intention of speed up the implementation of the Government ' s response to the infected blood inquiry . my constituent Mark Ward , a haemophiliac , contract HIV after be give contaminate blood at the Royal Free Hospital . he be 14 . he be now 54 , and it be four and a half year since he give evidence at the inquiry and a year since the initial recommendation come out . it be a scandal , be it not , that the Government be force to give in by a defeat in the other place ? frankly , the Government have be complicit in people ' s live continue to be lose . how long before compensation will be pay ? what date should I give Mr Ward ? how many people ' s life will be lose while we wait for the Government to get into action ? there be 54 working day before the report be publish on Monday 20 May . the Government have commit to respond to it within 25 sitting day , but I will do everything I can to bring forward as substantive a response as possible as soon as possible after that date . my constituent Gerald Stone , a victim of the contaminated blood scandal , be 80 year old . he be in and out of hospital and be have to take morphine for the insurmountable pain he suffer . after bravely give evidence to the public inquiry and the public see that story , his lifelong neighbour begin to question whether it be safe to live on the same street as he and even go to the police . victim such as Gerald deal with the physical and mental consequence every day , but one query he have for the Minister be the figure of 30 , 000 potential claimant , which have be dispute regularly and be one reason for the hold - up in provide justice . will the Minister provide clarity on that figure ? I be try to ensure a comprehensive response as soon as possible . that be why we have appoint Professor Sir Jonathan Montgomery to head up a team to advise on how to implement the recommendation of the report . I be do that as quickly as I can . there be issue around eligibility , the severity of disease and its progression , and so on , which I need to be sure on so that I can address the challenge that exist . with respect to the 30 , 000 figure , I can not give a number from the Dispatch Box , but I will ensure that the Government response , when it come , will be as comprehensive as possible , to give some assurance to the hon . Lady ' s constituent . ITV be now set to produce a drama about the contaminated blood scandal , follow the success of " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " . as we know , thousand of people have be affect by the scandal , include my constituent , Catherine , who lose her husband in 2005 , and Margaret , who lose her husband Bill in 2021 . Bill be a local councillor . I know he very well . he be an absolutely lovely man . he be also a trustee of the Haemophilia Society . some people , include Bill , have be fight this battle for 40 year . why have it take we this long to get to this point ? will it really take a tv drama to make the Government finally act ? I be aware of the comment about a tv drama , but I be concerned to ensure that we build on the decision of this place on 4 December with respect to the Victims and Prisoners Bill . that Bill be work its way through the other place . Committee will finish on 12 March , so Report stage can not happen before 15 April . listen to the testimony of the hon . Lady and of those in the other place , whose nephew and husband die as a result of contaminate blood , have make I more determined to ensure that the Government ' s response be as comprehensive as possible and that it meet the expectation of everyone in this place and of the country at large . I think the Minister be a good man and be try to do his good , but this be the big treatment scandal in the history of the NHS . we have have six year of a public inquiry . the Government have now have the recommendation on compensation for 12 month . I understand that the Minister have not yet meet anyone infect or affect , or take any sounding from any of the campaign group . now , we hear in a write question this week that his expert group be not allow to know the name of those people or to have the minute of those meeting or of any of the working that be take place . do he understand that , after decade of cover - up and criminal activity , the lack of transparency with which the infected and affected be be treat be totally unacceptable ? I explain to the right hon . Lady when I meet she on 6 February , and again when I speak to she on 8 February , the context of Professor Sir Jonathan Montgomery ' s appointment . as she know , Sir Brian recommend that eligibility for compensation include those with hepatitis C , HIV and all chronic case of hepatitis B . on the right hon . Lady ' s question about engagement with the group , I be very keen to engage when the Report stage happen in the middle of April . I will then work on plan to engage with as many group as possible across the United Kingdom , build on my conversation with representative of the devolved administration on 6 February . since the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry be announce , another 82 victim of the scandal have sadly die . I note what the Minister say about the appointment of Sir Jonathan Montgomery as chair of the expert offer technical advice on the compensation talk , but may I express the anger of one of my constituent , who be a victim of the scandal , about that appointment ? he have ask I to ask : what confidence can victim have in the compensation process when an individual who be link to pharmaceutical firm Bayer — a company that supply infected blood — and chair the Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , which be at the epicentre of the scandal , be advise the Cabinet Office ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the appointment of Sir Jonathan Montgomery be compliant with all the process , similar to those use for the appointment of Sir Robert Francis and other . I recognise the concern express around Jonathan ' s involvement with Bayer . that cease at the end of October last year . he be part of an independent advisory group — not make executive decision — for the pharmaceutical company . in the other place , the noble Baroness Brinton describe Sir Jonathan as a " well - respect ethicist " . he have be ask not for further recommendation , but to advise the Government on the implementation of the recommendation make in the report . I hope that be helpful . like other member , I have constituent and friend who have be profoundly affect by the scandal , through both hepatitis and HIV . I recognise that my right hon . friend be work extremely hard to come up with a solution to move the conversation forward , but can he update the House on any conversation he have have with the Treasury on deliver compensation as swiftly as possible once it be available ? conversation about this be take place all the time across Whitehall . that will continue at pace as we move towards the 20 May publication . my determination be to bring forward as substantive a response as possible on the compensation issue as soon as possible after that . obviously , those conversation happen over time , but I undertake to update the House at the next opportunity when there be something substantive to say . I call the shadow Minister . in his second interim report , of 5 April 2023 , Sir Brian Langstaff set out : " I recommend that a compensation scheme should be set up now and it should begin work this year . " now we be into the next year , 2024 , and the scheme have not be set up . we have no timetable from the Government on when work will begin . the Minister do not need to wait until 20 May for the final report . can the Minister tell the victim ' group , who have wait for so long , whether he have persuade the Chancellor to include the funding for the scheme in next week ' s Budget , and when will the first substantive payment be make ? I think the right hon . Gentleman will understand that I can not pre - announce aspect of the Budget , but his general point about urgency be one that I hear , as I say to he when I meet he before the February recess . as I also explain , Report stage in this place on 4 December leave we with legislation that be not fit for purpose , which be why further change need to be make . those change be be make as urgently as possible . on Monday of this week , the Government commit that on Report in the other place , we will bring forward the appropriate amendment to enable that arm ' s length body to be create with the legal function and UK - wide remit that be necessary . I have be work closely with Earl Howe , meet with he as the Bill have go through the other place . however , I can not announce aspect of the Budget in any form — I hope the right hon . Gentleman will forgive I . veteran ID Cards what recent progress he have make on the roll - out of veteran ID card . to date , we have receive over 70 , 000 application . we be committed to ensure that as many veteran as possible know how to apply for a card : we have launch a national promotional campaign to raise awareness of the card ' s availability , and over the next few month , we will continue to work with the charity sector and other to ensure as many people as possible know about the card and its benefit . veteran in my constituency of Ynys M ô n , such as the brilliant Mark Davis who serve our country for many year , be now eligible for a veteran card . can my right hon . friend confirm how veteran such as Mark Davis be be tell about that card and how to get one ? Diolch yn fawr . a significant program of work be go on at the moment to make sure everyone be aware of the card . this have be the no . 1 ask of the major six military charity in this country for some time , and I encourage everybody who be eligible — who have serve and be a veteran — to apply for their veteran ID card , which open up a whole gamut of service . we have completely transform what it mean to be a veteran in this country . those service be available : you can get help with so many issue . please do apply for your card , and slowly , we will make this the good country in the world to be a veteran . as always , I thank the Minister for his very positive response . he will know , of course , that people in Northern Ireland be join up to serve — whether it be in the Army , the Royal Navy or the Royal Air Force — as they have do over the year . beyond the Battlefield , which I hope the Minister will visit shortly , be one of the organisation that help veteran . do the Minister hold any statistic on how many service personnel from Northern Ireland have apply for veteran ID card ? I do not have those figure to hand , but Northern Ireland traditionally have a high representation of service personnel . I be in Northern Ireland two week ago , and I be impressed with some of the service , but to be honest , Northern Ireland be not where I want it to be in term of veteran ’ affair . we be look at all option for how the Office for Veterans ' Affairs can really lean in — while mindful of the fact that health , housing and many other thing be devolve — and make sure that the standard that we now see in England for veteran ' care be replicate across the United Kingdom in Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs and the Ministry of Defence on its achievement with the roll - out so far , although it be probably fair to acknowledge that there be still some way to go . be it not quite surprising that the veteran ID card can not be use for the purpose of ID in a UK election ? when do the Minister hope to put that right ? the ID card be the first phase in a multi - phase operation to ensure that that objective can be achieve , alongside a whole load of other objective . the challenge be digitise 13 million veteran ' record to ensure that we have an accurate picture of veteran . get the ID card out be the first phase , but of course , the ambition be to ensure that the card be use for all sort of purpose , include the one that the hon . Gentleman have mention . sme : Public Sector Procurement what step his Department be take to improve access to public sector procurement process for small and medium - sized business . what step his Department be take to improve access to public sector procurement process for small and medium - sized business . the landmark Procurement Act 2023 , which this Government pass last year , will deliver simple and more effective public sector procurement and help small and medium - sized enterprise across the country secure a great share of that expenditure , which total approximately £ 300 billion every year . the Act include a new duty on contracting authority to have regard for the particular barrier face by sme and consider what can be do to overcome they . small business be the lifeblood of our economy . there be 5 . 5 million of they in the UK , make up over 99 % of all business and 61 % of private sector employment . however , currently only a fraction of 1 % offer their good and service to the public sector . could the Minister say a little more about the work that be be do to encourage more of they to enter tender process ? I would be delighted to , because the Government be entirely committed to ensure that sme get a big share of that pie . the late publish SME spend figure show that UK small business receive £ 21 billion of work , which be an increase of £ 1 . 7 billion on the previous year ' s figure . that be the high since record begin , and the fifth consecutive year that government work win by small business have increase . crucially , that be before the effect of the Procurement Act kick in . as my hon . friend have say in his reply , the Procurement Act be I hope the solution to many of these problem , but it be not due to come into force until the beginning of October . can he confirm that it will definitely come into force then , and that the necessary secondary legislation be in hand ? I be pleased to be able to report that , despite the fact that this be complex legislation that require workstream in a number of area — not just secondary legislation , but learning and development for those work for contracting authority , and a new online platform that will make procurement much easy and well for both those supply service and those procure they — we be on track to meet our target . Border Target Operating Model what recent assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the border target operating model on cross - border flow of good . the Government be deliver a programme of engagement with stakeholder across all sector in all part of the country , and with key European Union trading partner , to ensure that good continue to move across the border . we have not identify any specific risk to the cross - border flow of good . the Minister may not have identify risk , but business be certainly very worried about potential delay and cost . alongside the " not for EU " labelling issue , the Food and Drink Federation estimate that there will be an extra £ 250 million a year in cost . so I challenge he : be he really say there will be no extra cost for our hard - press constituent as a result of all this extra bureaucracy ? we be not say that , no , but I would say to the hon . member that appropriate import control be fundamental to ensure that we can protect the UK ' s food supply chain , our food and farming industry , and our natural environment from biosecurity risk . the border target operating model will have very little impact on most of our fruit and vegetable import , which have be classify as low risk . as he press I , I would say to he that inflationary impact on food for consumer will be at most less than 0 . 2 percentage point over a three - year period , and we have publish the methodology online . of course , no one should ever be cavalier about the cost of food , but I be sure he would agree with I that 0 . 2 percentage point over three year be a small figure . I call the shadow Minister . I be absolutely astonished — I really be astonish — at the complacency about the impact on UK food bill , because the Government ' s own projection say that this border scheme will cost UK business some £ 330 million per year , while the British Chambers of Commerce have highlight charge for EU good come into the UK . what assessment have the Minister make of the full inflationary impact of these measure on UK food bill , and with further check due to start in April , what preparation be in hand to prevent a repeat of the chaotic scene at our port that we have see before on this Government ' s watch ? alas that there be disease outbreak in the European Union and alas that food be circulate that do not comply with EU standard . I hope to protect the people of Wycombe and the whole United Kingdom from unsafe pork and chicken , and to ensure that we do not end up vulnerable to thing such as the horsemeat scandal . as I understand it , the Labour party wish to revert to the regime we have when we be an EU member state by align with the EU on sanitary and phytosanitary matter . I remember very well the horsemeat scandal that arise , and I do not want to see anything like that occur again . I would just point out that an outbreak of african swine fever would be a fundamental threat to the viability of our pig industry . foot and mouth cost british business £ 12 . 8 billion , at 2022 price , in 2001 . the cost of ash dieback be forecast to be £ 15 billion to the UK . I think we need to take seriously the need to protect our border and the need to check these medium to high - risk product , and that be what this Government will responsibly do . I call the SNP spokesperson . have the Government make any assessment of the additional cost to sme of these change — the red tape they have have and will have to wrangle with — and how many business will go under as a result ? we be not expect business to go under as a result of this , but I refer the hon . Lady to the answer I just give : it be vital that we protect our border . the reality be that there be risk to public health from food and we need to make sure that we be not cavalier about these check . it be vital that we protect our border and protect the public , and that be what we be go to do . we be continue to engage with business , we expect there to be very few problem , and we will work our way through . there be no question of be cavalier : we have be work very carefully to consult stakeholder and make sure there have not be great problem . indicate dissent . the hon . Lady shake her head , but I just point out that the 31 January deadline for export health certificate pass by and there be not the problem that be forecast . Veteran card : Devon and Cornwall how many application have be make for hm armed force veteran card by military veteran live in Devon and Cornwall . the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs and the Ministry of Defence launch a new service in January to allow veteran to apply for their card . since then , 1 , 259 veteran have apply from Cornwall and 2 , 793 from Devon . I thank the Minister , my fellow Devon MP , for his answer . it be very encouraging to have have positive feedback from veteran in Torbay about the simplicity of apply online , but one question come to mind : what work be be do with local authority that encounter veteran through service such as housing to encourage they to apply online or make an application if they have not do so ? that be a good question and I can not emphasise this point enough . obviously , this be my responsibility as the veteran Minister , but it be also the nation ' s duty to look after these people . we need local authority to understand what be available to look after these people . we have armed force champion in local authority now and I want to see that role take seriously . there be multiple pathway specifically for veteran through health , housing , employment and a number of other topic , but clearly it be incumbent on all of we in public life to understand what be available for veteran so that when we find one in need , they get the world - class help they deserve . Covid - 19 : procurement Fraud what recent estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of procurement fraud during the covid - 19 pandemic . what recent estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of procurement fraud during the covid - 19 pandemic . the Government ' s " Cross - Government Fraud Landscape Annual Report 2022 " include datum from the first year of the Government ' s response to the pandemic . the report suggest that in 2020 - 21 , Government Departments and arm ' s length body report a total of £ 124 . 6 million of detect procurement fraud . the same report show that at the end of March 2021 , some £ 88 . 2 million of fraud and error have be recover within covid - 19 scheme . since then , crucially , further fund have be recover and the Government will continue to update the House as fresh data become available . when people think back to the sacrifice they make during the pandemic , the greed associate with the personal protective equipment scandal really jar with they , so will the Minister commit to follow the Labour party ' s lead and appoint a covid corruption commissioner to chase down and claw back every penny of taxpayer ' money that be waste ? this government take PPE fraud extremely seriously . to remind the House of the figure , 1 . 8 % of expenditure on PPE be lose to fraud at a time when there be the most extraordinary public crisis in several generation and we be compete in an extremely overheated international market . to date , we have recover more than a quarter of that 1 . 8 % and the fight to recover more continue . PPE procurement be subject to ongoing contract management control , active dispute resolution and recovery action . the law be on our side and we be use it . the covid procurement scandal upset many people , and rightly so . I speak with a fantastic local business in Tamworth , Wearwell ( UK ) , which be manufacture PPE as part of the regional procurement but be cut out of the process during the pandemic . the UK must be prepare in the event of another pandemic , and british manufacturing offer a great response time and a more stable supply chain . when will we return to regional procurement to ensure that local business be prioritise when provide PPE for the nation ? I welcome the hon . Lady to what I think be her first Cabinet Office question . she be right to draw attention to the fantastic textile manufacturing that exist in the region in which her constituency sit . she will have hear I talk about the Procurement Act 2023 , which be pass last year and will make sure that small and medium - sized enterprise , which by their nature be often local enterprise , will have a big share of public procurement . I call the shadow Minister . we have not just have the infamous Baroness Mone scandal ; at the time , there be report of a hedge fund in Mauritius that get a £ 250 million contract for face mask that could not be use and a jeweller in Florida that get a multimillion - pound contract for gown that could not be use . the Government have to incinerate billion of pound - worth of faulty personal protective equipment . that be taxpayer ' money literally go up in smoke . in the pandemic the then Health Secretary , the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , tell I at the Dispatch Box " where a contract be not deliver against , we do not intend to pay taxpayer ' money " . — [ Official Report , 23 February 2021 ; Vol . 689 , c . 758 . ] but taxpayer ' money be spend , wasn ' t it ? why be that promise not meet ? I gently refer the right hon . Gentleman to the answer I just give . the fact be that , although problem arise with PPE procurement in this uniquely difficult environment in which official be work unbelievably hard for the public good , PPE procurement be still subject to ongoing contract management control , active dispute resolution and recovery action . the fact of the matter be that this Government take it seriously during the pandemic . the Department of Health and Social Care realise the risk of fraud early on , and the Government establish a counter - fraud team to counter that threat . we be use all the legal tool at our disposal to get taxpayer ' money back . the House should be in no doubt that the Government ' s speed of action during the crisis enable many life to be save and for the country to overcome the covid - 19 crisis . veteran : cost of live what step he be take to support veteran with the cost of living . what step he be take to support veteran with the cost of living . the Government have successfully reduce inflation by more than half , which will make the cost of live more affordable for veteran along with every other resident in the United Kingdom . we be also get support directly to those who need it with the £ 104 billion cost of live package , worth an average of £ 3 , 700 a household . in addition , the Government be provide £ 33 million over three year to well support veteran . my constituent in Gower , and especially my veteran , want to know whether the Minister for Veterans ' affair stand by his comment that food bank usage be a personal choice . it be important in this place that we do not misrepresent what other member say . I very clearly say that service personnel who receive subsidised accommodation should not be use food bank . there be no requirement for they to do it , and that be not appropriate . that be what I have say . I have obviously never say that food bank be a personal choice . this be a real opportunity to come here and ask I any question at all about veteran ’ affair . I suggest we try to raise the debate and actually improve their life . with ten of thousand of veteran across the UK force to rely on universal credit to get by , what be the Minister do to help veteran in Swansea East and right across the country who be in receipt of universal credit to cope with the increase cost of living cause by this Government ' s economic failing ? I spend my entire life visit veteran who consistently raise with I the help that they get . there be plenty of place for they to go to , whether it be the Royal British Legion or other , that have specific grant . on top of that , the Government have put in an enormous package of help for citizen across the United Kingdom of £ 104 billion . that be £ 3 , 700 a household , and that be just for the cost of living . it be an incredibly difficult time for lot of people across the United Kingdom , but I be comfortable that the Government be do all we can , and we stand ready to do more . House of Lords Appointments : diversity what assessment his Department have make of trend in the diversity of appointment to the House of Lords . since 2010 , female representation have rise to 29 . 1 % and ethnic minority representation have rise by November 2021 — those be the late verify figure I have — to 6 . 6 % . that be good progress , but can the Minister explain why her right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) — Liz of the 50 - day reign — be allow to award her mate for their part in her failure with job for life in the legislature ? be she proud of that ? it be a long - stand tradition that anybody who reach the height of Prime Minister — irrespective of which party that be for — have a resignation list . the former Prime Minister have appoint accomplished people , and I be quite sure that they will contribute significantly to the other House . resignation Honours list : Public Trust whether he have have recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the publication of the resignation honour list of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk on public trust in ( a ) politician and ( b ) political institution . it be a long - stand convention under successive government that outgoing Prime Ministers can draw up a resignation list . that have be the case under past government from across the political spectrum , and any name propose be subject to the usual propriety check . political polarisation be more prevalent than ever , but polling consistently show that voter across the political spectrum be unite in their opposition to an unelected House of Lords . the trouble the public face be that this place and this government do not want to know — they merrily carry on stuff the House of Lords full of loyal stooge . when will the Government finally take their finger out of their ear , listen to the public and begin to consider long - require reform of the place through those door ? many people in the other House be probably somewhat insult by the hon . member ' s word . many of they be highly accomplish in a variety of specialism and bring much insight as they scrutinise the legislation that come from this House . Gov . uk : Effectiveness if he will undertake a review of the effectiveness of gov . uk for the public and business . Gov . uk be among the UK ' s most recognise and trust digital service . it be constantly monitor to assure and improve the service it provide to its user through data analytic , user research and feedback , while the late gov . uk strategy prioritise proactively reach more people in more place . government process need to work if our democratic system be to have the trust of our constituent . we know that many people who use Government IT system to manage their tax payment , national insurance credit or benefit experience error in how their account of money be handle , which be unacceptable . will the Minister accept that a cross - departmental review of how those IT system work need to be carry out so that constituent can trust that the Government be not lose their hard - earn money ? I be pleased to tell the hon . Lady that polling at the end of last year find that 76 % of respondent be satisfied with gov . uk , 78 % agree that they could typically find what they want and 74 % trust the information they find . obviously , we keep all our system under review , but gov . uk be a trusted brand and it be get well every day . Ministerial Code : compliance what recent discussion he have have with the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest on trend in the level of compliance with the ministerial code . the Prime Minister have be clear that he will lead a Government of " integrity , professionalism and accountability at every level . " he be deliver on that promise . I meet Sir Laurie Magnus , the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest , in November . a survey publish just this week by the Institute for Government reveal that two third of the public do not believe that the Government behave accord to high ethical standard . I do not think anyone in the House will be surprise by that , give the behaviour we have see from some — particularly former — Ministers over the past five year . even in the last few week , question have be raise about potential breach of the ministerial code by the Business Secretary , and we have see failure reward constantly with outrageous severance payment . will the Minister finally fully enshrine the ministerial code into law ? that matter have be discuss . the Committee on Standards in Public Life do not recommend that in 2021 , because it would afford significant authority to a body that be outwith accountability to the House . veteran : Northern Ireland what step he be take to improve support for veteran who serve in Northern Ireland . we have expand the Veterans Welfare Service provision in Northern Ireland and allocate £ 500 , 000 to a defence medical welfare service pilot to support veteran ' health and wellbee in Northern Ireland . on legacy , we be commit to work with the Northern Ireland Office , the Ministry of Defence and the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery to ensure that veteran be fully engage and support . what support can veteran expect from the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery ? we be do everything we can to support veteran who be go through that process . it be essential that veteran be engage as the commission develop its policy and process . we be work closely with the Ministry of Defence to ensure that legal and welfare provision be establish , to ensure that veteran be support through that process . topical Questions we now come to topical question . I call Barry Sheerman — not here . if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . later today , I will set out how we be put more artificial intelligence expert at the heart of Government to drive the adoption of AI right across the public sector . we will not only revolutionise service but increase productivity , cut inefficiency and save taxpayer million of pound . early this month , I launch the Pall Mall Process alongside international ally , which will combat the proliferation of the irresponsible use of cyber - intrusion tool that be commercially available . I be determined that the Cabinet Office will lead the way in seize the opportunity present by these new technology , while guard against the risk . I thank my right hon . friend for his update . every day this place be combat cyber - security challenge . what action be he take to ensure that not only this place but the whole of the United Kingdom be safe from Iran , Russia and other hostile element that want to intrude on our security ? my hon . friend be entirely right to raise that risk . we live in a more dangerous and hostile world . I be particularly mindful of the risk pose by hostile foreign state such as Iran . we rely heavily on the National Cyber Security Centre , with which we work closely to ensure the security of Government , this House and the private sector . in addition , I chair a ministerial cyber board , where we constantly challenge department to improve their cyber - security — which we be improve , but the risk continue to arise . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as the Minister have see , many question have be ask today on the infected blood scandal . will he confirm that it be no part of the Government ' s decision - make process on the timescale of grant compensation payment to create the fiscal headroom need for the much anticipated pre - election tax cut in next week ' s Budget ? I can confirm that be not the case . Baroness Mone and her husband make a £ 60 million profit on a £ 200 million contract for personal protective equipment , much of which the NHS deem unusable . the couple , reportedly , have have £ 75 million of asset freeze , but they also have a horse run in Britain ' s favourite horserace , the grand national . that be not race ' s fault , but would it not be a grand national disgrace if the owner be able to walk away with winning while taxpayer be still wait to get their money back from be sell a mountain of unusable PPE ? the Government continue to take robust action to recover any misuse fund . as the right hon . Gentleman will be aware , both criminal and civil proceeding be ongoing , so there be limited thing I can say in respect of the allegation that he have make . as the Secretary of State in the Cabinet Office and Deputy Prime Minister , my remit run to many area , but unfortunately not to the outcome of the grand national . if it do , we could all win . dedicated people such as Kath Eastment of SSAFA , Piers Beeland from the Royal British Legion and the RAF Valley Padre Mike Hall work tirelessly to support veteran across Ynys M ô n . I be delighted that a veteran hub be to open at RAF Valley on Friday 22 March , which will give local veteran a place to meet and access support . will my right hon . friend extend his congratulation to the team responsible , and will he come to RAF Valley to visit the hub ? I would love to come to RAF Valley at some point . I visit my hon . friend ' s constituency before she be a member ; it be a beautiful part of the United Kingdom . I pay tribute to everybody who work in this sector and who step into the breach and work hard to ensure that those come out of service with particular need be support , and that we look after they in the manner that I want to see . I call the SNP spokesperson . in response to the question from the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , the Minister stress the importance of Ministers be accountable to this House , particularly for breach of the ministerial code , but neither the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest nor the Prime Minister be truly accountable to the House when it come to the ministerial code — and the Foreign Secretary be not accountable to this House at all . Trust be at an all - time low , and breach of the ministerial code be rife . when will the Government revise the code to include appropriate sanction , so that Ministers can no long break the code with impunity ? the Government continue to keep the ministerial code under review . the Prime Minister of the day have to be able to determine who the Ministers will be in the government that he lead on behalf of his Majesty . that be an important constitutional principle , but the Prime Minister will not hesitate to take action if there have be inappropriate breach . on the accountability of the Foreign Secretary , discussion continue on the good way to ensure that this House hold he to account , in the same way that he be already accountable to , for example , Select Committees . in July 2019 , the Minister ' s Department issue new guidance effectively outlaw gag clause across Government Departments . do the Department have any plan to extend that to local authority ? I be sure that the Minister would , like I , be appal that labour - run Rossendale Borough Council have issue a gagging clause against its elect representative , back up by a threat of legal proceeding , because it want to cover up a £ 12 million fraud , in which labour councillor may have be complicit , and about which they certainly have question to answer . my right hon . friend rightly raise some very concern allegation . so - call gag order should not be use in that way , and I undertake to look into the matter on his behalf . I have raise the subject of the pressure face prison officer on a number of occasion . prison officer be part of the civil service pension scheme and must work until the age of 68 to retire on a full pension . do the Minister recognise that that be unrealistic , give the number of assault on they and the pressure they face ? will he work with I and the Prison Officers Association to seek an exception for prison officer , so that they can retire at 60 after 30 year ' service , as be currently the case for firefighter and the police ? the hon . Gentleman rightly raise the matter of the enormous contribution of prison officer . they be often under - sing member of our public service , risk their life day in , day out , to protect we all from dangerous and violent criminal . of course , as Ministers , we have a duty to protect the public purse . we have set out a clear principle on the age of retirement from government role . we would be reluctant to start vary that for a further group of people , because it be very difficult to draw the line once we start unpick that principle . it have be report in the Daily Telegraph that the Starmerite think - tank Labour together have have to pay a fine of just over £ 14 , 000 for fail to declare hundred of thousand of donation . the rationale it give be that it do not want to name some of its donor . do my right hon . friend think that simply not want to do something be a reasonable basis on which to break the law ? the short answer be clearly no . indeed , it really worry I that thing have come to a state where the Labour party allegedly do not want to declare donation because of concern about grow antisemitism . that be a very worrying allegation . the independent review into the Teesworks project find there to be a lack of " transparency and oversight across the system to evidence value for money , " as well as " a persistent theme or culture of excessive confidentiality " . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities do not seem to be interested in pursue those matter , and refuse to refer they to the National Audit Office . can the Minister explain what his Department be do to make sure that public money be spend properly ? the Government remain committed to ensure value for the taxpayer across all project . as the hon . Gentleman highlight , this be principally a matter for DLUHC . what be the late position on a review of the impact of the statute of limitation on the ability of people injure by covid - 19 vaccine to bring civil claim ? More than 3 , 000 claim have not yet be deal with by the Government ' s compensation scheme , and people ' s ability to begin civil litigation will be prejudice unless something be do quickly . my hon . friend be a champion and a campaigner on behalf of all those people who have suffer covid vaccine damage . we have meet , and I have take the issue to the permanent secretary to see what we can do , whether it would involve extend the timeframe that he be talk about or not start the clock tick until a decision have be make . give that Ministers be pilot the use of artificial intelligence in Departments to answer parliamentary question , which Ministers will the Secretary of State wish to replace first ? until this moment I have not think of draw up a list , but as the hon . Lady will have hear we say on a number of occasion , artificial intelligence provide a remarkable opportunity to create supplementary capacity and capability for the civil service and the Government . I have be very pleased to pilot a new programme call " red box " , devise by a fantastic young crack AI team , which summarise long document and make the work of my private office easier . however , it be enhance capability , not replace it . the Minister talk early about protect our border . I be sure he will know that Dover Port Health Authority have seize worrying amount of contaminated meat over the last few month , but in just the last few day , we have learn that the Government be withdraw the fund that make it possible for the authority to do that . why be the Government ignore the advice of experienced public health official ? there be absolutely no question of ignore the advice of expert . indeed , only yesterday I have relevant meeting to discuss adjacent matter . as I say in an early answer , meat be circulate — particularly pork and chicken — that be not fit under either EU or UK rule , and we will continue to take step to ensure that our border be protect . Sir Brian Langstaff recommend in April 2023 that before the publication of his final report , interim payment should be make to parent who have lose child , and to child who have lose parent . why be this Minister such a " computer say no " man ? I respectfully reject that characterisation . as the hon . Gentleman know , the Government have spend £ 400 million of taxpayer ' money since October 2022 . the arrangement for the distribution of further compensation payment be obviously be consider at this point , and , as I say during the extensive exchange that open this question session , that work be continue apace , so that I can produce a comprehensive response from the Government as soon as possible . how do the Secretary of State expect the civil service to function effectively for the public if the Government go ahead with headcount cut of up to 70 , 000 , which aim to return civil service number to pre - pandemic and pre - Brexit level , and which will mean a huge loss of expertise and knowledge ? what discussion have he have with trade union about these proposal ? I meet several union leader a few week ago . on 2 October , the Chancellor announce that the civil service would be cap at the level that be current at that time , which would save up to £ 1 billion against the trajectory that be then in place . as of September 2023 , there be 496 , 150 civil servant . it be an important Government responsibility to ensure that we have the right number of civil servant perform effectively and efficiently in public service , and we will continue to work on that . [ Official Report , 11 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 2mc . ] ( Correction ) what discussion have the Minister have with charity back home in Northern Ireland , such as Beyond the Battlefield and SSAFA , about improve mental health support for veteran who serve in Northern Ireland during the trouble ? I have extend this invitation in the past , and I extend it again now : will the Minister join I in visit Portavogie to see the wonderful work of beyond the Battlefield , which be conduct a project there ? we really want to see he there . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind invitation . I would love to come , and I be in Northern Ireland a couple of week ago . health be clearly devolve , but I make it very clear that I want the same standard in Northern Ireland that we have achieve with Op Courage in England : a single , dedicated mental healthcare pathway for veteran , with 19 , 000 referral in its first year . where be all these people go before that ? it be an incredible story . I want to see that standard achieve in Northern Ireland , and we will keep work at it until we do . may I ask my hon . friend what work be be do to ensure that the Government give value for money for the taxpayer when it come to the Government estate ? I be pleased to say that one of our major Government function , the Government Property Agency , be constantly look at how we can refresh the Government estate to make sure not just that our office be fit for purpose and be wonderful working space for our excellent civil servant , but that we be not hang on to outdated building that be expensive to run . we be very mindful of achieve value for money in this area . interim payment be , by their very nature , interim ; they be pay before final payment . perhaps the Minister might be able to help I to understand . he just say that work be go on at pace , so when will the interim payment , recommend by Sir Brian Langstaff in April 2023 , to parent who lose child and child who lose parent be pay before the final payment be make ? as soon as possible , and when the Government ' s position be clear . on the efficiency of Government Departments , I be sure that minister want report by inspectorate that be the responsibility of their Department to be produce in a timely manner . be the Minister aware that the now sack chief inspector of border and immigration have produce 15 report , which have be sit on the Home Secretary ' s desk , in some case for over a year ? there be complete confusion about how they can be publish in the absence of the inspector and his deputy . will the Minister look into that , and give reassurance to the House that these report will be publish in a timely fashion ? my hon . friend raise a very important matter . I will look into it urgently and come back to he as soon as possible . the experience of the last two year have teach we that energy security be now national security . the more we can generate our own renewable , the less reliant on tyrant we will be . have the Secretary of State ask the National Security Council to report on the national and energy security implication of the Prime Minister ' s decision last year to scale back his Government ' s energy transition target ? if he have not , why not ? we continue to monitor energy security , principally through the National Security Council resilience committee , which I chair . I say gently to the hon . Lady that if she be concerned about energy security , why do her party consistently vote against grant new licence for North sea oil and gas , which would enhance our energy security ? why do this Government think it be right that Church of England bishop in the House of Lords can have great say on legislation affect Scotland than the Scottish Parliament , and when will there ever be meaningful reform to the bloated House of Lords ? as the hon . Gentleman will have hear I say in a Westminster Hall debate not so long ago , it remain a great pity that the SNP refuse to play in the House of Lords . the fact be that the people of Scotland reject the idea of an independent Scotland some time ago , and it would have be to the benefit of his constituent and other around Scotland if his party have have the good sense to ask for people to be put in the upper House . on the contaminated blood scandal , why have the Government not name the expert ? we have give detail of the appointment of Sir Jonathan Montgomery , and a number of other individual be work on clinical and other matter . it be really important that we get on with this work , and we will report back on their conclusion as soon as we can . we know that the Cabinet Office be often focus on make sure that procurement contract go to small and medium - sized enterprise , but can my hon . friend tell I what work be be do to make sure that female - lead business get a chance at those contract ? I think my right hon . friend be refer to social value , which be obviously an important part of our procurement regime . social value be discuss extensively during the passage of the Procurement Act 2023 , and contracting authority in local area must pay regard to it . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 4 March will include : Monday 4 March — general debate on farming . Tuesday 5 March — Second reading of Automotive Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] , follow by motion relate to the share Parental Leave and Pay ( Bereavement ) Bill , the british Citizenship ( Northern Ireland ) Bill and the High Streets ( Designation , Review and Improvement Plan ) Bill . Wednesday 6 March — my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will deliver his Budget statement . Thursday 7 March — Continuation of the Budget debate . Friday 8 March — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 11 March include : Monday 11 March — Continuation of the Budget debate . Tuesday 12 March — Conclusion of the Budget debate . colleague should also be aware that Thursday 14 March will be estimate day . at 5 pm on that day the House will be ask to agree all outstanding estimate . I start by pay tribute to Ronnie Campbell and Sir Patrick Cormack . Ronnie be a large than life character , proudly and staunchly represent his community and his root . although Sir Patrick be an MP before my time , I have read the glow tribute which all describe he as incredibly kind . I be also incredibly sadden by the news , just announce , that Dave Myers , one of the Hairy Bikers , have die . he be a hugely popular and much love figure . I be go to welcome the motion on the risk - base exclusion of Members that we be due to debate on Monday , as the Leader of the House announce last week , but it appear that she have pull it . this decision will be meet with dismay by member , staff and union who have work on it for more than a year . can she let we know when the motion will return ? I note that some on the Conservative Benches have table amendment , which report suggest be why the motion have be withdraw . will she confirm that she still support the motion as agree by the House of Commons Commission on which we both sit ? I welcome the new funding and protocol that have be announce to enhance mps ' security and defend our democracy . we have see a huge rise in antisemitism , Islamophobia , hate and the intimidation of elect representative , especially since Hamas ' s barbaric attack on Israel on 7 October . I put on record my thank to you , Mr Speaker , and the security service for your leadership . I ask last week , as I have before , for a new cross - party taskforce to address these issue . can the Leader of the House help to make sure that happen ? we have discuss these issue many time , but do the Leader of the House not agree that it be incumbent on all of we to be mindful of our language and conduct ? when we see racism , antisemitism or Islamophobia in our own rank , we must take action , however difficult the consequence , and we must be clear in call it out . to that end , I hope she will take this opportunity to say what be very clear for all to see , that the comment of the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) about the Mayor of London be racist and Islamophobic . do the Leader of the House agree that we need to uphold the high standard of conduct towards one another , and that highly personalised and wrong - head attack by section of the medium , or by political party , towards individual member only fuel hatred , disdain and those who pose security threat ? we must strive to do well . in an age of social medium , the spread of misinformation , disinformation and deep fake will shape the general election in way that we can not imagine , so will the Leader of the House update we on regulation and action to tackle it ? the Government water down the Online Safety Act 2023 and take all of this out of scope , just when we need it most . finally , ahead of next week ' s Budget , I want to turn to the economy . last week , it become official : we be in recession . Most people do not need the Office for National Statistics to tell they that , because they have be struggle with its reality for a long time . sit beneath the headline figure be a record the Government do not want to admit : we have see the big fall in living standard since record begin — let we just let that sink in for a moment . to emphasise that , GDP per capita have fall for seven quarter in a row — that mean family up and down the country have much less money to spend , the pound in their pocket worth less . this total crisis of living standard have the Prime Minister ' s name write all over it . he be the Chancellor , and now as Prime Minister he have fail . he have fail to meet his own pledge to grow the economy , and he have fail each and every one of we . to make matter bad , the Government seem unable to show any understanding or humility . they repeat that their plan be work and that they have turn a corner , but we have not . alternatively , they blame other for their failure . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury seem not to understand the number at all . one conservative Member blame the weather and another blame disabled people . when ask about our fail economy at yesterday ' s Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister blame Labour ' s policy . it be the Conservatives ' 14 year of decision that have lead we here and leave Britain uniquely expose , with austerity ; political and economic instability ; energy insecurity ; and the kamikaze Budget send mortgage and interest rate soar . after 14 year , people be bad off , taxis be high , cost be high and growth be stagnant , and there be nothing the Government can announce next week to change any of that . first , let I add my voice to the many tribute that have be pay both to Lord Cormack and to Ronnie Campbell . they be public servant who be thoughtful and committed , both to Parliament and to many other organisation and institution . I hope that those many tribute bring comfort to their love one . I also join in the tribute the hon . Lady pay to Dave Myers , one half of the Hairy Bikers . he bring so much joy to so many people across our country and elsewhere . the hon . Lady ask I several question , first about risk - base exclusion . I do not think she have quite process the full extent of the consequence of what happen last week . the Government give time to this debate and we want it debate . I be part of the Commission and I want it debate and resolve in this House . give the current climate and the concern that hon . member have raise since the motion be table — there have be some serious question , in particular from learn colleague — there will be a well opportunity to debate this in the House , and I hope that will be soon . I be not expect the hon . Lady to give we any credit at all , as that be not her job . she do not welcome the figure on irregular migration that be out today , which show that our plan be work . she will know that the Budget , which I announce in the business , will be very soon , and I be sure we can all see the progress that have be make and that the Chancellor will set that out in due course . as for what the hon . Lady say about intimidation , let I repeat what I say last week : this House will not , have not and must not bow to terrorism or intimidation . we be experience a new form of an old story . as well as those colleague slay since 2016 , there be other who be murder and whose shield be on the wall of this Chamber , above the door . there be member who sit on these Benches who can recall be issue with mirror to look under their car in the morning . we be face a new form of that old threat . it fail then and it be go to fail now , but while we focus on end that threat , we must not lose sight of the good in our country and what we can all do to help this situation . the hon . Lady raise the issue of the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) . I know she will want to hear one word from he , but yesterday he provide we with 1 , 000 word . I read his piece in the Express and it be some distance from the view he express in the original interview . I think what he write in the Express be his genuine view . we might have to accept that those 1 , 000 word be the close we will get to the one - word apology that other seek . the hon . Lady have understandably choose to scold he ; I would rather ask he to consider all the good he could do , whatever political hue he end up be , in these particular time with the trust and follow he have build up . she ask what action the Government have take to combat these issue ; I point she to the work of the defend democracy taskforce , the work I have do in this place on combat conspiracy theory and the new system we have set up . the shadow Leader of the House be right that we also need to reflect on our own behaviour . I would ask she to consider on whose Benches Members sit who have suggest that we lynch a Government Minister , who have call hon . member " scum " or who have say " I want to be in a situation where no Tory MP , no Tory MP , no coalition minister , can travel anywhere in the country , or show their face anywhere in public , without be challenge " . which party ' s action have make it more likely that an antisemite will be swear into this House next week ? which party last week trash the understanding and foundation of trust upon which this place need to operate ? [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady roll her eye . I would ask she to consider what she could do to rectify that situation . there be many good people in the Labour party ; there be many good people who have also be drive from it . despite good attempt to knock it off the medium agenda or pretend it be otherwise , the strong moral compass we want to see from our nation ' s political leader , especially at time like this , be miss from the Labour party . that be sad and it be shameful . I call the Father of the House . follow the comment make by the shadow Leader of the House about risk - base exclusion , I be glad that motion be not come forward next week , as there should be more consideration . it be a matter of record that two major newspaper make sex - base accusation against I , but I be not investigate by the police or as a result refer . it be only arrest that make a difference . it be absurd and naive to think that be someone to be suspend and get a proxy vote , their anonymity could in any sense be guarantee in this country or not report in other country . this be a serious problem . I be not certain we have find exactly the right way of deal with it . will the Government make a statement next week on revisionism and who be the lead designer of the national Holocaust memorial and propose learning centre ? one of the Government ' s nominee as chair of the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation be quote in the jewish News yesterday say that Ron Arad be the person responsible . every Government comment , from 2016 onwards , have acknowledge quite rightly that the main designer be Sir David Adjaye OM — a name that can not normally be mention because of problem I do not want to go into on the Floor of the House . could Ministers refer Lord Pickles to the press notice that go out in the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation ' s name in 2016 , 2018 and every year since , because we must get the fact right and not change they ? I reassure my hon . friend that we be listen to the House . risk - base exclusion and other such scheme be a matter for the House and all member need to have confidence in those process . he have successfully put on record his concern about that aspect of the Holocaust memorial . I will ensure the Secretary of State have hear what he have say , and he can raise it directly with he on 4 March . I call the SNP spokesperson . a lot have happen since the Leader of the House and I last face each other , and I commend she for her intervention in last week ' s event . she act , as she say , to defend the right of minority party . that be the right thing to do , but what a dismal reflection on Westminster that the right of minority party mp in this place now need protect and defend . the whole House know how we get here . at some point we will get to the bottom of what pressure there be , exactly what dealing be do behind victorian screen , and what " simply urge the Speaker " actually mean . to be fair , some Labour figure be fesse up at the weekend , or perhaps gloating , about their tactic — all because the SNP want to debate an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . People might ask why I be not tackle the Leader of the House today on her Government ' s economic policy , Brexit or child poverty . we will return to our normal business question exchange of course , but at the core of our work as mps be that all member and party must be treat fairly , and see to be treat fairly . for as long as Scotland send mps here , we will expect and demand that . no one party can be allow to change the rule by bully . there be not a great deal that the Leader of the House and I agree on , but I know that on this we do . what use can she make of her office to ensure that we never find ourselves in that sorry procedural mess again , and can she tell we when the replacement SNP Opposition day will be ? finally , after the giant lobby of Parliament by campaigner yesterday , I must again raise the Government ' s repeat delay in deliver full and fair compensation to those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . I know that the Leader of the House recognise the fully justified depth of anger about this . can she tell we what progress have be make ahead of the Budget to set up the structure of the compensation scheme transparently and in consultation with victim and their family , so that it be ready to start allocate fund at the early opportunity ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and I understand why people will have to wait for normal combat to be resume between we . I disagree with one thing that she , and other hon . member , have say : that this Chamber , and Westminster collectively , do not cover itself in glory last week . I think that the issue have be about the action of particular individual and what they have do . many member of this House do a good thing last week by stand up to protect the right , the foundation and the rulebook that we operate on . with regard to those who be catch up in something else , many member have recognise that that be the wrong thing to do , and that we need to address that . the Government will give the SNP more time to have the debate that it ought to have . I understand that you , Mr Speaker , have commission the Procedure Committee to look at the particular procedural issue that happen last week . I understand that the scope of that work be narrow , so it should be do swiftly . I hope that it will be conclude before the SNP have its next debate , so that it can have confidence in how that debate will run . on the hon . Lady ' s final , very important point , we have just hear from the Paymaster General , who be lead on the issue of infected blood on behalf of the Government . she be right that I have very strong view about this , but they be share by the Paymaster General and all those on the Government Benches . that be why we set up the inquiry , and why we set up the compensation study to run concurrently with it , so that we would not have to wait any long before people get proper redress . I know that the Paymaster General be work on this very swiftly . he update I on a regular basis , and we will keep the House inform . on the first anniversary of the come into force of the Marriage and Civil Partnership ( Minimum Age ) Act 2022 , I be very concerned to learn that child marriage be still take place , and that those with safeguard responsibility be fail to prosecute . it be my understanding that the relevant authority be fail to interpret the law correctly , particularly in relation to marriage take place overseas . can we have a statement on what further education be require as a matter of urgency , so that all those with safeguard responsibility have the necessary knowledge and skill to protect child ? I thank my hon . friend for all her work in this area . she have be an absolute force for good . we would not have bring forward that legislation without her great effort . she be right that we want to ensure that people — particularly those with safeguard responsibility — be take this issue seriously . she will also know that a private Member ' s Bill be look at the responsibility of statutory authority in this regard . I will make sure that the Department have hear the hon . Lady ' s concern on this matter , and I be sure that , give her reputation , they will be listen to . I thank the Leader of the House for our meeting yesterday and for the business statement confirm the timing of the estimate debate for Thursday 14 March . let I inform the House that application for those debate must be with the Clerk of the Committee by lunch time on Monday , so we do not have much time to sort this out — so , that be this come Monday , 4 March , at lunch time . the application will be before the Committee on Tuesday afternoon at our normal meeting . may I let the Leader of the House know that I have now receive a letter from the Procedure Committee regard the proposal to change the timing of debate in Westminster Hall ? I be hopeful that she will have that imminently . may I add my penn ' orth in memory of my friend , Ronnie Campbell ? I have be a Member of this House for only 14 year , but I know Ronnie for more than 40 year . I will be at his funeral in Blyth tomorrow and will certainly pass on the good wish of the member of this House to his wife , Deirdre , and son when I see they . I thank the hon . member for deliver our message at Ronnie ' s funeral tomorrow . I also thank he for the helpful advert for the work of his Committee . he will know that we be keen to ensure that the new innovation in the sit hour of Westminster Hall can be bring into effect and he have my commitment to that . I will also ensure that we be give he good notice on future timing for his Committee . I be very conscious , as we discuss yesterday , that debate have be move for understandable reason — for example the debate on coalmine community be move because of important matter relate to Northern Ireland — and we want to ensure that there be time for those matter to be hear . thank you , Mr Speaker , for host a dinner for OnSide in your apartment this week . that make I think that it be high time that we have a debate in this House about the contribution that youth zone make to east Lancashire . the centre of that debate , Mr Speaker , will be not the Chorley youth zone , as fine as it be , but the brand - new youth zone that be about to be build in Darwen . the £ 3 . 3 million project to help all our young people be support by this government as part of our £ 120 million town deal to transform Darwen . may I congratulate my right hon . friend on another success that he have have with his wish list for his constituent ? I congratulate everyone involve in that project . these be vital community facility , and we all send our congratulation and good wish for this late project in this area . I thank the Leader of the House for an opportunity to raise this question on freedom of religion or belief . the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , which I chair , visit Tunisia last May to highlight some of the issue that be relevant to our all - party group . on Sunday past , a mob in Tunisia burn a synagogue in the city of Sfax . thankfully no one be injure . will the Leader of the House join I and other in denounce this attack and call for close monitoring of the issue relate to freedom of religion or belief ? we again thank the hon . gentleman for what he do every week , which be to shine a spotlight on the situation that be go on around the world that would not normally get this level of attention . it be good to hear from he slightly early in the session this week . as he know , on each occasion , I follow up with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to ensure that our people in - country realise the importance of these matter to we in this place , and I thank he again on behalf of we all for raise they . if freedom of the press mean anything , it mean the freedom to criticise and to oppose . that freedom be in danger if we become the first democracy in the world to allow a foreign Government to buy a national newspaper and medium organisation . my right hon . friend the Leader of the House may be aware that the noble Baroness Stowell have table an amendment to the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill with cross - party support in the House of Lords to prevent that from happen . will the Government support or at least not oppose that amendment in the House of Lords ? be it to come to the Commons , I certainly would support it , and I encourage all right hon . and hon . member to do the same . we must prize freedom of the press in this country , and that amendment be our opportunity to do so . I agree with my right hon . friend . have a free press and a competitive media sector be a vital part of our democracy . the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have an obligation to intervene in media transaction where there be a public interest to do so . as my right hon . friend will understand — more than many — that be a statutory judicial process , so it would not be right for I to comment . on his general point , however , he be absolutely right , and there be audible support from across this Chamber for the position that he outline . on 7 November last year , I write to the then Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , seek a meeting with I and a cross - party group of local mp to discuss an issue of concern express by our constituent . follow the reshuffle and have receive no reply , in December I write again , to the new Secretary of State . we have still not have a response , let alone the meeting that we seek . with the NHS on its knee , I appreciate that the Health Secretary must have a full inbox , but do the Leader of the House agree that it be simply unacceptable that after almost four month , member of this House be still wait for a Minister to reply to our correspondence ? guideline be clear about the time - frame in which department need to respond to member . as the hon . Lady know , my office take that very seriously . we be involve in train the parliamentary clerk in Departments to ensure that they understand the obligation . if she give I further information , I will follow up on the matter of parliamentary correspondence . I do not know the specific of the issue that concern the hon . Lady and her colleague , but she will know that many decision be take locally — I be sure , however , she have already speak to her board and local commissioner . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what she have say , and she can raise it with she directly in oral question on 5 March . the Leader of the House will be aware that the Barking , Havering and Redbridge University Hospitals NHS Trust operate the Queen ' s Hospital in my constituency . I praise the staff and the chief executive for all the work that they do to look after my constituent . however , will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Health to make a statement about the situation in the accident and emergency unit . thirty per cent of patient be be see within four hour , and yet the national average be 5 % . that be unacceptable . will she ask the Secretary of State to visit queen ' s Hospital with I to look at solution and to discuss how we can serve the constituent of Romford well when it come to the local hospital and NHS service in the London Borough of Havering ? I join my hon . friend in the praise that he heap on his healthcare professional , in particular at the Queen ' s Hospital in his constituency . he may be aware that the Secretary of State ' s predecessor do a piece of work to ensure that we be able to compare the performance of different trust and different hospital across the whole UK , so that we can identify where more assistance be need or whether there be issue with performance and so forth . I will ensure that the Secretary of State hear what my hon . friend have say today . again , he may raise it directly with the Front - Bench team on 5 March at Question Time . for some time now , I have be in support of a safeguard assist die law for mentally - competent terminally - ill adult with a life expectancy prognosis of six month . I be not always of that opinion — I have have to go on a journey — but have conclude that the evidence be overwhelming that that would be a step in the right direction , and public opinion be now very much in favour of a change in the law . I recognise that there be considerable concern on the opposite side of the argument , but in the light of the news that the Isle of Man and Jersey be consider a change in the law , be it not time that we in this House have a fresh look at the matter , with a debate in Government time ? I thank the hon . Lady for her work in that area . she will know that if such matter come to the Floor of the House , it would be on a free vote basis — they be matter of conscience . I very much understand the head of steam that be build behind both side of the argument . it have be a little while since we have have a debate on that matter . she will know what option be open to she to secure a debate , be it an Adjournment debate or one secure through the Backbench Business Committee , but I will ensure that all relevant Departments have hear what she and other hon . member have say . my right hon . friend will , like I , have constituent whose water be supply by Southern Water . after two week of obfuscation , reassurance and denial by the company that there have be any pollution incident at Fullerton wastewater work in my constituency , we hear from the Environment Agency yesterday that there have be a significant pollution incident of a level that would be hazardous to human health . will she help I by provide Government time for a debate about whether Southern Water remain a fit and proper company to be manage water resource in our region ? she will know as well as I do that it be not simply wastewater that it can not cope with ; it be not any good at supply drinking water either . I thank my right hon . friend for leave the House in no doubt about her frustration and disappointment about the situation with Southern Water . I have experience similar feeling towards that company . what be particularly disappointing in this episode affect her constituent be that although massive progress have be make in monitor storm overflow — we have go from just 6 % be monitor to almost 100 % — the quality of that monitoring be critical , and the assurance that she have be give about what be happen and about the type of water be expel into a river have turn out not to be correct . there be question for Southern Water and the Environment Agency . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have hear what she have say , and will ask his official to get in contact with her office . we need a fresh statement on the infected blood scandal . my constituent Sue Sparkes be in the House yesterday . she be widow at the age of 31 when her husband , Les , pass away in 1991 have contract hepatitis C and HIV from infected blood . the Leader of the House mention a " moral compass " in her statement . may I remind she that member from across this House show their moral compass when , for the only time in this Parliament , they defeat the Government on this issue ? that be why the Government have make the statement that they have — but they be still not pay the full and fair compensation that have be call for by Sir Brian Langstaff . when will the Government make a statement on the compensation , and will the Budget indicate that it will happen immediately ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that question , and I thank all the directly affected people , and those support they and the various campaign group , who take the time to visit Parliament yesterday . I think that we have do the right thing in grip this issue through the inquiry that we have set up and the compensation study . the hon . Gentleman will know of my interest in this area . I assure he that I get regular update from the Paymaster General , and I do not think it will be too long before he will be able to come to the House to make further announcement — he be make progress . this be the final stage of the process ; it be the most difficult . I know that the Paymaster General be determined to deliver the right outcome for all those infected and affect by that appalling scandal . the emotional aftermath and devastate life that be leave after violent knife crime have be highlight in a recent , very powerful documentary title " Grief " , produce locally in the west midland by the Express and Star . it be a really poignant reminder of the call for action and awareness , and feature the brave story of two grieve family — two set of parent , include one from my constituency . I know that the Home Secretary take this issue very seriously , but can my right hon . friend provide we with an update on when legislation will be bring forward to deliver a ban on machete and zombie - style knife ? I thank my right hon . friend for all the work she be do on this issue . I have witness that work at first hand , have visit her constituency and meet with one set of those parent she mention — I praise they for all the work they be do to turn the tragedy that befell they into some positive action . as she have kindly mention , the Home Secretary be committed to this issue , and be continually look at what more can be do . the particular statutory instrument to which my right hon . friend refer , which be lay before Parliament on 25 January , be currently on remain order and be yet to be debate in both Houses , but I think that will happen extremely soon . as she know , we be make progress on that . on 18 January , I raise the case of Pilsworth South landfill in my constituency , which have be give off an awful smell due to the operator breach its licence . I ask the Leader of the House whether we could have a debate in Government time about give the Environment Agency more tooth in relation to matter like this , and I appreciate she write to the Environment Secretary on my behalf . however , can we have a statement from the Secretary of State on potential prosecution of operator that breach their licence , so that our constituent no long suffer from this stench and we can stop the stink ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his continued work in this area — my office stand ready to help he on all front . as he know , he can raise this matter directly with the Secretary of State on 14 March , but give that that date be a little way off , I will make sure that the Secretary of State hear what the hon . Gentleman have say today . last week , the government - fund organisation Tell MAMA publish its late datum on anti - muslim hatred and Islamophobia incident . that datum show that there have be 2 , 000 - plus incident in four month — an increase of over 300 % . between that time and now , there have be no statement from the Government on tackle Islamophobia . last week , there be a statement from the Government on tackle antisemitism ; can the Leader of the House clarify to I when the Government will make a statement on tackle Islamophobia , note those late datum ? I be sure she agree with I , and with every Member of this House , that we should do everything we can to ensure that all our faith community be treat fairly and equally . I agree with my hon . friend ' s comment — that be a duty on we all . he may wish to know that I have also ask for a meeting with the Government ' s envoy for freedom of religion or belief , my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , and the Minister responsible to look at what more we parliamentarian can do to ensure that all community and faith group feel properly support in these time . I will make sure that the relevant Department hear what my hon . friend have say today . I have no intention of come to ask the Leader of the House a question , but early she mention the exclusion of member of Parliament . just to be clear about the language , what we be talk about be people who have be arrest for sexual crime be exclude from this estate . she say that we can not have that debate , and that member need to trust the process — well , staff also need to trust what happen here . she say that we can not have the debate because of what happen last week . I have absolutely no idea how what happen last week have anything to do with keep this building safe ; could the Leader of the House elaborate on why what happen last week have get anything to do with something we have be fight for for five year ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . it be because this rely on the trust and confidence that member have in other member in this place , but also in the House authority . the hon . Lady will know that I be part of the Commission . we have bring forward and table these proposal , but we also have a duty to listen to hon . and right hon . member in this place , otherwise such motion will fail . I have to say that there be a very small set of circumstance — I can not actually think of a set — where this would ever be use , because what would happen , if the House authority be notify of any issue of concern , be that bail condition would be apply to that individual , and therefore the process would not be trigger . we be talk about a set of circumstance where there would be some other kind of risk . it be not an immediate emergency . it be important that we debate these thing . it be particularly important to Mr Speaker , upon whom the responsibility for these issue currently fall . clearly , a process be be propose that would take that responsibility away from he . I be tell all hon . and right hon . member that we need to debate these matter , take seriously the concern of our colleague . just come to this place , and imply that member on the Government Benches do not care about these issue be not helpful . my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) refer to the issue of foreign state ownership and purchase , and the freedom of the press . I have to say that there have be plenty of time when I have certainly not like what the press have write about I , or , indeed , about my party or other aspect . however , this do matter for the press — unlike for other industry , where I think it be perfectly valid for there to be ownership or part - ownership by foreign state , and in the past we have encourage that , go both way . I think it be vital , if the Government do not have the power they think they need or be rely on some aspect of some other competition authority , that we put something in place to make sure that the freedom of the press be preserve forever . in particular , I be think right now of the Telegraph and the Spectator . my right hon . friend make her point very well , and I be pleased that she have get that on record . a free press , whether nationally or at local level , be a fundamental part of our democracy . if we lose that , we will lose a very great thing that our democracy lean upon . it should be protect . I think hon . and right hon . member will continue to raise their concern about this matter , and I will make sure that the Government have hear . my constituent Marie take ill health retiral in 2010 , only to later discover that she need to wait until she be 66 for her state pension . during that time she receive no benefit support , after lose employment and support allowance . she be not advise to apply for the personal independence payment , and she lose her home due to affordability issue . she have be let down by the Department for Work and Pensions at every turn , with an increase pension age without notification , incorrect advice on benefit , and no guidance on qualifying year , leave she with a reduce state pension . what step have the Government take to make sure that the DWP give everyone the correct advice and support they be entitle to , include national insurance contribution towards the state pension ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this question . give that the Department ' s question be not until 18 March , I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear his particular concern and ask his official to contact the hon . Gentleman ' s office . my constituent have raise concern with I about the number of pothole throughout Tamworth . some be be fill in , which be positive news , but many remain unfilled , and there be a broad need for resurface work on road with high volume of traffic and those impact by heavy good vehicle . what assessment have the Government make of the adequacy of the funding that have be provide to county council to deal with our crumble road infrastructure ? the hon . Lady will know that , in part because of the particularly bad weather we have recently have , there have be a considerable uplift in money give to local authority to tackle precisely the type of issue that she raise . although that money be not strictly ringfence , we want to be assure it have be spend on those thing correctly , and all local authority be require to place in the public domain , I think on 15 March , what they have do with that money and what repair they have carry out . it be extremely important that that work be do . we want to ensure that it be be do and have be do , and I be sure the hon . Lady will be able to find out exactly what have be spend and on what . the Leader of the House will have hear my challenge to Cabinet Office Ministers early about the worrying uncertainty swirl around the inspectorate for migration , immigration and border after the sacking of David Neal , and it be disappointing that we have both not have a statement from the Home Office give the urgency of the situation and fail to get the urgent question I apply for on behalf of the Select Committee on Home Affairs . the issue be not just the status of the 15 unpublished report — some unpublished for a very long time — but uncertainty about the status of the inspectorate and whether it can carry on with its current work and review , let alone take up its schedule review and address how they will be report in future , until we have a new inspector , which could take at least six month . will the Leader of the House urgently get clarification from the Home Office about the working of this very important inspectorate on a very topical issue ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . the Home Secretary will not be at the Dispatch Box for question until 15 April . I will raise this matter with the Home Secretary on behalf of my hon . friend and the Committee on which he serve and ask he to update the Committee and this House . this weekend the first romanian weekend school will open in my constituency in St Teresa ' s primary school . this will be the first romanian supplemental school , add to the weekend school we have for the wide range of diaspora in and around my constituency . while I be sure my right hon . friend will welcome this initiative , may we have a debate in Government time on how we can provide more opportunity for supplemental school for the various diaspora in this country , give the challenge they face in try to introduce these school ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the question and all who have enable this school to be stand up . I know he will want to get on record how important this be to diaspora community . he be an experienced parliamentarian and will know how to apply for a debate and the various option open to he . I thank he for get his praise for all involve on the record today . may we have a debate in Government time on endanger specie ? give the party of Disraeli and Churchill be now the mainstream of new - right fanatic and conspiracy theorist , I be particularly concerned about the lesser - spot one nation Tory . my concern be reinforce last week when the former Prime Minister the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) tell CPAC , the conservative political action conference , that her party be full of cino , which mean conservative in name only . who do the Leader of the House think she mean ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the characteristically amusing way in which he have raise an important question . he know I have take the matter of conspiracy theory very seriously as Leader of the House . we have stand up new service in the Library so that hon . member can swiftly reassure their constituent on not just the fact of a particular matter but the origin of whatever they might have see on social medium , and very shortly , with the Speaker ' s help , we will be launch some training for member on deal with this issue . those be the sort of thing we should all be focus on . do the Leader of the House agree that far from be a major cause of climate change , Welsh farmer , such as Richard Jones from Brynsiencyn , be the guardian and protector of the Welsh countryside ? because of their dedication and hard work , Wales be as beautiful as it be and able to feed we . may I thank my hon . friend for get that on record ? the Welsh farming community have conduct themselves brilliantly in these difficult and uncertain time for their community and their future . we know they do an amazing job , and they should be proud of that . everyone in this place should be proud of that . the plan of labour ' s Welsh Government be appal and should be object to in the strong term . the Welsh farming community have be do just that . they have be stand up and fight , and they deserve our support in do so . today be Rare Disease Day , which be appropriate , give that it be 29 February . one in 17 people be affect by rare disease or condition , and they face common challenge , include delay diagnosis , lack of treatment and poor co - ordination of care . this afternoon , we will be celebrate with our Rare Disease Day reception . it will be a chance to meet , discuss our concern and exchange view , as well as to celebrate the work do by patient group to bring this issue to the forefront . can we have a debate in Government time on address the challenge face by those with rare disease ? on behalf of we all , may I thank the hon . Lady for that helpful advert ? this issue will affect many of our constituent , and she be right about the particular challenge with research funding , and the ability of patient to access specialist clinician deal with these issue be important . I be proud of this Government ' s record on our life science reform , which have enable expert from around the world , often in different discipline area , to work together to get fast to solution in these disease area . I hope that many member will be attend the event that the hon . Lady have advertise for we . accord to a whistleblower allegedly within Openreach , the transition to overhead cabling have on too many occasion appear to be proceed without sufficient consultation with key stakeholder and , more importantly , local resident . regrettably , in my constituency of Southport , it would appear that Openreach have sidestep its own procedure for gain community agreement , disrespect the will of local resident . I call on the Leader of the House to request that the relevant Minister make a statement on these practice by Openreach . it be imperative that we ensure Openreach ' s strict adherence to its own policy and legal responsibility , particularly if those be take into account when it be award the contract . I also urge the Leader of the House to urge the Minister to put a pause on all activity by Openreach where it can not be confirm that it have adhere to its own policy and procedure . my hon . friend have make some precise ask to protect his constituent and their interest . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what he have say . I will write on his behalf and ask that an official from the Department get in touch with his office swiftly . the Leader of the House have be helpful on the contaminated blood scandal . can we have a statement from the Government on the issue that have arise in the last few day , which be that we be not allow to know who be in the expert group work with the Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) — at pace , I understand — to set out the compensation that will be payable ? the write answer give to one member of this House be that that be for reason of their privacy . the Leader of the House will understand that there be a huge amount of distrust because of what have happen over the past 40 or 50 year with the scandal . why will the Government not tell this House and the population at large who be advise they and give they that expert advice ? I thank the right hon . Lady for raise this matter and all the work she be do on behalf of those infect and affect by this terrible scandal . the Paymaster General have just be at the Dispatch Box . I do not hear all the thing he say , but I will certainly ensure he be in touch with the right hon . Lady on these specific point . on other recent personnel concern , I know he want to ensure that trust and confidence be retain during this process , while be able to move thing swiftly forward . one thing he must balance be precisely that . everyone in this House want the matter resolve swiftly . this final piece of work , which be the hard piece in the whole process , need to be get on with and do . I know that the Paymaster General do not want that slow down , but the right hon . Lady be right that we need to ensure that people will have confidence in the outcome . we all know how important town centre be to our local community and how they have be face with the challenge of online retail and out - of - town shopping . Rugby town centre continue to have a strong independent sector with much love retailer , and now the Conservative - lead borough council be take the initiative with an ambitious plan for regeneration include residential unit and a food , drink and leisure economy . however , to achieve that goal , with all the benefit that will provide to my constituent , it will need support from both the public and private sector . may we have a debate about how , work together , we can unlock regeneration scheme such as that in Rugby ? I thank my hon . friend for all the progress that he and his council be make on that . member of Parliament can clearly help with create the share focus across sector to enable regeneration to happen . I know that he be well place to do that , and he know that he can also raise this matter with the relevant Secretary of State on Monday 4 March . on Friday , victim of rape and serious sexual assault in Scotland will be the first in the UK to have free access to court transcript under a new pilot scheme . however , the UK Government be refuse to match that in England and Wales , and be only commit to a one - year pilot scheme in which free copy of sentencing remark will be make available to victim of serious crime . that be not good enough and fail victim like my constituent Juliana Terlizzi , who be charge more than £ 7 , 000 to read the transcript of her rapist ' s trial . I table an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill that would have require the Government to provide free access to court transcript in England and Wales , but they have not listen to our concern . will the Leader of the House provide a debate in Government time on the implementation of free access to court transcript to help get victim like Juliana the justice they deserve ? I thank the hon . Lady for ask that important question . it be not just about cost ; there be also sometimes difficulty and complexity in know how to go about access or even request particular transcript . give that the Lord Chancellor will not be in the House to answer question until 26 March , I will write on the hon . Lady ' s behalf and ask he to update she . over the last week , some fairly serious concern have be raise about the conduct of the Leader of the Opposition and his role in the event lead up to last Wednesday ' s deeply disappointing debacle . might that conduct now form the basis of an investigation by the Committee of Privileges ? will the Leader of the House explain how that that would work ? I thank my hon . friend for raise concern , which I know be concern for he and for other member . the procedure regard the Privileges Committee be there for all member to see . the House must ask the Privileges Committee to carry out any work of this nature . it be incredibly important that any request to do that follow the rule , and therefore be confidential — that confidentiality be incredibly important to that process — so the first that the House would hear about such work would be from the Office of the Speaker . the rule be there . clerk of the House can also help hon . member if they have further question in this regard . I do hope that the House will be able to move on from what happen , but I do understand fully why people want the fact examine . do the Leader of the House share my concern that the long - run industrial action at the Pensions Regulator need a speedy response ? the Public and Commercial Services Union have put forward a set of reasonable proposal , but it be disappointing that the chief executive , Nausicaa Delfas , will not even meet the union to discuss they . PCS member be take their second day in the late round of 12 day of strike action as part of a dispute now into its seventh month . I hope the Leader of the House agree that we need to find time to have a debate on this dispute to ensure that it can be resolve and to prevent further damage to staff welfare and the organisation ' s reputation . I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue . she will know the option open to she to secure a debate on this matter . she will also be able to raise it directly with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on 18 March . I thank my right hon . friend for withdraw the motion schedule for Monday , in response to the amendment that I table . will she review the whole situation of risk - base exclusion , take into account last night ' s unanimous decision by the House of Lords to ensure that risk - base exclusion from the House of Lords be trigger only by someone have be charge with a sexual criminal offence that would lead to a sentence of imprisonment in excess of two year ? we have one parliamentary estate , so would it not be ludicrous to have different exclusion rule for the House of Lords and the House of Commons ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . although we might operate under different rule at each end of this Parliament , the principle should be the same . the House of Lords be very different from the House of Commons , so I be less concerned about our diverging in that respect . however , the principle and the outcome of the process need to be the same . many member — in particular learn member — have raise concern about some aspect of the scheme . I want the House of Commons Commission to bring the matter to the Floor of the House , even if it be not amend , when those matter and reassurance have be address . that be very important . People need to have trust and confidence in how that process will work . the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , have be in the US peddle conspiracy theory , claim that the " deep state " bring she down . she stand silently next to Steve Bannon as he call Tommy Robinson a hero — a man whose follower have repeatedly send I rape and death threat for call out his inappropriate behaviour in this House . will the Leader of the House explain why the right hon . Member still have the Conservative Whip ? I thank the hon . Lady for afford we all the opportunity to condemn Tommy Robinson and all he stand for . she will know from my early answer that I take these matter of conspiracy theory , the erosion of trust and the sowing of fear among the general public very seriously . that be why I have give hon . member new tool to combat these issue through the very good House of Commons Library . I will take it as a ringing endorsement of this Government ' s progress and the fact our plan be work that Opposition Members have be so obsess this week with the former Prime Minister , and not the current one . new analysis show that the Scottish Government ' s policy will lift 100 , 000 child out of relative poverty and 70 , 000 child out of absolute poverty in 2024 - 25 — a direct result of action take by the Scottish Government to eliminate the scourge in our society . the Child Poverty Action Group describe the scottish child payment as a " game changer " in drive down child poverty . will the Leader of the House make a statement to recognise the importance of the scottish child payment to combat child poverty ? would she like such a measure to be roll out across England , so that the poor child in England can also benefit from that vital support ? one of the strength of the Union of the United Kingdom be that we can choose different way of do thing , often achieve the same outcome and certainly share our objective . she will know this Government ' s record in this area : we have 1 million few workless household and , base on recent figure , we have lift more than 500 , 000 child out of poverty . we all must work on these thing , whatever particular system cover our nation . [ Official Report , 11 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 1mc . ] ( Correction ) I would like to follow up on the word salad the Leader of the House give in response to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) on why the risk - base exclusion process have be pull from the Order Paper . the Leader of the House talk about last week ' s event be part of the reason . surely last week tell we that , actually , the security and safety of people who work on the estate , not just member , be really important and should be more of a priority ? she also say in response to my hon . friend ' s question that it be important we have a debate , so surely keep the matter on the Order Paper , have that debate and ventilate the issue in the open would be the good way of reach a resolution ? I remind she that she promise it would be vote on by the end of last year . be there a date now by which we will get to move on this ? I repeat my commitment to bring the matter to the Floor of the House . I table it and I want it to be debate . I would just challenge what the hon . Gentleman say . last week be not about the security of member of this House . the hon . Gentleman be under a complete illusion if he think that that be the case . what happen last week be that the thing we trust in our rule book in this place be upend for political advantage . I do not want to bring forward a debate that require hon . member to trust in system we be put in place when that trust be fractured . let we work together to rebuild that trust . let we address the legitimate concern that our colleague have raise and let we bring it back to be debate . I do not think that be a controversial view . I have always oppose capital punishment on the principle that it be wrong to take a life , so it can not be right for the state to take a life in revenge . event have cause I to reconsider my position . may we have a debate on crime against humanity and the appropriate punishment for those who perpetrate , collude in and cover up atrocity and crime so severe that the ultimate punishment may be require ? I think the hon . Gentleman ' s incredibly subtle question , and where he might be take it , be not lose on anyone in this House . it be appropriate that the finale of this session , which have feature so heavily conspiracy theory , should fall to the hon . Gentleman . I would just caution he to reflect on his own behaviour and what he do on social medium , and on the security measure that have have to be step up for hon . member in the wake of some of his social medium tweet and question in this House . whatever my disagreement with the hon . Gentleman , I will always stand ready to get answer from Departments and assist he in his work , but I be go to call out , on every occasion , when he do thing that I think be a danger to our democracy , and to the safety and security of member of this House . last week ' s datum show that the UK economy be in recession , with seven quarter of negative growth , and the fact that we have the worst - perform economy in the G7 be pretty damning . the situation in the west midland be particularly concern . last November , PricewaterhouseCoopers publish a report predict that the west midland would have the low growth of all region in the UK . that be not a good look for the record of Andy Street , the Mayor of the West Midlands . may we have a debate on this really important driver of the UK economy , the west midland ? I look forward to the Budget debate and the Chancellor set the record straight with regard to the west midland . Mayor Andy Street have perform miracle : he have be an amazing community leader ; he have galvanise all sector ; and he be regenerate part of Birmingham and suburb around it that have not have the attention and inward investment they need . there be problem in that area in the legacy of Birmingham City Council and its appalling maladministration , and with the Labour police and crime commissioner . I hope Andy Street will be able to have more influence over those area in the come month and year . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . normally , point of order come after all the statement , but if the hon . Gentleman ' s point of order be pertinent to the business before the House , I will take it . I be very grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker . I owe the House an apology : in my early advertisement for the ware of the Backbench Business Committee , I suggest that the deadline for application for estimate day debate be lunch time on Monday , but it be in fact close of play on Monday — when the House rise on Monday evening . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I be so pleased when I hear a point of order that be a point of order . [ laughter . ] write it in your diary . I will write : " today I deal with a point of order that be , in fact , a point of order . " the hon . Gentleman rightly correct what he have say before , and hopefully that mean he will receive even more application for Backbench Business debate . I thank he . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in my question to the Leader of the House about the announcement of the win designer of the holocaust memorial project , I refer to the year 2016 , but I should have refer to 2017 or 2018 . I be sorry to have to correct the record . once again , this be get very exciting . I have take two genuine point of order , include that one from the Father of the House . I be grateful to he for correct the record , and I understand the importance of the point that he have make . Angiolini Inquiry Report with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the Angiolini inquiry . three year ago , Sarah Everard be abduct , rape and murder by an off - duty serve police officer . it be a gut - wrench betrayal , an abuse of power of the most egregious kind , and the country be shake to its core . my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , establish an inquiry to examine the many failing arise from the Sarah Everard case , chair by Lady Elish Angiolini KC . part 1 focus on examine Wayne Couzens ' career and previous behaviour , and a report deal with its finding have be publish today . first and foremost , we should take time to think about Sarah Everard ' s family and love one at what must be an incredibly difficult time . I pay tribute to they all for the immense dignity that they have show in the face of such an unbearable loss in such terrible circumstance . tragically , the report make it clear that Couzens be completely unsuitable to serve as a police officer , and , worse still , that there be numerous occasion when that should , and could , have be recognise . Lady Elish identify significant and repeat problem in recruitment and vetting throughout Couzens ' career , include the overlooking of his chaotic financial situation . this mean that he be able to serve in a range of privileged role , for instance as a firearm officer . it be appal that report of indecent exposure by Couzens be not take seriously enough by the police , and that officer be not adequately train , equipped or motivate to investigate the allegation properly . have full inquiry be make in 2015 and 2020 , Couzens could and probably would have be remove from police . evidence of his preference for extreme and violent pornography , and of his allege sexual offending , date back nearly 20 year prior to Sarah Everard ' s murder . the inquiry find that Couzens be adept at hide his grossly offensive behaviour from most of his colleague , but that he share his vile and misogynistic view on a WhatsApp group . the other member of that group be no long serve officer , after a range of disciplinary process . the fact that many of his alleged victim feel unable to report their experience at the time speak to the issue of confidence in police among woman . I wish to place on the record my thank to Lady Elish and her team for this report . it be a deeply distressing but incredibly important piece of work , and they have approach it with thoroughness , professionalism and sensitivity . we all owe thank to those who come forward and give brave testimony to the inquiry . everyone who Couzens hurt be in my thought today . the report make 16 recommendation , include improve the police response to indecent exposure , reform police recruitment and vetting practice , and address culture in police . the Government will now carefully consider the report and respond formally in due course , and I assure the House that our response will be prompt . we be take action to address public confidence in the police , and there have already be progress in a number of area that have be highlight by the inquiry . anyone who be not fit to wear the uniform , for whatever reason , must be remove from police , and every effort must be make to ensure that similar people never join . that be why we be provide funding to the National Police Chiefs ' Council to develop an automate system for flag intelligence about officer much more quickly . we be change the rule to make it easy for force to remove those who can not hold the minimum level of clearance . Police chief be get back the responsibility for chair misconduct hearing , so that they can well uphold standard in the force that they lead , and there will be a presumption of dismissal for any officer find to have commit gross misconduct . I can announce today that there will also be automatic suspension of police officer charge with certain criminal offence , but the work must continue . part 2 of the Angiolini inquiry be consider systemic issue in policing , such as vetting , recruitment and the culture , as well as the safety of woman in public space . I will of course read the finding closely and with care . Sarah Everard ' s murder start a national conversation about violence against woman and girl , and my right hon . friend the Member for Witham reopen a call for evidence that go on to receive 180 , 000 response from member of the public , with many share their harrowing personal experience . that evidence demonstrate the terrible truth : woman and girl routinely feel unsafe . this be unacceptable and should anger we all , and the whole of society need to treat change in this area as an urgent priority . tackle violence against woman and girl have be a priority for I for a long time . it be now a priority set out in the strategic policing requirement , mean that VAWG be rightly consider to be as serious a focus as tackle terrorism . our tackle violence against woman and girl strategy and tackle domestic abuse plan be back up by significant investment . we be change the law so that rapist will serve their full sentence behind bar , with no option of release at the two - third point , and anyone who commit a murder with a sexual or sadistic element will spend the rest of their day in prison . our safe street fund and safety of woman at night fund support a range of project across England and Wales . the online StreetSafe tool enable the public to anonymously report area where they feel unsafe and why . there be a new national operating model for the investigation of rape and serious sexual offence , which mean that the police and prosecutor will work together more closely , build strong case that focus on the behaviour of the suspect , and that place victim at the heart of everything . we have also launch a nationwide behaviour change campaign call " Enough " to bring about an endure shift in the attitude and behaviour that underpin the abuse of woman and girl . Most police officer use their power to serve the public bravely and well , but the impact can be devastating when they fall short . society can not function properly when trust in the police be erode . I be unambiguous that police force must keep improve and must command the confidence of the people they serve . it be imperative that police leadership , of whatever rank , play its part in this endeavour . once again , I express my heartfelt sympathy to Sarah Everard ' s family and friend . I can not begin to imagine the extent of their pain . together , we must do everything possible to stop such agony be visit on other , to rebuild public trust , and to make sure that our street and public place , as well as the private realm , be safe for woman and girl . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of the statement . three year ago this Sunday , a young woman walk home be abduct and brutally kill by a serve police officer who she should have be able to trust to keep she safe . today we think of Sarah Everard and her parent , family and friend , who have to live with the shatter consequence of what happen . this be also a day when many family who have lose sister , daughter and mother to violence be here in Parliament to hear my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , read out the name of the woman kill this year . today ' s damn report be about woman ' s safety . it be for all the woman across the country who worry about walk home alone , or who worry about their daughter ' safety . it be also about trust and confidence in policing , and whether we have the standard in place to maintain confidence in individual officer . the work of the vast majority of police officer who work immensely hard and with integrity to keep community safe be undermine when standard fail . I thank Lady Elish Angiolini for her inquiry and this comprehensive first report . I also thank those who come forward to give evidence . the report expose a catalogue of appal failure in police vetting and misconduct process , and in the investigation of indecent exposure and sexual offence . Wayne Couzens should never have be a police officer . he should have be stop , and he could have be stop , from be a police officer . it be truly appalling . his history of allege sexual offending stretch back so many year , yet the opportunity to investigate be repeatedly miss . most disturbing of all , Lady Angiolini say that there be " nothing to stop another Couzens operate in plain sight . " although I agree with most of what the Home Secretary say , I have to be blunt about this : his response be too weak — too little , too late . the lack of urgency be unfathomable to I . the Government have be repeatedly warn about failure around vetting and misconduct . independent inspectorate report in 2012 , 2019 , 2022 and 2023 all highlight serious failure in vetting procedure , which be why , two year ago , I call for mandatory national vetting standard . force be work hard , but there be no mandatory standard for all force . all the Government have do be bring in a code of practice two and a half year after Sarah Everard ' s murder , and it be not strong enough . frankly , it be not even clear that Wayne Couzens , or officer such as David Carrick and Cliff Mitchell — both now convict — would definitely have fail the vetting standard and the code of practice have they be in force at the time . the Home Secretary have to go far , and that have to be drive by the Home Office . as for the misconduct change that the Home Secretary refer to , most of they be not even in place yet . again , this be three year after Sarah Everard be murder . will he commit today to a new mandatory vetting framework , underpin by legislation , that all force must abide by , under which any evidence about past domestic abuse or sexual offending will be pursue , and that will not simply take into account conviction ? we will support he in that . at a minimum , will he accept recommendation 6 , which be about a " Review of indecent exposure allegation and other sexual offence record against serve police officer " ? at a minimum , surely he can accept that today . the automatic suspension that the Home Secretary announce do not go far enough . be we to suspend people for criminal offence only once they have be charge ? once the police launch an investigation into domestic abuse or sexual offence by a serve police officer , that officer should be automatically suspend . again , we have call for that repeatedly . the Home Secretary be not go far enough . as for the response on woman ' s safety more widely , that , too , be frankly too week . I welcome many of the policy the Home Secretary refer to and that the Government have introduce over the past few year — most of they be thing we call for — but , again , this go nowhere near far enough . on indecent exposure , we know about the awful murder of Libby Squire in 2019 and the failure to take indecent exposure seriously enough . Libby ' s mother , Lisa Squire , and the Home Affairs Committee Chair have be campaign for strong action on indecent exposure for year now . again , surely the Home Secretary can accept at least the first three recommendation of Lady Elish ' s report , which be on strong police training and guidance on , and a strong approach to , investigate indecent exposure . when it come to woman ' s safety , the reality be that the number of prosecution for domestic abuse have halve ; rape prosecution be still take year ; early action and intervention just do not happen . there be a shocking drift on woman ' s safety and in what the Home Secretary have say today . I urge he to : support labour ' s call for new vetting rule , and for specialist rape and sexual offence unit in every force ; support Raneem ' s law , so that the police respond with urgency to domestic abuse and save life ; and listen to Lisa Squire , the mother of Libby Squire . we say that this report should be a watershed , but we say that Sarah Everard ' s murder three year ago should have be a watershed , and far too little have change . how long must we go on say the same thing ? the first woman ' s safety march be on the street of Leeds nearly 50 year ago , and we be say the same thing about our daughter ' safety today . I be sick and tired of nothing change . I be sick and tired of woman and girl who face abuse and violence not get support , while perpetrator get away with it . enough be enough . let we have some urgency in the Home Secretary ' s response . we can not stand for this any more . the right hon . Lady make a number of point about the finding in the report , and about the issue raise because of Sarah Everard ' s brutal murder . I have continue the work of my predecessor , include that initiate by my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , to make sure that not just the Department , but police force around the country and other organisation , statutory and non - statutory , that deal with the safety of woman , be focus relentlessly on this issue . we have make it clear that there be still much work to do , and , as I commit to do , we will respond promptly to the finding of this report . I understand the frustration that not enough have happen ; thing have not move fast enough , and cultural change still need to be drive through , include on leadership . I have make clear to police leader , both in force around the country and at the College of Policing , my expectation of leadership . this be not just about process and procedure , but about these matter be amplify and support by leadership , and about a real commitment to drive through change in force . I will continue to ensure that that happen . I do not think it be right for the right hon . Lady to say that nothing have change . that would not be an accurate reflection of the situation from the time to which she make reference . there have be a number of improvement . my first visit as Home Secretary be to Holborn police station to look at the team work there . there have be improvement , although I concede that they have not be universally apply . the differential performance among force be not good enough . I have discuss what can happen to ensure the least well perform force match the performance of the good force . there remain a huge amount of work to be do . we be not wait for the outcome of the second inquiry before we take action . we will look at change to the recruitment and vetting process , which have be highlight , but in her inquiry Dame Elish show that there be plenty of occasion when the current system flag problem that be not properly respond to by the force . those be not procedural problem but a culture problem . we will look at what process and procedure need to change , but I will not wait for the second report before do so . I will continue to push for cultural change through society and policing , to ensure that where issue be flag , as they be , they be take seriously and investigate properly to ensure that such a situation will hopefully never happen again . I join everybody in the House in pay tribute to Sarah Everard ' s family . have spend time with they , I hope the report will at least give they some sense of the fact and circumstance around what happen to their beautiful daughter , as they request . I thank Dame Elish Angiolini for her incredible work . this report be only part one ; part two and three will follow . the report have no surprise when we think about what have be say thus far about police since Sarah ' s appal abduction and murder . Zo ë Billingham , his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service and other have highlight many institutional , cultural and practical failure . will the Home Secretary give his own view on what can happen next ? this be a clear call for action for all police force around the country to raise the bar on consistent vetting and action . there be no place for criminal or corrupt conduct in police . we police by consent in our country but that bond have be break with the public , as the report show . with report two and three due to come out , will the Home Secretary give a commitment that , as those review be undertake and as he engage with Dame Elish Angiolini , he will act swiftly where issue be identify and not wait for the publication of further report ? will he also act swiftly on put forward the recommendation in part one of the report ? I thank my right hon . friend for initiate the report and appoint Dame Elish . detail in the report be new to many people and be painful to read , but much of what be highlight be already know . we have not wait for the report to start drive change . I have have conversation with police leadership about my expectation for their focus on the policing of the safety of woman and girl and their attitude towards woman and girl . process and structure be important ; we will review and improve they . however , the good process and structure in the world can not replace focus and leadership . it be incredibly important that leadership at every rank in policing take that seriously . this be a conversation that I have have with police leader and the College of Policing to ensure that the attitude highlight in the report change . without that shift in attitude , all the process in the world will not repair what need to be repair . that be a conversation that I will repeat . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be grateful for advance sight of the statement , and to Dame Elish Angiolini for the careful and thorough way she have work through this task , and the thoughtful way she talk through her finding online early . I , too , be think of Sarah Everard and her family today , as well as the family of Emma Caldwell , who have experience such a protracted , awful ordeal . fundamentally , our police force must both keep we safe and have our confidence that they will do so . of course , most police officer do an excellent job , but trust have be hugely damage by issue be raise — include , as we have hear , indecent exposure — but not act on . we have hear that Wayne Couzens should never have be a police officer . the Home Secretary speak about vetting . I put it to he that we need to hear more about both process and culture . it can not be one before the other ; both must be deal with immediately . I would also like to hear more about how those currently in the force who show tell - tale sign , as Couzens do , will be deal with . what do the Home Secretary mean by " automate system " , and how will they work ? will additional funding be make available to tackle institutional misogyny within the Met , and will Barnett consequential be available so that the Scottish Government can similarly look at the threat of violence against woman and girl , across society and within the police force ? good policing will not end the epidemic of male - inflict violence against woman , but it should mean that man who abuse woman be hold to account . I wonder whether the Home Secretary be aware of the relatively small proportion of police officer investigate for domestic abuse , sexual assault , rape and abuse of position who be suspend over the last two year , and what step he be take to deal with that . will the Home Secretary talk far about those who have raise concern about domestic abuse by police officer , and how the specific action that be need will be take ? this be quite devastating for woman ' s confidence in police . I wonder whether he be consider a statutory inquiry into institutional misogyny within the Metropolitan police . finally , he say at the beginning of his statement that the report and his Government ' s action have bring to light the concern that woman have . I have to say to he that we have have these concern forever . this be not a new situation , but there be now an opportunity to do more about it . I be keen to hear about how that might pan out . on the hon . Lady ' s final point , I want to make it clear what I mean . I be not suggest that the report have bring to my attention , or that of the Department , a problem that be severe and long - standing . when I be at City Hall in the London Assembly , I contribute to the London violence against woman and girl strategy , back in 2008 - 09 , so I have be involve in this area and be passionate about it for the entire time I have be in elect office . what Sarah Everard ' s murder highlight more generally to the public be something that I know woman have know for a very long time : that the public realm be not safe enough ; that their concern be often not take seriously enough ; that there have be a dismissive attitude to non - contact sexual crime ; and that it take far too long to bring domestic abuser to justice , too few of they be bring to justice , and woman do not feel safe during the process . that have be raise by many people in the House . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who have make it clear that far , far more need to be do , which many woman already instinctively know . that be the point that I be make about these tragic circumstance ; we need to bring a great and wide attention to this — a whole society attention . this be an issue about woman and girl , but it be not an issue for woman and girl . it have to be a whole society issue . I remain absolutely committed to ensure that the specific recommendation of the report be respond to promptly , but , as my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , say , we be not wait for the report to come out to take action ; we have already take action and we have already increase funding . with regard to the Barnett consequential , I will have to leave it to other to talk through the implication of that within the wide funding envelope of our support to Scotland as an integral part of the Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . this comprehensive report reveal a truly appalling catalogue of what ultimately turn out to be fatal error , incompetence and complacency , which be epitomise by a culture in part of the Met police — it be important to say " part " — where vile behaviour and deeply abusive language , as we would recognise it to be , constitute banter . Mark Rowley , when he come in , offer in response to open up more than 1 , 000 case of previous scandal and conduct investigation to see whether they have be conduct properly . when the Home Affairs Committee go to see the standard committee at the Met , we be tell that this would take some time and that we would see more of these case come out . can the Home Secretary give we a progress report on what more instance we be likely to see in the public domain ? can we also hear more about an issue that we have raise previously , which be where those review of standard be undertake by other member of the police force . surely there be a case for bring in great independence by use other agency and institution , such as the military , to help with these investigation , as they would approach this from a different standpoint , ensure that it be not just a case of the police mark their own homework . the review that be initiate by my predecessor and work through by the Metropolitan Police Commissioner be important . the commissioner have demonstrate an admirable commitment to reform . have have conversation directly with he about this , I know that he take these issue incredibly seriously . he want to ensure that the Metropolitan police not only serve the capital and everybody in it , but be see to serve they and that there be confidence in that . I will of course consider my hon . friend ' s final point . I sit on the Metropolitan Police Authority ' s professional standard committee from 2008 , when I be first elect , until 2012 . I see the professionalism and alacrity with which the professional standard department of the Metropolitan police set about its work . there be a real anger direct at unprofessional officer by good officer . in my experience , the professional standard team take its work incredibly seriously . the team want to root out bad officer . through the Criminal Justice Bill , we be give chief constable more power to root out bad officer quickly , and I have commit to support they when they do so . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I welcome today ' s statement . I hope that we will get a full response to the report from the Home Secretary very quickly . may I also associate myself with the comment of the Home Secretary and other right hon . and hon . member today ? our thought be with the family and friend of Sarah Everard . I wish to ask the Home Secretary again about this issue of indecent exposure , which be highlight in the report and which he have talk about a little . in my constituency , we have the horrific case of Libby Squire , who be rape and murder by a man who have be stalk woman and roam the street of Hull for 18 month prior to murder she . he have be expose himself and commit act of voyeurism . People do not report his action , because they do not think that the police would take they seriously . Libby ' s mum , Lisa Squire , have be campaign on this for the past few year . she have recently give evidence at a hearing of the Home Affairs Committee . I wonder whether the Home Secretary would meet she , because it would be interesting to know his view . what more can be do now to encourage people — woman in particular — to come forward when such thing happen to they ? I would also say that almost every woman I know have have this happen to they at some stage in their life . this problem be endemic . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for raise this point . I will of course seek to find an opportunity to meet the Squire family about this matter . there need to be a cycle of increase confidence . I hate some of the phraseology that have be apply , and I choose never to apply it about this issue , because there be the implication that these matter be less serious . but the sad truth be that , when we see report of serious sexual violence , we can look back through the case history and often see plenty of example of criminality lead up to that . therefore we do absolutely need to take this seriously . woman who have be the victim of these kind of crime — this kind of behaviour — need to feel confident about report they and they need to feel confident that their report will be take seriously . the more they see the police take action , the more confident they will be in come forward . therefore , we need to develop a virtuous circle . we be not there yet ; indeed , we know that we be a long way from that . we have see this happen in the Couzens case . he be know to have commit these crime , and that should have trigger a much more robust response . but it do not , and we must address why that be the case . we have to ensure that leadership and policing understand that , collectively , this House and the Home Office expect they to take this matter more seriously and send the signal that these crime be not trivial and should not be ignore . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I would like to associate myself with the remark of other — my thought be also with the Everard family . this report tell we that the environment do nothing — nothing — to discourage Couzens ' misogynistic view of woman . we know that not every flasher become a rapist , but we also know that every rapist start somewhere . I respectfully say to my right hon . friend that , of course , there have be good change with regard to criminal justice and long sentence for the most violent and the most serious offence , but that be too late . we have to intervene in the offend journey . last week , my Committee hear from Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stuart Cundy , a man who have take on a really difficult job , overturn those stone in the Metropolitan police and turn up at 1 , 600 instance of officer with at least one allegation of a sexual offence or domestic violence — 1 , 600 . can my right hon . friend give we an assurance today that he will give more power to Stuart Cundy ' s elbow , so that we get rid of these individual from our police service ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . when I talk about that cycle of confidence , woman need to see that when these crime be report , they be investigate and the perpetrator be bring to justice . only then will they feel confident in come forward . these be serious offence ; they be not trivial . she be right to say that not everyone who be a flasher , not everyone who have make unwanted and inappropriate sexual advance to woman , go on to become a rapist or a murderer . none the less , the more people who be dissuade from that behaviour because of swift and professional criminal justice , the more people we can prevent from get to those later stage . that be why this be so important . that be why that cultural change need to be drive through the whole system . a number of the Angiolini recommendation be for Departments other than the Home Office and for public body outside Government — all of we have to take this incredibly seriously . this be a whole of society approach , and that will remain the fundamental philosophy that I use to underpin the work of the Home Office in this area . I associate myself with the comment for the Everard family and with Lady Elish Angiolini . her report today be a continuation of her report that have highlight failure in our criminal justice system . in the Home Secretary ' s statement , I notice mention of funding for the National Police Chiefs ' Council for the flagging of police officer in the vetting system . my own experience in the police service be that it system improvement take a long time and be complex , so I suppose my first question for he be : what timescale do we have in mind for those improvement ? secondly , what engagement be happen with Police Scotland , because police officer transfer to force in and outwith the UK ? finally , if today a serve police officer be find in a concern situation that require input into the intelligence system and they do not identify themselves as a police officer , be we confident that they would be deal with accordingly ? the hon . Lady make a number of point about the implementation of the change that we be make . I can not give precise timescale at the moment , because this piece of work be ongoing and recently initiate , but my desire be for these thing to happen as quickly as possible . she be absolutely right that it and system change be not instant , and I be impatient to get improvement , which be why I keep say that we be not wait for these thing to go forward . they be amplifier and accelerator of what should be a fundamental change that we be look to drive through immediately . the early conversation that I have when appoint as Home Secretary be on this issue with the College of Policing and with Lady Elish herself . one of those first meeting I have on my appointment be with Lady Elish about this report and the work that we could do to get ahead of the finding that she have put forward . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . he will be clear that the overwhelming number of Metropolitan police officer be brave individual who frequently put their life on the line to protect we all . that be key : such individual want to see the bad apple root out and , indeed , never come into the police service in the first place . however , there be two aspect to the problem of the Metropolitan police : they be the one force in the country that fail to meet their recruitment target in the past year ; and the Mayor have yet to provide the funding from his budget to enable the cultural change that we need to see in the Metropolitan police . do my right hon . friend agree that we have to ensure that standard do not slip in recruitment — they should be enforce — and that the funding need to be provide to change the culture of the Metropolitan police , as we would all like to see ? my hon . friend rightly draw attention to the fact that London ' s police and crime commissioner be the Mayor of London . he therefore have a duty to ensure that the police force over which he have political control change , and change in the way that have be highlight through the inquiry and in the part 1 finding of the inquiry . my hon . friend be also absolutely right that even though many of the force across the country be at the large they have ever be in term of number , that be sadly not true of the Metropolitan police , but there absolutely must be no sacrifice of quality of vet in order to hit the recruitment target that we have make it clear we expect the Metropolitan police to hit . we want the Metropolitan police to be a well recruit force , and the funding have be put on the table — it have not be fully utilise by the Mayor , but the funding have be put on the table — to enable the Met to be that . the force need to be populate with good , professional officer . that be the bar , the minimum standard we expect . we expect all leadership , uniformed and political , to abide by that philosophy . I put it on the record that my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Streatham ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , in whose constituency Sarah Everard live and from where she be abduct , then murder , be on an overseas visit with the Joint Committee on Human Rights and be very sorry not to be in the Chamber for this important statement . Sarah Everard ' s abduction and murder have a profound impact on woman across south London . like so many young people , she have move to London for work and make she home in our diverse community in Lambeth . she be one of we . but both before this appalling murder and afterwards , resident in south London and far afield who express concern about police behaviour that be misogynistic , racist or homophobic be tell repeatedly that this be just " a few bad apple " , an offensive phrase that diminish and deny people ' s experience and belie what have be show to be structural , cultural and widespread problem in policing . will the Secretary of State , in the light of the report ' s finding , apologise to everyone whose experience of unacceptable behaviour by police officer have be diminish and deny in that way ? have they be listen to when they report their experience , action could have be take that might have prevent Sarah ' s appalling and tragic murder from take place . as I say , from my first day in elect office , I have try to drive cultural change and an increase in professionalism , first in the Metropolitan police and , in this job , in police more widely . I will continue to do that for all the time that I have the power and authority to do so . there need to be — there must be — fundamental change . we must create an environment where woman and girl feel confident in , not fearful of police . that will remain my focus . I assure the hon . Lady and the House that I remain committed to that . I pay tribute to Lady Elish Angiolini for her thoughtful and consider report . the Home Affairs Committee take significant evidence on this issue , and her finding chime with what we hear about police standard and the culture within police . it be worth say that the vast majority of police officer join with good intention , and they serve their community well and with honour , and they serve the public well , but that core of rotten behaviour that she so well address in this report do exist . that be what we have to address , because at the heart of this issue be trust in police . we need to get back to a place where woman trust police officer and where they trust that when they report thing , those report will be listen to . do my right hon . friend have confidence not just in what the Metropolitan police be do , but in what force around the country be do — I have cumbrian woman who be concerned about their walk home at night — to look at the people in their force and ensure that they root out bad behaviour and get the culture right ? as I say in my response to the shadow Home Secretary , the simple truth be that there be no consistency across the country . some force deal with these issue well than other . we want to ensure that we increase the focus on such issue right across the country . the strategic policing requirement that I put forward be part of drive that attitudinal change right across the country . I demand that all police force treat this as a priority issue , take it as seriously as their work on counter - terrorism policing , for example , and that they learn from good practice , which be why I have speak extensively with the College of Policing about the issue . every woman everywhere in the country should have confidence in their police force . I would like to send my love to Sarah Everard and to the family of the 340 woman in this country who have be kill since the day she be kill . the Home Secretary say that the strategic police requirement be design to make this issue as important as terrorism , but which police force in the country with a counter - terrorism unit have the same number of officer in that unit as it do specialist in violence against woman and girl ? why do his Department spend £ 50 million last year on 6 , 700 Prevent referral to prevent people from end up in terrorism , but £ 18 million on 898 , 000 police report of domestic abuse ? we have 6 , 000 on one side and nearly 1 million on the other ; the Home Office spend £ 18 million on DV perpetrator and £ 50 million divert terrorism perpetrator , and say , " we be take it just as seriously . " to say , " we be do everything possible in flag intelligence " be just not true . currently , if someone be find by a family court in this country — a british court — to have rape their wife , rape one of their child or abuse their child , no police force in the country would be entitle to that information when do their vetting . will the Home Secretary commit to ensure that , if someone who want to become a police officer or a social worker have be find by a british court to have commit rape or child abuse , that information will all be make completely and utterly available ? the hon . Lady raise an incredibly important point about ensure that offence be take into consideration in vetting . that be part of the set of reform that we will look at drive through . she make a point about number of officer and budget ; I be not convince that that be necessarily the most useful metric of the seriousness with which we take thing . as I say , the strategic police requirement make clear my expectation . ultimately , we continue to increase the financial support for the policing of these issue . I will continue , as I have commit to the House , to ensure that police officer of all rank take this seriously , because without attitudinal change and a fundamental shift in philosophy , increase funding and change process — both of which be incredibly important ; I absolutely agree with she on that — will not have the effect that she and I both desire . I thank the Home Secretary for his statement . like many , I be shock by the murder of Sarah Everard three year ago . I praise the dignity of her family . I worry for woman walk home at night . I lose trust in the police then . to follow on from the challenge by the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , surely if an investigation into a police officer be launch after allegation of domestic abuse or sexual assault , that officer should be suspend straightaway . I have work with professional standard officer . something like that , which might superficially seem obvious , be often more complicated . we have put forward change in the threshold that trigger a suspension . of course , we expect investigate officer to move swiftly , as I say at the Dispatch Box on Second Reading of the Criminal Justice Bill . we want officer who be innocent to be vindicate quickly , and we want officer who be not to be remove from the force . that remain the philosophy that underpin our work on this . I thank the Home Secretary for his statement . like many other , I pay tribute to the family of Sarah Everard and the many other woman who have lose their life to violence by man . I think about the event back in March 2021 and take people back to the vigil that be organise on Clapham common , which be cover by my constituency and that of my hon . friend the Member for Streatham ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , who be not able to be here . woman want to come together to show solidarity . we all remember the scene of Patsy Stevenson be handcuff on the ground by two police officer . the Home Secretary have speak about woman have the confidence to come forward and report . he also mention the Metropolitan Police Authority , of which he be one of the found member . I serve as a London Assembly member and sit on the police and crime committee , which see report about Met police officer ’ action . do he not agree that for those woman to come forward , they need confidence in the police , and that require suspend at the first hurdle any police officer who have act inappropriately — no ifs , no but ? I respect the hon . Lady ' s experience on this issue . she will have hear the response that I give to the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) . there can not be universality in this ; response have to be base on the fact of individual case . successful challenge would be highly likely if suspension decision be not base on the individual circumstance of each case . however , we have make it clear that the threshold have historically be far too high . we have review that threshold and make it quick and easy for officer to be suspend . that go hand in hand with the change we be make , through the Criminal Justice Bill , to ensure that the disciplinary procedure operate more quickly so that officer who be find to have behave appropriately be return to duty quickly , and those who be find to have behave inappropriately be sanction quickly . that be incredibly important . the policing of the vigil for Sarah Everard be awful — it be awful . it take what be already an incredibly painful set of circumstance and make they bad . I have speak to police officer who recognise that . I will continue to speak about leadership , because that be not a process point ; it be a leadership point . it be about drive attitudinal change and a willingness to accept criticism from people who have feel victimise for far too long and be demand a change in the attitude of police around the country . the response to those incredibly legitimate concern , at a point of incredible sadness and tragedy , amplify what be already tragic circumstance . I will do everything I can to ensure that situation like that be never — never — repeat . I , too , pay tribute to the family of Sarah Everard . in Newcastle and across the country , her vile murder lead to an outpouring of grief and horror , but it do not , as the Home Secretary say , start a conversation about violence against woman — [ interruption . ] that be what he say . rather , it show that the voice , the pain and the fear of woman be be ignore . he say that he take violence against woman seriously ; his language and his action need to reflect that . will he speak specifically about recommendation 11 on information sharing between force so that predator like Couzens can not move from force to force ? this be not an issue for the Met alone . as I say in response to the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , my point about start a national conversation be that there be people who should have be think about this matter but be not . the terrible circumstance of the murder of Sarah Everard trigger a conversation within the Home Office and in police . my own experience long predate those terrible event . we must recognise , as a number of member from across the House have say , that something change when Sarah be murder . we must absolutely ensure that those terrible circumstance , which the inquiry demand that we see , be utilise to drive fundamental change . I commit to the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) that I will continue to drive that change and prioritise violence against woman and girl . it be a key priority , as I have communicate over and over again since the day I be appoint Home Secretary . I welcome the statement and the report , but it beggar belief — it be shocking beyond comprehension — that we can have serve police officer in this country who have be convict of multiple count of rape , kidnap , breach of non - molestation order and other serious offence . in his reply , the Home Secretary have say a number of time that this be not just an issue for woman and girl . I would argue that it should not be an issue for woman and girl : this be actually a man ' s problem . we need to really address male attitude towards woman and girl . there can be no place for misogyny , violence , warped view or predatory behaviour . this be a problem of certain section of the male population , so what more be the Government do to tackle those warped view of woman and girl by man ? the hon . Gentleman be right . as I say , this be an issue that affect the life of woman , but it should not be think of as a woman ' s issue — he be absolutely right that it be male perpetrator who need to change . I have always say that I do not want woman to have to change their behaviour ; I do not want woman to have to be in segregate train carriage , or to not be able to go out at night . we should be talk about not curtail the behaviour of woman , but a fundamental change in male behaviour . the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) raise a point that I fail to answer when reply to she , so I will take the opportunity to do so now , if the hon . Gentleman do not mind . information sharing between force be absolutely key . we have see that Couzens go from Kent to the Civil Nuclear Constabulary before come to the Metropolitan police . while there be failure at various point , his vetting failure in Kent should have be flag in other area , particularly as he go on to very serious piece of work with the Civil Nuclear Constabulary and then as a firearm officer in the Met . that vetting failure should have trigger much firm action , and information sharing be a part of that . I finish by repeat my point : the hon . member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) be absolutely right that this be about change male behaviour , not woman ' s behaviour . like other , my thought today be with Sarah Everard ' s family on what must be a very difficult day for they . Lady Angiolini ' s report be damn , but one of the sad thing about it be that many of the thing she mention — report not be take seriously , officer not be properly train , and failure of culture within police force — simply reinforce the fear that many of we have for the safety of ourselves and our daughter on our street . I welcome what the Secretary of State have say about the need for societal change and change in man ' s behaviour . do he agree that a vital step in make those change would be recognise misogyny as a hate crime , and move forward to ensure that woman feel well protect by the law ? what will drive raise confidence be woman see that their issue be take seriously during investigation , and improve the speed with which the police respond to those investigation . my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) make the point that non - contact sexual offence need to be take seriously so that intervention can happen much early , before great harm be perpetrate . I know that there have be call for misogyny to be make a hate crime . while I understand those call , I be yet to be convince that that would necessarily drive the change that we seek to drive . there be other direct thing that we should do , and indeed be do , to drive that change . we have increase the penalty for sexually relate criminality , as I say in my statement ; we be ensure that rapist be not release at the two - third point ; and we be ensure that where conviction involve sadism and suchlike , people serve whole - life tariff . we be make clear through the penalty for those crime that we take they incredibly seriously , but it have to be ongoing work . far to the response that the Home Secretary have just give to the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , I suspect that his word will come as news to the right hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) . I just do not understand : we pass a law in this place last June , the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 , which be design explicitly to recognise where woman be target on our street and give they additional protection . the suffragette teach we " deed not word " . that Act be not even mention by the Home Secretary ; I be not surprised , since he be not the only one who do not value it . as a London MP , I have write to the Met commissioner about this issue . the Met be refuse to recognise the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act . it say that it do not see that Act as part of tackle violence against woman or tackle misogyny , as the Home Secretary seem not to . in do so , it do not understand that woman be target on our street be misogyny , because it be happen to they . that be why they have no confidence . if the Home Secretary want to rebuild that confidence , will he ask the Met to abide by the law that this place have pass to protect woman , and will he get on and implement that piece of legislation ? all he need to do be sign the statutory instrument . that be one good thing that could come out of today : if the Home Secretary recognise that woman do not feel safe on our street and that it be not their problem to fix , maybe he , as the man in charge , will do something about it . I recognise the frustration that the hon . Lady express , and I can only restate my personal commitment . with regard to the Metropolitan police ' s implementation of decision make by this House , she should recognise that that be a decision for the political head of police in London , the Labour Mayor of London . I be more than happy to take this matter up with he , if she have not already do so . Dame Angiolini ' s find that there be nothing to stop another Wayne Couzens operate in plain sight worry I , because he have be operate in plain sight since 2002 . the Home Secretary have use many word today , which he will be hold to : " systemic issue in police " , " trust in policing " , " attitudinal change be need " , " change be need " . action speak louder than word , Home Secretary . the police vetting , standard and misconduct system need to be look at now , so will he meet I to discuss the Police ( Declaration ) Bill , which I introduce as a ten - minute rule Bill only a few week ago , and how a register of membership of secret society should be publicly available ? we need to rebuild trust in our police . I will ensure that either I or one of the Ministers in the Department get the detail of the point that the hon . Lady have bring forward . I be more than happy to be hold accountable for the word I have say at the Dispatch Box and the word I have say throughout my political career on this issue , because I be not go to lose focus on it . I can assure the hon . Lady and the House of that . as I have say , for the whole time that I have authority and jurisdiction over these area , I will maintain this issue as a priority and demand that other — whether in uniform or out of uniform , operational police officer or those in the political leadership of police force — take it as seriously as it should be take . it be totally unacceptable that woman and girl be not able to live their life fully in our society because of fear , not only of criminality but of a lack of response from police when these issue be bring to light . security of elect Representatives with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the security of elect representative . this House bring together our nation . People from every part of the United Kingdom and from every background be represent here to debate , to argue , to challenge and to find the good course for our country to take . that be the way it should be , because this House do not belong to any one community or interest group ; it belong to every citizen from every corner of the kingdom . the decision we take affect not just the life of our friend , our neighbour and our community , but every community , and every community ' s voice — even those we disagree with — must be properly represent . that principle be at the heart of who we be as a country and as a democracy . our democracy work only if those who elect we be free to choose the individual they wish , and if that individual — the one they have choose — have the freedom to say what they think . in recent day , we have see those principle waver , and the strain of rise community tension be begin to show . instead of debate and accountability , we have see intimidation and threat . member of this House have tell I that they feel they have to vote a certain way not because it be the right thing for their community or even because the majority in their community wish it , but because a few — a threatening few — have make their voice hear , and make they fear for their safety and the safety of their family . even this House — the House that have persevere through fire and through war — have be pressure into change the way we debate . we all understand why . the assassination of our friend Jo Cox and Sir David Amess have affect we all . we know that there be extremist out there , and the truth be clear : the danger be real . we also know that bend to the threat of violence and intimidation be wrong . it do not just betray those who send we ; it encourage those who , through we , be bully they . last Wednesday , demonstrator threaten to force Parliament to " lock its door " . what these thug be actually ask we to do be to put our constituent second , and to bow to those who be shout loudest . that be more than a threat to we . it be a threat to the very democratic principle and value that define who we be as a country . let I be absolutely clear : they must fail . if we be to stumble or to succumb to these pressure , we would not just see this House diminish ; our community across the country would suffer . some thing be more important than any of we as individual . the pressure have always exist , but since the 7 October attack on Israel , they have spike , along with a dramatic rise in antisemitism , accompany by demonstration that have cause profound distress and fear in the jewish community and beyond . we be see a darkness return to our street . british Muslims also face threat . islamist extremist call other Muslims apostate unless they be willing to destroy the society that have give everyone , include the many expression of Islam practise here today , the freedom to worship as they choose . far - right extremist be join they in claim that Islam have no place in Britain . both claim that Britain be a divided nation , not a United Kingdom . both be wrong . this Government reject that agenda of isolation and fear . we will ensure that all voice in our democracy be hear . we be ensure that those who have be elect to serve their community be able to do so without fear . that be why we be commit an additional £ 31 million to protect the democratic process and our elect representative . this funding will primarily support mp , councillor , police and crime commissioner and Mayors . the Operation Bridger network , which already provide police support to mps , will be expand so that all elect representative and candidate have a dedicated , name police officer to contact on security matter , where need . force around the country will be able to draw on a new fund to deliver additional patrol , so they will be well able to respond to heighten community tension . work closely with Parliament and the police , we will provide access to private security for Members who face the high risk . yesterday , the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary , the Policing Minister and I meet senior police leader to discuss these issue . together , the Home Office , the National Police Chiefs ' Council , the Association of Police and Crime Commissioners and the College of Policing , with input from the Crown Prosecution Service , have agree a new defend democracy police protocol . it contain seven key commitment to implement minimum standard of police at event , to prevent intimidatory protest at home , and to ensure protest at party office , town hall , Parliaments or other democratic venue do not inhibit the democratic process . pcc and chief constable have be ask to report back on the implementation of these measure by April . before I finish , may I pay tribute to our law enforcement and intelligence agency , which keep we safe at all time ? this additional funding will help they support we in undertake our democratic duty . I take the safety and security of all member of this House extremely seriously , as I know do you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and Mr Speaker . the truth be that there be some thing that transcend political dividing line . there be principle that be so fundamental — so sacred , even — that we must all of we guard they against all threat , regardless of party allegiance . defend our democracy be at the core of who we be as a nation . it be the live expression of the concept of freedom of thought and freedom of speech . as we legislate and debate , as we argue and criticise , we must be robust . we must continue to test idea and each other to serve the british people well . we must challenge each other , and remember that this be not just about we . we be only the temporary guardian of liberty that we have inherit . today , it be our turn to defend they . this be our watch , and it be for we to rise above the fray and to say , with total clarity , that we will not be cow , we will not be silence and we will not be bully . the people we be privileged to represent deserve nothing less . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his statement and for advance sight of it . I join he in express our gratitude to all those who work to keep we safe . our democracy be strong , but we can never stand for threat or attempt to intimidate . we can not and will not allow a minority to pose security threat , or allow racial hatred to ever go unchallenged or to undermine our democracy . let I say to the Minister at the outset that we welcome the £ 31 million of additional funding . we recognise the extremely difficult situation face by member of this House , with all of we the target of intimidation and threat of violence , especially woman . we must not forget that that target also extend to local councillor , Mayors , police and crime commissioner , member of a devolved Parliament and an Assembly , and of course candidate . nobody in this House need any reminding of the terrible price we have pay in recent year and the loss of much - love colleague . we must ensure that this additional resource be focus in the right place and at the right time , and that long - term arrangement be in place to provide those who step forward to serve as elect representative and their family with the reassurance they deserve to do their vital work without fear or favour . those arrangement must also ensure that other be not dissuade from step forward to serve , because the threat be undermine the core principle of our representative democracy . our country must return to a state of affair where the only fear that politician ever feel be from the ballot box . although we absolutely respect the fundamental freedom to legitimate peaceful protest — it be a core democratic right — if that freedom be use to intimidate , harass or harm mp and other representative , include outside their home , safeguard must be put in place to protect they and our wide democratic system . such protective measure be now essential , but we also need to look at the underlie cause . what be it about our society that have change that allow some to think that they can intimidate and threaten mp and other elect representative with impunity ? what be the root of this poison ? it be hard not to see a connection between the increasingly polarised and acrimonious debate that have flourish online , particularly on social medium , and the great threat of physical harm in the real world . we also need to focus on the deep root of division that fuel this danger , not least by exercise good judgment in what we say . word have consequence . I would be grateful if the Minister answer a few question . be the £ 31 million a one - off uplift , or will it be make available on a recur basis ? how do that relate to Scotland and Northern Ireland ? in this general election year , all member stand for re - election will become candidate again for the short campaign . can he give an assurance that all who need additional protection will continue to get it ? will he also give an assurance that work be under way to ensure that Operation Bridger be configure and resource to provide appropriate support locally , not least to our councillor ? recent protest , alongside threat to and intimidation of politician , have also raise the issue of what be define as hateful extremism . the Government have not yet bring forward a definition , but that would be helpful in counter threat and intimidation . can the Minister say when the Government or the Levelling up Secretary will bring forward a definition , and outline when the Government will bring forward an update counter - extremism strategy ? the defend democracy taskforce set up by the Security Minister in November 2022 be an important operational mechanism for co - ordinating activity across Government to protect and bolster our democratic system and institution . give the proximity to the general election , perhaps now be the time to look at how we can bring this work together on a cross - party basis . we all have a share interest in ensure that election can be contest in a way that not just defend but strengthen our democracy . protect our democracy and those who serve as elect representative be mission critical . we must ensure that all who step forward to serve as democratically elect politician be properly protect , and that the sovereignty of our democratic process be not undermine . we on this side of the House will work with the Minister and the Government to do everything we can to make sure that be the case . may I say how pleased I be to be work with my very good friend the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , who I have know for a lot long than either of we have be in this place ? the question he ask be important , and the tone in which he approach this subject be even more so , and I be hugely grateful for the spirit of co - operation with which he have approach not just today ' s statement but the work he have put in before today , and indeed with which the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) approach it before he . turn to the question , the £ 31 million be this year ' s allocation , but there be consequence that will flow into other year . I will not give the hon . Gentleman a figure because that be variable ; as he will appreciate , we be almost through the current financial year , and the consequence will depend on what be draw down and what be require . the hon . Gentleman ' s question about Scotland and Northern Ireland be of course entirely valid . let I be clear : the security of the democratic process in the United Kingdom be not a devolved matter ; it be down to this Government , and it be my responsibility and this Government ' s responsibility to make sure that election in the United Kingdom be free and fair . of course , we must have a huge amount of co - operation with other Parliaments and government inside the United Kingdom ; with , in some case , return officer and council ; and with Ministers in Holyrood — and Stormont , now that it have , thank God , return to operate . this area be a sovereign responsibility , for the simple reason that it be about the national security of the United Kingdom . the hon . Gentleman raise an important point about parliamentary candidate . he be right that when the election be call , there will be no more mp , and any right and privilege that we enjoy as member of this House will immediately cease . the Government be look at way of maintain the security requirement necessary to ensure that those who wish to stand as candidate again can do so , free from fear and from the threat of violence . the hon . Gentleman ' s question about counter - extremism be important , and I would like first to pay tribute to William Shawcross for his work on update the Prevent review , and to Robin Simcox , whose work on the counter - extremism strategy have be so important . this be about counter extremism in many different form . I mention that we must be clear that islamist violence and threat be primarily a threat to the muslim community in the United Kingdom . the number of friend of mine in the muslim community whom some have try to silence , because my friend ' version of Islam do not tie in with that of thug and loudmouth who claim to speak on behalf of other , be remarkable . we must champion all voice in this country , and that include all muslim voice — there isn ' t a single one ; there be many . as for the definition , there be an exist definition , as the hon . Gentleman be aware , and work be ongoing to see how that could or should be update . I be afraid that I do not have an update for he now , but I will certainly bring one forward as soon as I have it . as for the cross - party nature of the defend democracy taskforce , the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , and I be look at it now , although I think he will be the first to admit that the work have be very cross - party to date . I call the Father of the House , Sir Peter Bottomley . it have be an honour to listen both to the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , and my right hon . friend the Minister . I stand with three shield behind I : one for Airey Neave , assassinate in 1979 ; one for Robert Bradford , kill in his constituency surgery ; and one for Ian Gow , who be blow up a week after the IRA kill Sister Catherine Dunne , a Roman Catholic Sister of Mercy , by mistake , and they think , rightly , that by kill Ian Gow they would wipe that atrocity off the news . there be also other shield behind the Speaker ' s Chair . on average , one MP be kill every seven year . we be not the only one expose to risk ; there be also the psychiatric social worker , the emergency blue - light responder , people fish at sea , those work in a permanent way on the railway , and the like — so we should not think that we be the only people who need to have our safety look at . I hope the police will understand that those who need the most protection should get the most protection , and those of we who be not at much risk should not get too much money or attention give to we . there should be a risk - base analysis , so more be give to those who often speak up bravely , or those who , often because they be woman or from ethnic minority , get more attention from the thug and extremist than be give to someone like I . our constituent will understand , too , that candidate stand for election with we , who get the same attention as we , should get the same kind of protection as we . I thank the Father of the House for his kind word . he be absolutely right . I remember hear as a child about the murder of Airey Neave , and it mark I then , and it mark I now , that somebody with such a record of service to our country during the second world war , when he escape from Colditz , and who shape one of our great political party , have their life end by the brutality and violence of a small group of murderous individual whose agenda be not even share by the majority in their own community , let alone the majority in the country . that be one of the most striking example of anti - democratic force in our country win ; they silence a hero who have serve our country for many decade . I appreciate very much my hon . friend ' s comment . I hope right hon . and hon . member will forgive I , but I will not go into the detail of for whom and how security allocation will be make . if member require a private briefing on how that be achieve , I be sure that I can arrange something , but the reality be that we will focus on those most at risk , to ensure that those who have credible threat against they be support . my hon . friend the Father of the House highlight sad case . a colleague of ours who have a seat in this House — I hope she will be return at the next election — have to wear a stab vest to constituency surgery . she be threaten by a nationalist movement in her seat . supporter of her have be silence by threat of violence and intimidation . she rightly raise with I this morning the issue of husting ; her opponent will call she any number of name if she fail to attend they . the reality be that the threat against she be credible and real . we be work with the police to make sure that they be mitigate , so that she can carry out her responsibility , not just to herself , but to constituent who may or may not wish to send she here . we must give they the chance to choose , and not allow a few threaten individual to prevent her elector have that choice . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . when David Amess be murder , one of the hard thing I have ever have to do be explain it to my child before they see it on the news , or before one of their friend speak to they about it . they be too young when Jo Cox be murder for I to have that conversation with they . it be the reality of life that this sit on our shoulder as mps . last time I have to give a statement to the police about somebody ' s behaviour , I ask to do it at the police station , rather than my house , so that my child would not be aware that I be give a statement to the police . the Minister talk about the importance of democratic representation , and it be important . so be the measure that he have put in place , but it be also important to realise that some people do not stand for Parliament because of the fear . they do not even get to the point of be candidate , because they be so scared about the risk , not just of serious threat or death , but of the abuse that people receive as a result of be involve in the democratic process . I have a couple of question for the Minister . one be about the assessment of the number and severity of threat to mps from far - right extremist , versus islamic extremist . one of my colleague ask I to raise that with he . if the Minister have any information on the number , that would be helpful . I welcome the focus on candidate and councillor , and I appreciate his comment on policing of this issue be reserve , but if he expect Police Scotland to carry out some of this work , there need to be fund for that . how he intend to ensure that there be — whether through the Scottish Parliament or not — be clearly for he , but can he give some reassurance that the force expect to carry out that work will be fund appropriately , either from the centre or from the devolve Parliaments ? may I likewise thank the hon . Lady for the approach that she and many member of her party have take ? she be right about Police Scotland funding . any extra requirement , and the Op Bridger network , which apply , as she know , across the whole United Kingdom , will be fund centrally to ensure that member of this House get the same support . Police Scotland will have access to the same funding as other force across the United Kingdom . the hon . Lady be absolutely right about candidate . the message have to be clear from we . we have see a level of threat of violence towards member of this House and elect individual , include various Mayors , across the United Kingdom in recent year , but this job be still a huge privilege . we need to put it clearly : many of we realise the privilege of serve our constituent , and have our voice hear here and , as a result , around the world . that be a huge privilege and a rare honour for anyone to achieve , and it be worth strive for . it be one of the good way that any of we , whatever our opinion , can serve our community and help to make this country and , I hope , our world a well place . it be true that there be threat , and we be organise , as the hon . Lady recognise , extremely carefully to mitigate and reduce they , so that anybody can stand for election free from fear . I urge people who feel that they have something to offer our country to put themselves forward , to test their idea in debate and at election , and to come and serve our country here on the green Benches . on the hon . Lady ' s question about balance , if she will forgive I , I will not go into the detail , but I can assure she that I be not particularly bother whether someone ' s fascism come from some weird form of nationalist extremism , or religious extremism , or political extremism of any kind — I don ' t really care . if you threaten member of this House , threaten democracy and threaten the british people , we will go after you . we will get you , and you will be detain . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that this be about defend democracy , but I be very concerned when we start talk about risk . the shadow spokesman , the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) speak about have to have the right protection in the right place at the right time . we know that woman , people of colour and LGBTQ Members will be at most risk , but none of we could have predict that a man who be most famous for campaign to make Southend a city , and Jo Cox , who speak in her maiden speech about our have more in common , would be the individual target . I urge some caution , particularly when it come to husting and to the involvement of weird conspiracy theorist in politic who openly incite division , whether out on the street , in our constituency surgery or in this House . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] we need to make sure that we have protection against they as well . there be the question . my right hon . friend have make her point extremely clear , and it be one I would support . may I echo the comment of the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) ? I do not think this be a partisan issue , and it be important to recognise that in the culture we now have , it be not about the issue either . the Minister talk about recent event , but many of we have be live with this problem for year , particularly my colleague who be woman of colour . may I ask the Minister two specific question , which I ask as somebody who do not want to live in a gild cage ? I want to go out and debate with people . I enjoy robust discussion , as he know . I enjoy talk to my constituent , and I do not want to be ask to have a travel plan to go to my local park or my local pub or to be cut off from the people I be privileged to serve . at the moment , the approach we be take suggest that it be all about the individual . I be tell by the police that because I be a Back Bencher , my family be not cover , yet my family have be persistently target by people try to intimidate I , from both left and right . can he clarify whether there will be an understanding in the protection offer about our family in the analysis of risk ? many of the people be put off be not people who look like the people here . secondly , the Minister know I be concerned about 527 group — the organisation that often promote violence and hatred and incite campaigning which be not register as charity and perhaps not abide by the law on imprint that many of we would recognise , yet increasingly part of british politic . many of we have be warn for several year about these organisation . will he now take that threat seriously , because it be undermine democracy ? I thank the hon . Lady . may I be clear that her family , if threaten , be cover ? there be no question about that . the programme be base on the threat face , not what position the hon . Lady may or may not hold in her own party ; that be not one of the consideration . may I also be clear that this £ 31 million be additional ? it do not replace or undermine the work already ongoing in various way . the hon . Lady will understand that all of we — every citizen of the United Kingdom — be cover by security infrastructure that include everything from cyber - protection to intelligence agency and staff who be help we to stay safe . many of the action take will come from warning or investigation that have nothing to do with the area that I have just cover . what I be just talk about be the additional security requirement for protect our democracy from today ' s threat . as to her point about 527 group , I be aware of that — she have raise it with I — and I take it very seriously . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . he have make it clear that this be not only about security and policing and that we need to look for new way to tackle what be fuel anti - democratic abuse , which many hon . and right hon . member be face in their day - to - day work . too often , that culture be develop online . will he consider my call for a Committee of this House to monitor the effectiveness of the Online Safety Act 2023 and to make recommendation to Government on way that we can tackle this issue and many other that start online ? surely we need to tackle that cultural change as well as the important issue that he have raise . my right hon . friend have raise many interesting point about the Online Safety Act over recent month , and indeed year . as it have just pass and be only begin to come into force , I hope she will forgive I for not make any commitment immediately . however , her point be certainly important , and I will look at they . I thank the Minister for his statement . if I hear correctly , he say that the Government have not quite get a definition of anti - muslim hate . I wonder if that could urgently be rectify . the post of independent adviser on Islamophobia have be vacant for over a year , but the Government be in desperate need of one . I thank hon . member for acknowledge the hate crime against woman of colour . may I just mention my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) , who have have an obscene amount of hate level at she , and my hon . friend the Member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) , the first hijab - wear MP ? the abuse they have face be terrible . MI5 and the Intelligence and Security Committee have state that extreme right - wing terrorism be sadly here to stay , with the threat fuel in part by racism . MI5 have say that teenager as young as 13 be join in extremist activity , often online . last week , the Minister in the other place reveal that the Government be " not intend to publish a hate crime strategy " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 21 February 2024 ; Vol . 836 , c . 599 . ] despite the last one be four year out of date . with the Community Security Trust report state that there have be a rise in antisemitic abuse and a 300 % rise in Islamophobia , why be the Government abandon their work on hate crime ? I thank the hon . Lady for the question . we be not abandon our work on hate crime . may I just cover some of those issue in order ? first , I be talk about a definition of extremism , not of anti - muslim hate , in response to the question from the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) . the Government be absolutely clear that racism in all its form , include anti - muslim hatred , be absolutely wrong , and there be no question about that . the only area of discussion have to be about how we deal with it , not whether we recognise it . we do recognise it . as the hon . Lady recognise , hate crime in this country be sadly rise , and there be individual who have face the force of that from various different area . very sadly , many in the muslim community , as she be aware , feel that hatred not from outside the community but from within it — from those who be try to preach an extremist message of Islam that be not accept within the muslim community , let alone in other part of the country . we must be absolutely clear that this country protect someone ' s status for who they be and not for what they happen to believe . there be freedom of belief and freedom of religious expression , which also mean the freedom not to believe or to believe differently from one ' s family or community . those thing be also protect . I be grateful for the support that I have have from Police Scotland , and it be a matter of considerable regret to I that officer have have to attend my recent surgery , as well as those of my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) . I be conscious that the last time I speak in Parliament on police issue be to highlight the lack of police in the south of Scotland , where they operate with minimum number . my concern be that the police attend demonstration and the event I be involve in be displace from attend and support the constituent for whom I be here to speak . I fully agree with everything the Minister say , but will he assure we that the deployment of resource to protect we and protect democracy do not displace resource from protect our constituent , the very people we be here to serve ? I thank my right hon . friend for his comment . it will surprise nobody in the House that he quite correctly raise the fact that we must not put ourselves above our constituent . that be not what the statement be about . we be make sure that our constituent ' voice be defend and that their value , their expression and the choice they make be able to stand . that be all we be do . he be absolutely right that we would not take away from the protection of our wide society to protect those elect to serve it — what we be do be part of the same thing . as my right hon . friend know , we be also increase police number . sadly , in Scotland , that have not yet follow . I thank the Minister for his statement and for the letter he send to Members . I have be grateful to get clarity from the Dispatch Box in relation to myself as a Scottish MP . it would be nice to get a letter send to all scottish mp that appreciate the complexity , because the seven point of the defend democracy protocol continually mention England and Wales , the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the College of Policing . I be sure that all the require engagement and connection be in place , but such a letter would give we an increase degree of confidence . my question be on two thing . the Minister say he be look at what can be provide during the election period , when we be no long mp . from a risk assessment perspective , my ask be that social medium monitoring continue — I hope that would be one of the more cost - effective measure — so that we can see risk that we be not expect . on the point make by the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , I do not want to live in a gilded cage either . I also associate myself with the remark make by the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) : we need to ensure that we be not prevent mp from be close to their constituent while tackle the root problem . I would be grateful for the Minister give we an update on that . I thank the hon . Lady for the feedback on that letter . I will ensure that that clarity be give . this statement absolutely apply to whole of the United Kingdom , as I have say , but I will ensure that I clarify that . social medium monitoring will not end at the election . indeed , it be provide not just by the House , but , as the hon . Lady know , by other element of the Government . as to the wide challenge , this be an area where we be continue to work . I would appreciate — this be an unusual and perhaps reckless thing to say at the Dispatch Box — feedback from all member on the effect they see of these policy operate in their constituency . if the security service be advise that this £ 30 million be need , I welcome that if it keep our member safe . the Minister have refer to the national demonstration . may I say , as someone who have have to learn lesson over the year about the nature of statement I have make , that we must be careful about how we use word in relation to those demonstration ? I have be on virtually every one of they , and , just as the police report to the Home Affairs Committee , they have be overwhelmingly peaceful . the people I have walk with be member of the jewish community . where sign — they have be appal — have be identify , the police , work with the steward of those demonstration , have deal with they effectively and , yes , prosecute people . I be pleased with that . we must be careful in our language , because I would not want distort language to lead to conclusion such as that we should restrict the right to protest . we should be proud of the people of our country because , as a result of their concern about human suffering , they have come out on to the street in such large number to urge that that suffering be end . I be enormously proud of the british people . I have always be proud to be british and I will remain so until the day I die . this be the most remarkable country . my grandfather come here just over 100 year ago as a student . his family follow , flee the persecution and murder that sadly engulf Europe for those horrific year of fascism . this country have give protection , security and safety not just to I but to million like I . not only have it enable we to prosper and thrive , but it have afford I the huge honour of represent the community that I love , and have allow I to speak on behalf of his Majesty as his Minister here at the Dispatch Box . this be an amazing country , and I be deeply proud to serve it . let I touch on some of those protest . I be very measured in my language , and I be careful in the way that I put it because many good people protest on every side of every debate . there be always people who rightly raise concern about aspect of foreign policy over which we may or may not have influence . many of we have raise personal concern about the horrific treatment of over 100 hostage who be still hold , even now , in tunnel by a terrorist group who murder their family in a surprise attack 120 or 150 day ago . many of we have show our horror at that . other , sadly , have choose to march with some who have show sign of hate and racism . other have choose to stay silent when they have see those sign . other , completely by chance , find themselves photograph in front of sign of the deep , most hateful antisemitism that we have see on our street since the Cable Street marche of almost a century ago . be it not a strange quirk of fate how the same people be accidentally photograph in front of the same sign on a regular basis ? what poor , poor luck they must have . I thank the Minister for his statement which , rightly , look at the security of elect representative . he refer to husting ; in practice , how do he feel that would work ? think back to my election in 2019 , there be nine husting in my constituency alone . I manage to go to eight ; I be nearly keel over by the ninth . they will be happen right across the country , and rightly so , because our constituent must be able to come to we and ask what our policy be . I also want to mention the staff member who support we . none of we would do our job as elect representative — include councillor , elect Mayors and mps — without the support of our staff . will there be any support for staff member ? I be sure that no one in this House would judge the hon . Lady for miss one husting out of nine . we be all in the process of training and strengthen up to get ready for whatever come . she be absolutely right about staff member . many of they will be affect in different way . she will understand that I will not prescribe a single policy for husting or for staff member because her seat — wonderful as it be — be not the same as mine or those of other hon . member . everyone ' s seat be different and everyone ' s staff work in differently way , quite rightly , to serve their community . it would not be right for I to prescribe that . however , the funding be available to the police — for she , it be the Metropolitan police — in order to support she in whatever way be most appropriate . it will require some judgment and perhaps some wide information and additional support . if change be require , I would be grateful if she could let I know . I serve on the House of Commons Commission for three year , with you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know that the security of Members of Parliament be essential for this House . last week , precedent and convention be turn on their head , because concern be express about the safety of some member . there be a real sense that because we do that , mob rule have somehow prevail . if that be the case , it will only encourage those who seek to disrupt our proceeding . can the Minister assure I and the rest of the House that , although security of Members be essential and paramount , we will never again change the democratic practice of this House to satisfy the concern and demand of a mob ? I thank the hon . member for his comment . they remind I of those famous word of Speaker Lenthall : " I have neither eye to see nor voice to speak , save that as give to I by this House " , in answer to King Charles — an early , less beloved sovereign of this Kingdom . when he speak , he be rightly reject all force except that of the sovereignty of the british people , who have choose their representation here , to have any voice in this place . in reject that outside force , he be reject the King . now , thank God , we have a wonderful king whose voice be only munificence and light . we need to reject the mob . it be an outside power and it be unacceptable that it should have a voice in here . that silence the legitimate voice of our constituent and our country , and it must never be tolerate . I have not speak about my own personal security before , and I hope it will become apparent to the Minister why I need to do so today . I have be subject to serious threat , include death threat . I have be offer police support and protection . at one stage , we have to ensure that our teenage daughter be physically escort to and from sixth form college , and she be not allow off campus at break time . I have one live police investigation into harassment , one pende Crown court case into death threat , and I have physical security at my house , some of which I really do not want . the security of MPs and their family be a serious matter , and it be not appropriate for it to become a political football . the Minister will therefore understand , I hope , my gut - wrench anxiety and dismay when Tameside Conservative Councillor Liam Billington seek to politicise the physical measure at my house . indeed , that be amplify by his Tory party chairman on social medium . that be not acceptable . I hope that it do not happen to any other Member of this House . let I be very clear . security for a Member , whether at home , police protection or whatever it happen to be , be not a luxury or a benefit . it be a burden and an intrusion into their personal life that be essential for the conduct of our democracy in our country . it be not something that any of we would choose — I certainly would not . it be deeply disturbing that anyone ' s child should be target or threaten , and I hope the whole House will be clear and speak as one that no one should ever be criticise for have security and protection . I be sure that other outside will have hear that . mp must be safe to express their view . as we have hear from hon . member on both side , they face real threat , intimidation and abuse . that must be condemn at all time . but at a time of heightened tension , the Prime Minister ' s talk of mob rule and some of the Minister ' s comment today in relation to legitimate , peaceful protest , dangerously distort those event for political reason , and detract from real risk . this morning , the Met ' s former chief super - intendent , Dal Babu , make similar comment when he challenge unhelpful language , say that there be a level of frustration , but we be in a democracy and the overwhelming majority of people at protest be peaceful . do we not have a duty , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say , to speak very carefully , address real concern and not abuse event in that way ? we must protect mps , but we must also ensure that the public ' s right to peaceful protest be protect . I be slightly surprised by the hon . Lady ' s comment . my prime duty to this House , and to those who elect I to serve they here , be to be honest . there be no point in lie to they or deceive you , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be absolutely no point in spread untruth , lead to an outcome that would not serve we well . all I have do today be speak truthfully about the nature of the protest we have see and repeat the word of some of those who organise those protest : that they would have we lock our door , that they would close this Parliament , that they would silence our voice and that they would end our democratic process . that be what they be advocate . if she do not like the truth , maybe she should stop support they . Backbench Business International Women ' s day : language in Politics I beg to move , that this House have consider the use of language in politic in light of International Women ' s day ; agree that the respectful use of language be an important feature of a strong and inclusive democracy ; and call on all parliamentary candidate to pledge that respectful language will be use at all time in the upcoming General Election campaigning period . I would like to start the debate , on behalf of member of the all - party parliamentary group on woman in Parliament , by say thank you . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate , which we should never take for grant give the pressure to hold debate in the Chamber , and I thank the Fawcett Society , which provide the secretariat to the APPG . like all APPGs , our be open to all Members and be cross - party . there be more that unite we than divide we when it come to woman in politic and particularly to woman who stand for elect office . let we start the debate to mark International Women ' s Day , which I have to remember be a national holiday around Europe , by celebrate the woman who make our community great . like everybody else I have a long list I could recite , but I would just like to highlight Dr Avideah Nejad , a consultant gynaecologist at Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , who take the time last Friday , along with Dr Dominic Kelly , to speak to student at my local sixth - form college about our brand new hospital and the work she do to inspire another generation of young people to take up medicine . we need more people like that in our community . the APPG want this debate to be more than a celebration . we want to continue our work to ensure that the amazing woman on these Benches and in our community see elect office as a way they can contribute to the future of our country . woman be now more likely than their male counterpart to come out of the good university with the good degree . they make up the majority of solicitor and the majority of student study medicine , so why have the House of Commons not see the same leap as other sector when it come to attract woman into our midst ? there be still two man elect to this place for every one woman . there be many reason for that and I remind colleague of the excellent research the APPG launch in September , but today ' s debate invite we to focus on one element . at the moment , as we hear in the statement today , too many woman reject the idea of stand for election because of the abuse they face , in particular the abusive language use on social medium . abuse affect all of we , but it be disproportionately aim at woman and be more likely to put woman off from stand for election . that be not to say that abusive language be acceptable to anyone . there be far more that online media platform could and should be do to stop online bullying and abuse among all their user , but the evidence be that it disproportionately negatively impact woman . that pose a huge risk to the retention of woman in this place and , in turn , to democratic representation . over nine in 10 woman mp who take part in the research report that online abuse or harassment negatively impact how they feel about be an MP , compare with seven in 10 man — still not a great figure . similarly , all the black and minoritise mp who take part in the survey report that they be negatively impact by online abuse . the nature of the abuse be describe as misogynistic and racist , with it take a considerable toll not only on they but their family . lot have be do to recognise the problem . I pay particular tribute to Mr Speaker and his team in Parliament for the work they do in monitoring and act on online abuse against Members , and ensure increase level of support be in place , as we hear in the statement by the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) a few moment ago , so that mp have support to live their day - to - day life as they want to , and not in an isolated ivory tower . abusive and threaten language be spill over into real - life behaviour . this be something I and other raise in the debate on the Online Safety Bill . politician be not delicate flower , but there can be few people who would be unaffected by have two work colleague murder in the last eight year . David and Jo be just go about their work as constituency mp . we have see the shift to protester feel a legitimate right to camp outside mps ' home , and maybe not just outside , and to attempt to intimidate mp through their child , partner , husband or wife — something I have experience myself . the additional security be essential , but it will not solve the problem . we have to challenge and change the culture of online abuse , and the online abuse that be now spill offline , too . free speech and its protection be often cite as a reason why we should not be regulate the online environment . free speech be a crucial part of our democracy . the passing of the Online Safety Act 2023 into law demonstrate that the Government understand there be a line to tread between free speech and protection . but free speech be not the only thing we must safeguard . speak freely be just as important . too many woman in particular fear organise attack if they speak up and speak freely on the issue that matter to they . in research , three quarter of woman MPs say they do not speak up on certain issue because of the abusive environment online . the same go for man ; the number who be impact be much small — around half — but that be still something we should be concern about . the ability of this place to speak freely be be curtail . there be another aspect to this . parliamentary privilege and the parliamentary language we use in this place mean we have an obligation to choose our word carefully . People who watch our debate note that every time . but be we as careful outside the Chamber ? be political campaigning be shape to fit the medium of social medium : polarise , binary , simplistic , and chase the algorithm first and foremost at the expense of nuanced debate ? there be serious implication for our democracy if we allow our politic to be shape by — I be afraid — a mob mentality that can thrive in the online world . the Online Safety Act can only be the start . I reiterate my call , which I mention in early proceeding , for a Select Committee for online safety to keep the issue under constant review . in advance of the debate , I receive a note from the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards , who be contact by thousand of member of the public every year with their view on parliamentary standard . the language we choose to use matter in maintain a culture of respect in political debate . robust debate be not the same as personal intimidation and abuse . be refer to your opponent as " scum " part of free speech and a robust debate , or be it abusive political campaigning ? we all need to think carefully about that . the right hon . Lady have mention online platform and a form of responsibility , but do she believe that Parliament itself should take more responsibility for the barrier that woman be face , or cite as their reason for not enter Parliament , and for the language that we use here ? what might that responsibility look like ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , and for her support for the all - party parliamentary group . try to make this a place that people want to come to should be a cross - party effort , along with tackle social medium abuse and not only hold online platform to account , but ensure that they take down abusive image and message incite violence against Members of Parliament . that should be do much more quickly than it have be in the experience of many member . there be so much more , over and above social medium , that we need to change if we want more woman to be willing to come here . although half the population of our country be female , very few woman want to stand for election , for reason include some that I have mention . this debate be important for a number of reason . the language that we use in everyday life can be very careless , and be become increasingly so in this place . I wonder whether the right hon . Lady worry , as I do , about the fact that during the current Parliament in particular there have be more focus on parliamentarian ' behaviour , and while some of it have to be call out , there have be occasion when an issue have be raise and then — if I may use a football phrase — member have tackle the player rather than the ball : it have be about the person rather than the issue . should we not be much more aware of not just the language that we use but how we direct that language ? should we not maintain a direction towards issue rather than people ? the hon . Lady be entirely right . in fact , I have include that analogy in my speech , but I take it out for the sake of time . I see that you be look at I intently , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I know that a great many member want to take part in the debate . as the hon . Lady say , there be a discussion to be have about language versus behaviour . we have tool such as a code of conduct and the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards , but not all of they enable we to examine everything we do as member of Parliament . perhaps it be time for we to look at the language that member use outside as well as inside the Chamber . it be our job to identify problem and then find the solution . as well as call again for the monitoring of the effectiveness of the online safety law , today I be pleased to be launch , along with colleague in the all - party parliamentary group , a woman in Parliament pledge , which all mp and candidate can support , to take a zero - tolerance approach to misogyny , include racist misogyny , and all other form of hate and discrimination in campaigning and in conduct . back Benchers be take this initiative to drive a change in culture , and I hope that right hon . and hon . member will sign up to it . our APPG be also call on the Electoral Commission to make a public statement that home be not a campaign destination , and call on social medium platform to take immediate action on report hate and misogynistic content and malinformation , misinformation and disinformation . we , as elect member , must act to defend our democracy and our democratic value . to mark International Women ' s Day in 2024 we can show that we , too , accept our personal responsibility to lead that positive culture change — online and offline — in the word that we choose and the way in which we campaign , and I call on Back Benchers , Ministers and party leader to join we . it be the responsibility of we all to safeguard our democracy , and the good way we can do that be by ensure that we have a representative Parliament , welcome everyone to be part of a respectful debate . rise — order . perhaps I should explain how we need to proceed this afternoon . about 20 Back Benchers all together wish to speak in this afternoon ' s two debate , and about an hour of the available time will be take up by the Front - Bench speaker in the next debate . I therefore urge member to try to speak for six or seven minute , which will guarantee fairness . I rise , as I do at this time of the year , to remember the woman kill by man in the last year . this be the ninth year that I have read out the name of woman murder by man . I do it originally in partnership with Karen Ingala Smith , because we be desperate to highlight the pattern of these killing ; the epidemic of man ' s violence against woman and girl have not abate . I pay credit to Karen , who scour the page of local paper try to find the detail in each case . I think that , in the last nine year , this act of memorial have raise the profile of kill woman . today we be more likely to see such case report in the national medium , and over the year the country have grow more activist in this space . the Femicide Census have be bear — where the result of Karen ' s diligent volunteering , alongside that of Clarrie O ' Callaghan , have turn into a grow resource for academic , journalist and policymaker . Karen and Clarrie deserve all the praise in the world for hold the line , never falter wearily on the path , to give these woman and their story the elevation that they deserve . I , however , have grow weary of this task . while it be an honour to do it , and every year when I meet the family — many of whom be with we today — I be remind of why I do it , I be weary and tired of this list . the first year I do it , I feel overwhelmed , and then I grow used to it ; but now I have grow so sad that every year there be the same case of system failure , prison recall not follow up , and child ' s service and family court decision leave woman at risk , and of the fact that not every single police force in our country have a specific woman ' s safety unit , let alone the fact that none of they do . I be tired of the stick plaster , of flee fund instead of welfare reform that would stop victim end up destitute in the first place . I be sick of this review of some harm or other , and that review of sexual exploitation , be place on a shelf and never drive forward . I be tired of hear , on this one day each year , minister announce a little bit of this or a little bit of that . I be tired of the fact that woman ' s safety matter so much less in this place than small boat . I be tired of fight for systemic change and be give table scrap . never again do I want to hear a politician say that lesson will be learn from abject failure , because it be not true . this list be no long just a testament to these woman ' s live ; it be a testament to our collective failure . at least half the name I be about to read out be of woman who could have be save . here be this year ' s list : Alesia Nazarova ; Beryl Purdy ; Holly Bramley ; Susan Turner ; Bernadette Rosario ; Sara Bateman ; an unnamed woman ; Lucy Dee ; Maia Dee ; Rina Dee ; Elise Mason ; Marelle Sturrock ; Suma Begum ; Johanita Kossiwa Dogbey ; Maya Devi ; Suzanne Henry ; Georgina Dowey ; Holly Sanchez ; Hayley Burke ; Katie Higton ; Kelly Pitt ; Christine Sargent ; Danielle Davidson ; Stephanie Hodgkinson ; Sandra Harriott ; Fiona Robinson ; Debra Cantrell ; Emily Sanderson ; Michelle Hodgkinson ; Chloe Mitchell ; Chloe Bashford ; Tejaswini Kontham ; Grace o ' Malley - Kumar ; Monika Wlodarczyk ; Kinga Roskinska ; Natasha Morais ; Felicia Cadore ; Nelly Akomah ; Sarah Henshaw ; Elizabeth Richings ; Lynette Nash ; Elizabeth Watson ; Carol Baxter ; Fiona Holm ; Colette Law ; Rose Jobson ; Ann Blackwood ; Hazel Huggins ; Sharon Gordon ; Claire Orrey ; Christine Emmerson ; Kelli Bothwell ; Liwam Bereket ; Chintzia McIntyre ; Amy - Rose Wilson ; Gabriela Kosilko ; Claire Knights ; Nhi Muoi wai ; Carrie Slater ; Susanne Galvin ; Helen Clarke ; Ruth Hufton ; Elianne Andam ; Charlene Mills ; Alison Dodds ; Deborah Boulter ; Celia Geyer ; Mandy Barnett ; Denise Steeves ; Mehak Sharma ; Caroline Gore ; Sian Hammond ; Michele Faiers ; Christie Eugene ; Perseverance Ncube ; Sharon Butler ; Dawn Robertson ; Victoria Greenwood ; Salam Alshara ; Kiesha Donaghy ; Alison Bowen ; Taiwo Abodunde ; Milica Zilic ; Lianne Gordon ; Kamaljeet Mahey ; Glenna Siviter ; Kacey Clarke ; Keotshepile Isaacs ; Tia Simmonds ; Maya Bracken ; Alison McLaughlin ; Tara Kershaw ; Kanticha Sukpengpanao ; Claudia Kambanza ; Michele Romano ; Claire Leveque ; Sam Varley ; and an unnamed woman , who be 40 year old , from Beaconsfield . as have now become customary , the family of woman kill by man ' s abuse who would not have appear on this list , or who die before I start the custom of the listing , have begin to get in touch with I to ask for those woman ' s name to be read . I want to remember Melissa Mathieson , murder in 2014 , who be house in allegedly supportive accommodation for people with autism together with a man who be a known risk to woman ; she have complain about he , but be not protect against he . we remember Melissa , and know that it bring shame on this House that , across the country , we be turn a blind eye to safety issue around woman in state - fund accommodation . there will be another Melissa in dangerous accommodation as we speak . we must not mourn ; we must act . we also remember Eileen Mary Thomson , who die in 2017 . at the age of 70 , she be kill by her husband in a sheltered housing complex . I be approach by my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) , who ask I to remember Rita Roberts , whose family — his constituent — be recently tell of her murder in Belgium 32 year ago , in 1992 . her body have go unidentified until last year . we remember Rita Roberts and case like her , which be why every year we include on the list woman whose name we do not know . they matter . all of these woman matter . they need to matter much more to politic , and I urge the Government again , as I have do for year , to have a strategy for reduce femicide . warm word , with no political priority , will never make this list shorter . every year , the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , read out that list . I do not think that I have ever have to follow she directly , and it be not an easy job to do . we be here to celebrate as well as commemorate , and as International Women ' s Day be come up next week , it be important that we reflect on what improvement there have be , but also on the failure . my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) have bring forward a motion about the language of politic and the language that we use . I apologise if , follow that horrendous list , the language that I use be a bit flippant . I want to celebrate some of the achievement . I look at the fantastic , joyful experience we have last summer with the " Barbie " movie — a film direct by a woman . it be the big ever debut , and it be a wonderful celebration of all that be frivolous and pink , but have an important underlying message . but what do we learn ? that the Oscar nomination would go to a man . over the last 12 month , my Select Committee have work with some incredible woman who have come to the Committee and tell their story . I particularly reflect on Vicky Pattison and Naga Munchetty , who come and speak so emotionally and importantly about the experience they have go through with adenomyosis and a particular type of premenstrual tension that have cause Vicki to go , in her own word , " really quite mad " . I remember the language of politic immediately after they leave . I remember the email I get from a man — surprisingly — who tell I that he be not interested in hear from my " celebrity mate " . I point out to he that they be not celebrity ; one woman be a broadcast journalist and the other , Vicky Pattison , be a very successful broadcaster in her own right . I send a message to Vicky today : you be not just the woman from " Geordie Shore " . he criticise the fact that we have they in front of the Committee and not other , " serious " woman . that afternoon , I send he an email ask whether he have send the same email to the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , who have have George Osborne in front of her Committee . do Mr Osborne count as a celebrity friend ? the man admit that he do not . I would like to reflect on woman ' s achievement in sport , particularly the achievement of the Lionesses , who do such an incredible job to get to the final of the World cup . I would like to celebrate Spain — I really would — but a man spoil that for we , didn ' t he ? I look at that individual , who make sure that the story of female triumph in sport be , once more , all about the bad behaviour of man . I will not name he . my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke say that we need a world where woman not only have free speech , but can speak freely . I reflect on the sport commentator who come in front of my Committee and say that when they make identical comment to those of male commentator , they be attack on social medium for be stupid or for be female , yet the man get away with their comment with no remark whatsoever . I commend my right hon . friend for her pledge , and for the APPG ' s work to make sure that , in the come general election , we be careful with our language and think about the word we use . it really ought not to be necessary . I would like to think that I can get through this entire election campaign without be racist , sexist or homophobic — it really be not that high a bar to have set . let we see what actually happen . stick with sport , I would like to reflect on Mary Earps — Mary Queen of Saves — but all we get to talk about be her shirt , not her brilliant prowess on the field in make all those save that get England to the final . we have to talk about the fact that Nike do not think that her shirt be important enough to have bother to print one . of course , when she win sport personality of the year , the Sun be the first one out there to talk not about her brilliant prowess , but about the fact that we could see her knicker through her dress . I would like to talk about Taylor Swift , who be Time magazine ' s " person of the year " for a second time , and who have a monthly reach of 100 million people on Spotify . it be an absolutely incredible achievement . we can not talk about Taylor Swift without also have to talk about Kanye West and his effort to silence she , criticise she and , indeed , use she in his music . I would like to talk about Claudia Goldin , the solo female winner of the Nobel prize for economic — the first time there have be a solo female winner . of course , she be study the obstacle that woman face in obtain equal pay , because we be still there . we be still struggle to obtain equal pay and to see the gender pension gap shrink . on today of all day , when we have hear about horrific abuse and the measure that have have to be put in place to protect member of this place , what have be really strike be that colleague have speak not about the abuse they face , but about the abuse their family face . our family feel it . I know that the abuse be bad on social medium , despite " block " , " mute " and " delete " be my good friend . my daughter will send I a text message that just say , " be you okay ? " . that be how I know that it be bad out there . it be so important to remember all those who be affect alongside a Member of Parliament . that include our staff , doesn ' t it ? it absolutely include our staff . my staff be criticise for work for I , when all they have do be apply for a job that they think might be quite interesting and rewarding , and that might give they an opportunity to contribute . there be many challenge , and we have to use our role in this place to do well . I always say that we can all do well . it be important to emphasise that none of we be perfect , and we should always strive to improve and be the very good member of Parliament we can be . journalist the world over ask I whether the job of a Member of Parliament be worth do , whether I feel safe and whether I would recommend it to any young woman , and I leave they with these important word : do it , because it be the good job in the world . the job mean that you can make a difference for your community , and it mean that our democracy be not dominate by white , 45 - year - old man . I apologise to my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) , my constituency neighbour . he be not 45 . I also thank the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for secure today ' s debate . it be always an honour to be here to mark International Women ' s Day . today ' s debate call for respectful language to be use in this place and in the upcoming general election , as the public look to we for leadership and example . it be crucial that we respect each other and those who elect we to be their representative . I reflect on my nine year of serve the people of Swansea East in Parliament , and I be confident that I have build mutually respectful relationship both across the House and throughout the community that I work with . like many colleague , I have have my fair share of abuse , particularly online . it sadden I that it be generally nothing to do with my politic or the cause that I champion ; it be always because of my gender or my appearance — my hair colour , my choice of outfit , my size , or my glass . just this week , follow a debate in Westminster Hall , I be subject to some very interesting abuse from people who purport to disagree with my stance on an issue . however , their comment on x , formerly know as Twitter , have little to do with what I say . to give a flavour : " I wouldn ' t let that thing decide what boxer short I be wear in the morning . " that say more about they than I , I think . " it be of my opinion that you be obese . see a doctor immediately . bring in affordability check for all the " stuff — I have use another word instead of theirs — " you must eat to make you that fat . " another write : " F these blue hair fat ugly freak . " and another : " Shouldn ' t this buffoon be serve jelly and custard to five year old or on lolly pop duty ? " as a former dinner lady , I do not find that at all insulting . that be just a snapshot of the disrespectful , misogynistic rhetoric that these bully — that be what they be — feel that they be entitle to post , just because we be mp . I agree that the language we use in this place be important , but there be a big issue that need to be address . member would be disappoint if I do not talk about the menopause . early this month , Avanti showcase its menopause toolkit for staff . it contain , among other thing : a fan " for hot sweat " ; tissue for " if you ' re feel a bit emotional " ; a paperclip " to help you keep it all together " ; a jelly baby " in case you feel like bite someone ' s head off " ; and a pencil " to write down thing you might forget . " that be hardly the kind of language we should use about anyone , let alone woman who be perimenopausal or menopausal . it be insulting , and it belittle symptom that be so debilitate for many . I be sure it be do with the good intention and be perhaps mean to bring a bit of humour to the situation , but the choice of language be so important . I know from the communication I have receive that it be deeply offensive , not only to a lot of woman but to man , too . People work for the company be disappoint that this be Avanti ' s response . we be hear terrible thing in this discussion about banter . People say thing be just banter , but banter can be very offensive . we should not be intimidate by people who say that we can not take banter . it be important that people realise that some banter be offensive . I agree . before I be elect , my husband always tell I that I would need to have a thick skin . well , it have go past have a thick skin . at the end of the day , I be a human being . People would not speak to a person on the street like that , so why should I or anyone else have to experience it online ? it be not banter ; it be degrade . my mission be to ensure that our conversation and the language we use normalise the menopause in community locally , nationally and even globally . I have have some exciting opportunity to do this , but none more exciting than the opportunity I have last week to join a team of wonderful friend and colleague , with good knowledge and expertise , in go to Eastwood Park woman ' s prison in the constituency of the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Luke Hall ) . Menopause have over 40 symptom , range from anxiety and brain fog to urinary tract infection and vaginal dryness . many woman struggle to navigate this time of their life , and they suffer as a result . imagine not be able to pop out for fresh air during a hot flush ; have night sweat while sleep on a plastic mattress ; or suffer crippling anxiety while lock up alone . that be the reality for woman in prison . the difference I see in the woman between the Monday and the Friday be mind - blow . we deliver a message that make a difference . I be hugely grateful to Davina McCall , Hazel Hayden and the Bristol menopause clinic , Kate Rowe - Ham , Lavina Mehta , Michelle Griffith Robinson and Kate Muir , who come with I to do this work . I be even more grateful to Eastwood Park ' s governor , Zo ë Short , and her team — Abbie Garrett and Alison Rivers — not only for trust we to share the message with the woman , but for be so proactive in support they . the hon . Lady be make a terrific point . she remind I of something I read by Mariella Frostrup in the Times this week , reference the Equality and Human Rights Commission ' s guidance on the workplace treatment of woman with menopause . the guidance say that it should be treat as a disability . do the hon . Lady share my frustration that that completely misunderstand and denigrate what the menopause be ? I totally agree . the menopause be not a disability and should not be regard as such , but any focus on it — and the ehrc bring focus to the menopause — make a huge difference to the messaging , how woman feel and how employer take notice of what they should be do . I will cut my remark short , as I have take up more than enough time . as we look to the general election , can we reflect on how we speak , and the choice we make when we address other ? respect earn respect in this place , in our community , in the country and beyond . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for secure this important debate on language in politic , which give we an opportunity to mark International Women ' s Day . as the 431st female Member of Parliament , the first female MP for my Aldridge - Brownhills constituency and the first female Conservative Chief Whip , I start by stress the importance of increase female participation in politic . sadly , woman face many barrier to enter a career in politic . one of those barrier be the often unpleasant and abusive language to which they be subject . this be totally unacceptable and it can not , and must not , be tolerate . we have to work constantly to change that . this be a cross - party debate and , to set the scene for my speech , I start with this quote : " elect I for what I be and not for what I be bear . " — [ Official Report , 27 April 1992 ; Vol . 207 , c . 15 . ] those be the notable word of the late Betty Boothroyd when she become the first female Speaker of the House of Commons . her initial entry into politic be not easy . it take she five attempt to be elect as an MP , which be something with which many of we will be familiar . it take I three attempt to make it to Parliament . historically , the House of Commons have often be see as a man ' s world . it have often be compare to a private gentleman ' s club , and it be only with the Parliament ( Qualification of Women ) Act 1918 after world war one , underpin by the suffragette movement , that woman be allow to stand as candidate and be elect as mps . as we know , the first sit female MP be Nancy Astor , who be elect as a Conservative MP in 1919 . since then , we have undoubtedly make progress , and by the 1960 no one doubt that woman should be part of the political process . yet here we be in February 2024 with 226 female mps in the House of Commons , which be 35 % of all mp — that be hardly reflective of our country . the conservative party currently have 88 female mp . although that be a triumphant leap from the day when Nancy Astor be the sole female mp , it be still only 25 % of all conservative mp . with woman clearly under - represent in Parliament , we have to ask the question : why ? one decisive factor as to why many woman choose not to enter politic at all be its aggressive and intimidating nature . sadly , Parliament and politic all too often remain overwhelmingly masculine in culture , language and space . even after 100 year in politic , many female politician continue to suffer from bullying , harassment , misogyny and sexism , both in this place and beyond . to see that , we can just take a look at the toxic nature of Prime Minister ' s question some week , where woman have be know to be call " stupid woman " and have even be tell to " calm down , dear " , in an insulting and often patronise tone . surprisingly , when we look in the guidance on " rule of behaviour and courtesy in the House of Commons " , we see that although it contain a section title " parliamentary language " , there be not a single mention of sexist language be inappropriate . I know that Mr Speaker be do a huge amount of work to change the culture and behaviour in this place , but perhaps that be something else we could seek to look at a little far . this language issue extend beyond the Chamber and to all form of communication and setting , be it social medium , mobile phone , tweet or WhatsApp message . this abusive language have to be unacceptable , and I urge all member of Parliament , on both side , to report it and call it out . many female mps have be subject to hate message on their Twitter post — we have hear some example of that this afternoon — and , sadly , some have even receive death threat . that be why I very much welcome the Home Secretary ' s announcement of a £ 31 million package to counter threat to mps ' security , which include cyber - security advice and a dedicated name police contact . that be fundamental to protect and uphold our democracy . as the Home Secretary recently say , no MP should have to accept threat or harassment as " part of the job " . that apply to all mp , but it apply to female mps in particular . some people may perceive politic to be centre around assertiveness and power , but I believe that it be slightly different ; empathy , compassion and our respect must also be at the very core of it too . we see that just by look at the role of woman in the peace and security agenda . I believe that if we all remember why we enter politic in the first place , which be to strive to make a positive change for society , we would all be treat with more respect . most importantly , more woman would be encourage to enter politic . like everyone else here today , I hope that in the near future not just 50 % of all mps will be woman , but that at least 50 % of all mps will be female . when my party have an organisation call " Men2Win " , I know we will have succeed . fairly represent our population be where we need to get to ; we need everyone to be treat with dignity and respect at all time . I still pinch myself when I come into this place . I remember how I feel the first day I sit on the green Benches . it be then , and still be , the big privilege and honour of my life to be a Member of Parliament and to serve the community that elect I , Aldridge - Brownhills . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) . I always say that we will know we have reach true equality in this place when we have as many rubbish woman as we do rubbish man . [ laughter . ] the Home Office Minister should be ashamed of how he attack an Opposition Member of Parliament during the previous statement . I hope that she raise a point of order , because we be talk about the language in this place and we should all be set an example . we see at the weekend the language use by the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) and the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) — order . I just remind the hon . Lady that if she be refer to member , I hope she have notify they that she intend to do so . I have not notify they , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I have just be so angry about this . I will withdraw name they . I thank the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) for call out the language use by those on both side of the House . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) be no long in her place . when she read out her list , it be heartbreaking , and when we see the family member stand , it break all of our heart . the medium be fail woman and , as legislator , we be too , because that list should be get short every year and it be not get short . in the short time I have today , I wish to mention three thing that we can do as legislator to help stop the killing and abuse of woman . I wish to thank Level up and Glamour magazine for their tireless campaign in this area . I also thank the Minister for Women , the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , for the productive discussion we have have on language change to the Independent Press Standards Organisation code . it be important that we have cross - party discussion on that , because we be talk about the safety of woman . it be a shame that those change have not happen yet . I feel that the Minister understand their importance , but I sometimes think there be a barrier stop she from make they happen . I do not know who or what the barrier be , but I feel that she understand the importance of the change . the second thing we need to do be put in place 10 day ' pay domestic violence leave . the third thing we need to do be ensure funding for refuge . let I start by discuss the IPSO code . the way the press report be often inaccurate and undignified , and prioritise sensationalist headline over responsible reporting . that approach need to be replace with responsible reporting that tackle the root of domestic abuse and the dynamic of power and control . we need to end victim blaming . by do that , we will save life . we need to improve and strengthen clause 4 of the code . as Level up have say , clause 4 deal with : " intrusion into grief or shock " . the clause state : " in case involve personal grief or shock , enquiry and approach must be make with sympathy and discretion and publication handle sensitively . these provision should not restrict the right to report legal proceeding . " level up say : " give the academic research on the negative impact of romantic framing and the know damage cause to victim ' family , level up recommend the editor ' Code Committee introduce a subclause to the effect of : ' in case where a person have be kill by a partner or former partner , care should be take not to use language which could frame the killing as an act of ' love ' , or which could be construe to blame the victim for their death . ' " that amendment need to be make to the code with urgent effect . we can not say that this be voluntary ; it have to be enshrine in the code . one in four woman experience domestic abuse in their lifetime . I be sure that all the woman in the Chamber today have suffer some kind of domestic abuse or unwanted attention in their lifetime . every three day a woman be kill by a partner or ex - partner . none of those death have come out of the blue . criminologist have establish that when a woman be murder by a partner , it mark the end of a sustained period of coercive control . abuse do not end when the relationship end . in fact , the time when woman be most vulnerable be when they leave a relationship . the moment someone leave an abusive relationship be the moment of great risk . I urge the Minister to urge the Government to look into a domestic abuse policy require employer to provide up to 10 day ' pay leave , as enact in the Philippines , Australia and New Zealand . by grant victim pay leave , those 10 day will save life . as legislator , there be no great honour than pass legislation that save life . to conclude , the third of my ask be for extra money for refuge . the Women ' s aid " Domestic Abuse Report 2024 " state that £ 189 million should be ringfence for woman ' s refuge service . almost 50 % of organisation have say that they be operate without funding , so they be save life but they be not be pay for it . some 79 % of people use refuge use food bank and 62 . 5 % of survivor be unable to leave their abuser because they can not afford to . level up have an acronym : AIDA . a be for accountability : murder be not a loss of control , but the responsibility of the perpetrator . I be for image : centre image of victim , not perpetrator , and do not place their image side by side ; and use official photo that have be provide by the police or the family , not social medium . D be for dignity : a victim ' s child , family and friend will read the coverage many time . they will be in grief and shock . avoid sensationalise language , invasive or graphic detail . dead woman can not protect their family . finally , a be for accuracy : name the crime for what it be — fatal domestic abuse , not a horror or a tragedy perpetrate by a monster or unknown evil . use statistic from the Office for National Statistics for context on how many other woman have be kill . Gender - base violence be a national and not a personal problem . it be not an isolated incident and many woman be be kill each year . I place it on the record how disappointed I be that not a single man be speak in the debate today . we all have a role to play to empower , inspire and enthuse the next generation of woman , and to face down , and ultimately defeat and silence , toxic misogyny and abuse . that should not be the responsibility of only the woman in this place . specific moment deserve attention . we must celebrate when important glass ceiling be smash . I stand here as a very proud first female MP elect to represent the people of Pontypridd . my party have drive a coach and horse through the idea that to be a parliamentarian mean one have to be a white , privately educate , independently wealthy man . young woman can look to our parliamentary party and see people that look and sound just like they . yet there be still not enough progress . just be here in Parliament be not enough . equality be not about be 50 % of everything ; it be about win heart and mind . it be the drip , drip of education and the embedding of a culture in which woman be genuinely value , respect and champion . I be talk about a world in which online and real - world misogynist be reject outright because young people and other see they for what they be . that culture , education and example be often set by influencer and in society by the word use in this House and beyond by member of Parliament , and other elect or appoint to public service . those word matter . sometimes those word be subtly , even unconsciously , biased . they seem harmless and no doubt the intention be not always sinister . however , those word feed a narrative that have play out for many year across society . today , it be play out daily in both broadcast medium and in fringe space online . People be rapidly be radicalise thank to self - affirm filter bubble amid a culture that be openly target woman . as Hope not hate have point out , feminist , left - wing woman and woman of colour be a common focus . ironically , it might be easy for some to roll their eye at my word . when a woman use the word " radicalisation " in the context of feminism that be often dismiss and ignore , and at bad she be label " a mad feminist " . but what start in fringe space do not end there . it leech on to large social platform and then move into everyday discourse , as radicalise individual feel more comfortable express their hatred in real term . what start with throw a drink over a woman can become , and have become , a murderous attack . such attack can be , have be and be the consequence of language , which be why we need to tackle the widespread harm . that be important and , as shadow tech Minister , I fight hard to ensure Ofcom will have a code of practice for tech company focus on violence against woman and girl . in addition , those call we " love " need to think more carefully about their contribution to the problem . to take this idea far , we have what the global pop sensation Taylor Swift call " a different vocabulary " for man and woman . she say : " a man do something , it ' s strategic . a woman do the same thing , it ' s calculate . " we do not have to look far for other way in which that code differentiation play out . how many time in this place have hon . member speak passionately , only to have be characterise as " emotional " or even " hysterical " ? how many time have we be patronise or tell to " watch our tone " ? the deputy leader of our party , the shadow Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , have be repeatedly objectify and target in mainstream medium for her appearance or conduct , describe by what she be wear rather than what she be say , face with fail attempt to undermine her authority . sadly , she be not alone . how often be that the case for Lord Prescott , for example ? why have Ministers , Back - Bench Members and other in this place have feel perfectly comfortable personally disrespect I in text message , conversation or speech , reduce my value to that of my appearance , effectively devalue important conversation on policy ? particular word can cause particular harm to particular group . when a former Member of this House — a former Prime Minister , no less — compare muslim woman wear the burqa with letterboxe , not only be it mock , cruel and Islamophobic , it lead to a rise in attack on muslim woman , accord to tell Mama . jewish Women ' s aid tell I , as shadow Minister for Domestic Violence , that the omission of word , the failure to believe , and the accusation level at israeli woman that they be lie about the brutal rape and sexual violence which take place on 7 October have serve to undermine confidence in the service offer by jewish Women ' s aid to woman in this country . once again , word have an impact . as I have say , I have have word use to try and intimidate or threaten I . I know colleague have have similar experience . these word undermine and threaten our democracy . when woman in Parliament be under threat , our democracy suffer . when young woman see these threat , it deter they from stand . so let the call go from this Chamber today that we will not be silence — we will not shut up . thankfully , word can also be use for good . above the entrance to St Stephen ' s be an installation that include a representation of the various act of Parliament that have pave the way for woman . history show that word have the potential to change the world for good , and if we want an example , we do not have far to look . inside the cupboard at the back of the Chapel of St Mary Undercroft , on this very parliamentary estate , word mark the effort of Emily Wilding Davison to ensure woman have the right to vote . they serve as a true reminder of the potential for good and for change . I be hearten by the fact that in the face of all the hatred and disgusting word I have have send to I over the last four year , I have be lucky to have constituent , colleague and member of the public share word of kindness . supportive word have flood in from ally , friend and family . I be sure we all can agree that those be the only word that matter . it be a pleasure to follow my good friend . my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and her powerful and passionate speech . I be delighted to speak in this important debate as we approach International Women ' s Day 2024 . I do so as a daughter , mother and sister , the first woman to represent Newport West in Parliament , and a champion of the role woman play in all and every part of our national life . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , for her opening remark and for ensure we could all be here today . I acknowledge and pay tribute to the speech of all those colleague who have speak before I . the focus of the debate be important . we gather in the shadow of the plaque to our late friend , Jo Cox . we should all be a bit kind , do a bit more and go a bit far in make our political discourse healthy , safe and more decent . More than 100 year have pass since the first woman win the right to vote and in 2028 , we will mark the centenary of the equal franchise Act , the most basic but important Bill that give equal voting right to woman and man . since then , and particularly over the last 20 year , woman ' s representation in our politic have be transform , and we have see the positive impact that woman in elect office can make . I pay particular tribute to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , the Mother of the House . she have make it her life ' s work to empower woman , to get many more of we here . as she leave these Benches at this year ' s general election , I thank she for all that she have do for more than 40 year as a Member of this House . I know that I speak for many other in do so . I also thank some of the wonderful woman on the Labour Benches who be stand down at the next election . my hon . friend the Member for Coventry North East ( Colleen Fletcher ) , my indefatigable right hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Dame Margaret Beckett ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) will all be miss by Labour Members , and I believe by Conservative Members too . I acknowledge the strong woman I work with to serve the people of Newport West : Jayne Bryant , our local Member of the Senedd , who be a very good colleague , and the leader of Newport City Council , Councillor Jane Mudd , who be stand to be the first woman police and crime commissioner in Gwent in May . I also acknowledge the woman member of Newport City Council , and of course my very good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) . with our United Kingdom in mind , I send my good wish to Michelle o ' Neill , the new First Minister of Northern Ireland , and to Emma Little - Pengelly , the Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland . it be not a surprise that two woman be lead the way in get the Northern Ireland institution back on track . I know that we all wish they every success . we all know that the presence of woman mp in the room , chamber , corridor and dining hall of power where decision be make have undoubtedly transform our law and policy . yet while woman have be lead the charge on these significant reform , they have also face significant challenge , as the Fawcett Society note in its brilliant briefing , especially black and minority ethnic woman , disabled woman and woman with long - term health condition . we need more woman in elect office , but we will not get more woman to put themselves forward if they know that they will be constantly attack on the basis that they be a woman , a black or minority ethnic woman , or a disabled woman . we all have a responsibility to use temperate and respectful language , and must all regulate the language that we use and ensure that we do not use language that would incite hate , harm people or simply engage in the age - old race to the bottom . how this place represent itself to the people will have an impact on the engagement of woman , and the public more broadly , in politic . the last few week have show that some people in this place have little regard for the impact that their word have on people outside in the real world , and we must not forget that . we can start by get our own house in order . it be important to ensure that those work in this place , as in any other workplace , can do so without fear for their safety , free from abuse and harassment , and that the overall culture be welcome of people from diverse background and with diverse need . that can not be a difficult thing for each of we to work towards every day . we expect it of people in our constituency , so we should lead by example . the abuse that we get online merely add to the deep - seat issue in Parliament regard bullying , harassment and sexual abuse . I know that they be be address with urgency by Mr Speaker , but we must keep go . my hon . friend mention some of the issue be tackle by Mr Speaker , but they be also be tackle by you , Madam Deputy Speaker . you be also stand down at the next election . we should also pay tribute to you for lead the way for woman in our own party , and across the House . I thank my hon . friend for that positive and opportune intervention . I do not want to embarrass you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I thank you for your calm nature last week when you take on the issue that arise . the calm and peaceful way in which you deal with it all be an inspiration to we all . online abuse affect when woman in public office speak and what they speak about . online abuse , particularly abuse that be misogynistic and racist , have a detrimental impact on the mental health and wellbeing of woman in public life , particularly ethnic woman mps , reflect on the emotional toll that it take on they , their family and their staff . it be deeply unfortunate that online abuse spill out into reality , cause real concern about physical safety , with such abuse often include threat of violence . even though woman make up over half of the United Kingdom ' s population , as the right hon . member for Basingstoke say , we make up only 35 % of the House of Commons . there be so much more to do . we be talk about the importance of language in debate , but do she agree that we also need to start think about image , especially with change technology ? several Members present be with I last night at a debate about deepfake and artificial intelligence , host on the Committee corridor by Glamour and my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) , the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . it strike I that a lot of the theme of today ' s debate around the use of language , and how off - put it can be , can also be apply to stuff that be generate very realistically and very quickly . do the hon . Lady agree that we should not forget that while we debate language , and woman in politic ? I absolutely agree . be a luddite , I may not be as familiar as lot of other people in the Chamber with AI and other online issue , but deepfake be deeply troubling . I thank the hon . Lady for highlight that really important issue . I acknowledge that the conservative party have have three woman leader . although the last two do not last very long , the Conservatives have do more than we have , and in due course I hope that Labour will elect its first woman leader . in August 2022 , just 36 % of the 19 , 212 elect councillor across the UK be woman . few than 5 % of council have achieve gender parity , so the need to empower and support woman be clear to all of we . the issue will not be solve overnight , but we need to start make progress . it will not be address by one party , but by all of we work together , and it will not work unless every man in this place , and in our country , recognise the role that they have to play too . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for secure the debate , and to my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be no long in her place . I think that we can all agree that it be very hard to listen to the name that she mention . I will cite just two of they . one be Johanita Dogbey , who be my constituent . she be kill on 1 May last year in broad daylight . follow on from the early statement by the Home Secretary on police resource and the need to ensure that the police respond to thing locally , what be really tragic and sad about that killing be that apparently the gentleman responsible make an attempt two day early in the local area — so could that death have be prevent ? nothing will ever prepare we for have to sit with a grieve family who have lose a child . as we know , no parent should have to bury their child . every so often , I still remember the embrace that I give to Johanita ' s mum , and the pain that she feel — she ask I why her daughter be take . I also want to mention Elianne Andam , one of the other name that my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley mention . again , that senseless killing shock so many people . People will remember that on 27 September , at 8 . 30 in the morning , a young 15 - year - old be tragically stab in her school uniform , on her way to school in Croydon . again , I think about when my hon . friend the Members for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) and for Streatham ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) and I attend the vigil in Croydon a week after , and we embrace Elianne ' s mum , Dorcas . we feel that raw pain of yet another woman ' s life be take and ask ourselves , " why ? why have this be allow to happen again ? " it be for all those woman that we , as female politician — and also male politician — need to do well in address how we conduct ourselves ; we can not let those death be in vain . today , we be debate a motion on language and politic . it be right that we do so , because language do matter . the word that we use really matter . as politician , we all have a responsibility to conduct ourselves in a manner that ensure that we can all be treat with dignity and respect ; yes , there can be passion and even sometimes a bit of anger when we be try to get our point across , but — go back to the statement and to some of the early speech — if we as parliamentarian be not conduct ourselves in that way , we should not wonder why our constituent and the general public then fuel that abuse and hate towards we . we have to be respectful towards each other . it be important that we do not put off further woman from stand for election . I be proud that , in 2019 , I be part of the most diverse intake ever . a small group of 26 of we be elect for Labour for the first time in 2019 , yet we be majority female — 19 of we . of those 19 , 10 of we be BME woman , include the first hijab - wear MP . we should be celebrate that , but if the language come out from politic and from politician be not respectful , we will not see those type of woman stand for election . it be important that we look at that . all party , include my own , have a duty to consider how we treat female politician — not just when they be candidate , but after they be elect . it be about that duty of care and ensure that we be provide a support network for our colleague , and look at how the House authority can help we . deliver woman ' s equality in this place be vital if we be to have a healthy democracy . it be important that all party consider how good to ensure that more woman can come into politic , but we have to be honest about some of the barrier that be still in place . for a number of those woman , campaigning , and time off for public duty , can be expensive . a number of these woman bear the burden of care responsibility , and it be important that we look at what support be in place . as we approach International Women ' s day , we should work together to redouble our effort to support woman who be think about stand for election , and those who be already here to make sure that our politic — not just the language that we use , but the action that we take — continue to be strong and inclusive for everyone . I be pleased to follow all these excellent speech . it have be a worthwhile debate , and I be grateful to the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for bring it here today . debate the language that be use in politic be important , particularly as we approach an election . as we have hear , we can not debate that without speak about the reality of the impact of the language that be use about we and to we . the language in the political sphere have a profound impact on woman in politic now and on those who may or may not want to jump into what be sometimes just a swamp . that sound a bit dramatic , but it be not really . although it be the big privilege to represent our community — I be sure we all feel that very sincerely — the challenge be the discourse , include in here , the language and the abuse . to hear she talk , I think the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) the Member for Swansea must be use my social medium . unfortunately , we all also recognise the target harassment and security concern that go along with some of this . important research by the Fawcett Society point out that the safety and security of elect representative , and the issue around that , be highly gendere . the fact be that we be not representative . woman make up more than half the population , but only 34 % of mps . we need to do well there . I applaud the new Scottish Government Cabinet . it have be gender balance for many year now , but the new Cabinet be , I think , 70 % female . that be a significant and important step . it be welcome to see all these capable woman take their place . it be tell that the debate today follow on from statement on the security of elect representative and on the Angiolini inquiry into the circumstance around the murder of Sarah Everard . although I have be glad to participate in the last few International Women ' s Day debate , there be an undercurrent , which be bring into stark focus again today by the Angiolini inquiry report . we need to reflect on the awful reality of where the normalisation of behaviour , and the amplification of language and attitude , can lead to . my very deep sympathy be with the family of Sarah Everard . they be also with the family of Emma Caldwell , whose killer be sentence yesterday to 36 year ' imprisonment for her murder in 2005 . their ordeal have be so awful . they have wait so long for answer , but those answer , while very important , will not bring their much - love Emma back . Emma be reportedly someone with many friend , who , despite have a very difficult time in life , be appreciate , value and love . I appreciate any and all headline that manage something that should not be so difficult : when talk about Emma , to use her name and not just describe she as " sex worker " — Sky News , you must do well . I do hope that Emma ' s very brave family can now find peace . every hon . member who have speak today have , unsurprisingly , note the impact of online abuse on their participation in democracy . the right hon . member for Basingstoke eloquently point out that robust debate be not the same as abuse . we could be here all day — probably all week or more — if we start down the road of give example that be far from even pretend to be debate . the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) be right to say that what start in fringe space do not end there . the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) speak well about language . there be our language here — I be think of the recent remark by the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , not make in this Chamber , but the context be that of an MP speak . that be a powerful and unfortunate example of the power of language . what we say and how we say it do not just reflect on or influence we , but enable people — man , mainly — to abuse woman , include not only politician , but other woman who have the audacity to have opinion and to want to express they . that be regrettable , because of the likely impact of turn woman off politic and the democratic process . Glimmer of light and all that , though : I be at the St Ninian ' s High School career fair a couple of week ago , and the number of powerful , articulate and smart young woman interested in career in democracy , politic , research and so on be heart - warming . I wish they all every success . there be space to welcome some positive , but I will touch on some other woman we need to mention before I close , not least the woman in the middle east . we know about the awful and disproportionate impact on woman , and that be horribly clear as we watch with horror what be unfold there : the israeli woman catch up in the Hamas terror attack , the hostage and their family — it be impossible to imagine how they be cope ; and the woman in Gaza deal with unimaginable thing — with the death , destruction , privation that we can not begin to imagine , and childbirth without hospital or medical facility , these woman be suffer beyond belief . I would like to end on a more upbeat note and to speak about the woman of East Renfrewshire who do so much good . I do not have time to speak about many of these brilliant woman , but I would like mention the woman in my office team , Carolyn , Nix , Freya , Katie and Sampurna , who all deliver every day for our community — I be fortunate to work with they — and my East Renfrewshire councillor colleague , Councillors Angela Convery , Caroline Bamforth and Annette Ireland , who be all woman of substance and hugely commit to improve their community . I must also mention two special woman commemorate just last week at the 20th anniversary event of the Auchenback Resource Centre . they be memorialise on lovely bench that sit outside the front of the centre . I think that the House would want to join I in reflect on the great work that Rita Connelly and Irene Simpson do for the people of Auchenback and on how much of a difference those powerful woman make to the people who live in their area . that be a useful point at which to conclude . we all understand that this be a challenging time , but we must ensure that as well as point out the difficulty and challenge , we celebrate powerful woman like these , who make a real difference . before I call the shadow Secretary of State , I remind member again that if they be go to refer to other member , they should notify they . criticism of other hon . member should only be on a substantive motion . I commend the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for secure this important debate . I thank everyone who have participate in it . the issue of language in politic be vital in relation to International Women ' s Day . it be possible to celebrate this important occasion , as we rightly do every year , while acknowledge the wide issue for woman in politic and in society . many member have already reflect on the frankly caustic nature of political campaigning . as the shadow Secretary of State for Women and Equalities , I too have sadly become accustomed to what I can only describe as an often toxic discourse , include on equality issue . complex and sensitive matter get boil down to simplistic , overly oppositional narrative , such that substance be overshadow or even completely disregarded . well , I want that to change . I want the issue that we debate in this House always to be centre on the fact of the matter and the merit of policy . the debate be important because the language that parliamentarian use have an impact on the world outside this place . we member all have a responsibility to use respectful language while we debate . member be of course rightly passionate about issue , but passion can not justify intemperance of the nature that we have see too often lately . my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) be right to refer to the word of the late Jo Cox , who so powerfully remind we all of what we have in common , despite any point of division . as the representative of our constituent , we need to take responsibility for the word we use . the hon . Lady make an important point . will she join I in regret ever hear a Member of this House refer to their opponent as " scum " ? I think it absolutely right , when any Member make a mistake , as be the case in that instance , that they apologise . that be unacceptable , and it be right that the Member concerned apologise . I would like all member to apologise when they use divisive language , whether it be of the type that the right hon . Lady just describe , or racist or sexist language of all type . it do we no favour when the House try to tiptoe around these matter , as we have see over recent day and previously . we need to face up to they , because language matter , word matter , and the language and word use by member matter , so I appeal to all side of the House to ensure that the language that we use be respectful . we be not at war with each other , and the language we use should reflect politic as a battle of idea , not insult . be my hon . friend as disappoint as I be about the failure of some member of Parliament to call out Islamophobia ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point . I have be very disappointed by that , as I would have be about any case of prejudiced or racist language that do not consider what a member or politician have say or do but instead suggest that their appearance , faith , ethnicity or gender be what should be focus on . we surely need to move beyond that as member of this House . we also need to move beyond that in the online world , about which we have hear a number of powerful speech . we need a more powerful regime than that in the Online Safety Act 2023 . my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) set out powerfully why change be need there and how it can be achieve . I think that everyone in the Chamber be disgusted to hear the misogynistic abuse that have be direct towards one of the most formidable campaigner in the House , my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) . the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) also set out clearly the need to prevent abuse from become the norm in online political debate and discussion . of course , in ensure that the language we use do not prevent woman ' s participation in our politic , we also need to ensure , as we look towards International Women ' s Day next week , that our politic deliver on the representation of woman more broadly , and on the issue of concern to woman . it be possible to achieve parity between man and woman on these green Benches ; it be possible to have a gender - balance parliamentary party and a gender - balanced shadow Cabinet and Front - Bench team . my party have achieve that , and I hope that other party will seek to achieve it in future , because , sadly , we be far from that . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Workington ( Mark Jenkinson ) mention leadership from a sedentary position , quite rightly . I believe that leadership be mention early in the debate , but he be not there for it . the debate have show that woman ' s leadership be alive and kick on all side of the House , and I be very pleased to see that , but we need more action . that be why we believe that we should enact section 106 of the Equality Act 2010 — so that all political party publish datum on the diversity of their candidate , include how many woman they have stand for office . perhaps because the motion before we today focus particularly on the issue of language , there have be less reference to incredible woman in our society , but we do have a focus on some of they . we hear from the right hon . member for Basingstoke about those involve in medicine , particularly gynaecology , and from the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) about the absolute legend who be Mary Earps , who have inspire so many girl and woman in sport . those advance should not be forget , but neither should the need for more action to deliver great woman ' s equality in society . unfortunately , we be move backwards in some area — we have hear about a number of they this afternoon . reference have be make to the gender pay gap ; at the current rate , it will take 41 year to completely close that gap . I do not know how many member in the Chamber today expect to still be in the House in 2064 . I hope everyone have a long and healthy career ahead , but that be surely too long for woman to wait to get the equal pay we desperately need . of course , we have also discuss the appalling epidemic of violence against woman and girl in our country . this debate follow the discussion about part 1 of the Angiolini review of the truly appalling event lead up to the murder of Sarah Everard . as she have do eight time previously , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , read out the name of the many woman who have be murder , and of course speak about unnamed woman as well . we hear some appalling example from my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , who speak about her constituent . there be surely a very clear need for action when we see , for example , that only 1 . 5 % of record rape lead to a charge , and that rate of prosecution for domestic violence be fall , and also the kind of press treatment of victim that my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) set out so clearly . we also see the desperate need for action on woman ' s health — we have not have time to discuss that issue today — and action for woman in the workplace . we need to deliver that change . there be a need for legislative alteration , and as we have hear today , there be a need for a change in the tenor of debate , so that we be always promote woman in our politic and they be never put off it because of divisive language . I start by thank my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for secure this important debate , and all hon . member for their contribution . the use of language , particularly in politic , be such an important topic . member have share very personal experience , include the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , the hon . member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) , and the hon . member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , who have be criticise for her hair colour . my criticism be that my hair look like it be borrow from my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) , so I share her frustration at that abuse . why do this abuse matter ? my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) put it very eloquently : it stop woman from speak freely , not just woman in this place but woman in our community . at the moment , we have very toxic debate around issue such as biological sex , with people lose their job and face prosecution just for want to have an honest debate . I be pleased that member on all side of the House have say this afternoon that it be important to have a sophisticated level of debate on very sensitive issue , but also about the general level of abuse that woman face up and down this country . as the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) say , what be class as banter by some people be very much abuse for other . the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) always campaign very hard on the issue of how abuse of woman be report in the medium . we have meet to discuss this , and I be frustrate that progress have be slow . I can assure she that I have meet ministerial colleague , but also the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , and I will follow up after this debate . it be really important that when woman be murder in our community , it be not report as a crime of passion . it have to be report as it be : it be murder and abuse . that language make a difference to how those crime be then treat . it be true — this be the focus of what my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke set out — that the situation have an effect on our democratic accountability and who stand for election . we want more woman , and more woman from the real world , stand for election . however , the Fawcett Society find that 93 % of woman MPs say that online abuse or harassment have have a negative effect on how they act as Members of Parliament . it stop talented woman come forward for all party , and we be lose good hon . member . my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) be one example of a woman leave this place . we hear early in this parliamentary term from Rosie Cooper that the reason she stand down early be the abuse and threat she receive . we have lose good member such as she , which be very sad for Parliament . we be potentially in an election year , so it be as important as ever that our language be measure — in this place , and in our political party . every single political party can play a role , and nobody stand for election should suffer intimidation for hold or aspire to hold elective office . we have introduce measure to try to make the experience fair . since 2022 , anyone who intimidate a candidate , campaigner or elect representative can be bar from elective office for five year . it be great that we be pass legislation like that in this place , but it need to be enforce , because abuse be too often see as something that just go with the job . no one — not my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , nor my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) — should have their office burn or people protest outside their home simply for represent their constituent . the debate reflect the wide debate in society about violence against woman and girl . sadly , the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , have to read out her list again this year , and one of the woman she mention be my constituent Chloe Bashford , who be murder in horrific circumstance in Newhaven . the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) comment on two tragic death in her constituency of woman who be also on that list . we have make significant progress , have publish the tackle violence against woman and girl strategy and the tackle domestic abuse plan , but that be not go fast enough . we all have a role to play , not just the Government ; it be the role of all agency , from the police to the court , to absolutely make sure that femicide be take seriously and deal with when people come forward to give evidence and share their story . our Domestic Abuse Act become law in 2021 . that legislation be make a difference . abuser be no long allow to directly cross - examine their victim in the family and civil court , and victim have well access to special measure in courtroom . however , conviction rate be still too low . we also support the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 , and the hon . member for Bath bring in the Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Act 2023 , which address harassment in the workplace . that be for everyone , but we know that woman be affect by that in more way than most . the final piece I want to address be the role of the medium , give the upcoming election . it be really important that debate and vote in this place be reflect fairly . one example be the sewage vote , which be an attempt to end the use of sewage outflow in this country . we Conservative Members vote to dismantle our sewage system and have a long - term plan to end sewage discharge , but that be often portray in the medium as vote against stop any restriction on sewage , which have result in multiple death threat and abuse for Conservative Members . when journalist ask why mp be abuse so much , I would say that journalist ' language , and the way that they portray what happen in this place , be as important . I will not get the Minister to say this , but I will say it for she . can we also look at those who write Commons sketch ? I be particularly think of Quentin Letts , who be a bit prone to go after people like I for be too pony club posh , and my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) for have pink nail varnish . the list be endless , and it be never about what we say , but about what we look like . absolutely . we need to remind each other that we all have a role to play — not just mps but wide society . the fundamental issue be that if female mp be be target and harass , that will be reflect for woman up and down this country ; if it be see as okay to target elect representative for what they look like or what they say or how they vote , that will be reflect in wide society . there be a democratic system in this country : if people be not happy with who represent they , they go to the ballot box and they decide . what be not acceptable be for Members of Parliament , local councillor , police and crime commissioner , member of the Senedd , the Scottish Parliament , the Northern Ireland Assembly and other , even down to school governor , who be take difficult decision , which would have be take long before if they be easy , to be intimidate in how they vote . if that be tolerate , violence against woman and girl will be tolerate , perpetuate and accept too . I thank everyone for such a positive debate . we have get to speak up , we have get to stand up and we have get to take part and not let the hater win . first , I should point out that I think every debate should end with two Marias . I thank all member who have speak for their contribution today . word matter , and the word we use matter even more because they be often repeat by people outside . that point have be clearly make by a number of Members today and I thank they for do so . I thank everybody for their contribution and remind everybody that next Friday be International Women ' s Day . it be an opportunity to remember all the woman in our life , and I will be remember my daughter , Georgia , who be the most formidable daughter anyone could ever have . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the use of language in politic in light of International Women ' s day ; agree that the respectful use of language be an important feature of a strong and inclusive democracy ; and call on all parliamentary candidate to pledge that respectful language will be use at all time in the upcoming General Election campaigning period . Welsh Affairs I beg to move , that this House have consider Welsh affair . it be good to see you back in the Chair for the annual debate on Welsh affair , Mr Deputy Speaker . we call it the St David ' s day debate , although this year it fall just prior to St David ' s day . I wish all member a very happy St David ' s day for tomorrow — dydd g ŵ yl Dewi Hapus . let I start my remark , however , on a slightly discordant note . it be a bit disappointing that yet again the debate on Welsh affair , the annual St David ' s day debate , be be squeeze in the timetable . two very important debate be schedule for this afternoon and anybody present in the Chamber for the previous debate will have hear the serious remark and speech make in it , but may I ask you , Mr Deputy Speaker , to give we some guidance during the course of the debate on how we can get back to a situation where we protect the time for Welsh Members to have their one day a year to raise matter of importance for their constituent ? there be a feeling among many of we that the small nation of the United Kingdom be not be serve in this institution at the moment . put that aside , it be good to have this debate again and , as the Member of Parliament for Preseli Pembrokeshire , I be extremely honoured to represent the city of St Davids . we have argue before during these debate about whether David be bear in Ceredigion or in Pembrokeshire , but the fundamental point for those of we from Pembrokeshire be that this 6th century monk who found the bishopric be hugely importance to we culturally , socially and economically in continue to attract visitor from all over the country and indeed the world to the city of St Davids . a few week ago I be honour to attend the cathedral for the enthronement ceremony of the 130th bishop of St Davids , Bishop Dorrien , who represent just the late in a continuous line of bishop go all the way back into the mist of the dark age to the time of David himself . that be remarkable and mark out our corner of west Wales as somewhere very special indeed . I be sure that all member who represent Wales in the House , particularly those with constituency in the diocese , will wish Bishop Dorrien all the good . it be a massive privilege for I to have be Chairman of the Welsh Affairs Committee in this Parliament . give that this will be the last St David ' s day debate of this Parliament , I put on record my huge thank to my fellow member on the Committee , who be a joy to work with . I learn so much from they , and I thank they for the hard work they have put in to the Committee ' s work over the past four year . I also thank the Clerk of the Committee , Alison Groves , and the previous Clerks we have have , start with Adam Evans , Anwen Rees and Sarah Ioannou , all of whom be incredibly intelligent and diligent and have make my job as Chairman so much easy . I be conscious , when I become Chairman of the Committee , that I be follow in massive footstep — the shoe no less of the current Secretary of State for Wales , who be not only an outstanding Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , but a popular one . I know I have big shoe to fill , but I start off with three objective that I outline to the Clerks team when I become Chair . those be to see whether as a Committee we could : show relevance ; improve our visibility ; and , through that , improve our impact as a Committee not only on government decision , but more broadly on national life in Wales . in how we have go about our work as a Committee over the past four year , we have try to stay true to that . although those thing be difficult to measure , we feel we have put a lot of worthwhile effort into the Committee , and many of the inquiry we have investigate have bear fruit . we have look at some big picture issue , such as the future of broadcasting in Wales . at a time of enormous change in the global broadcasting industry , we have look at the particular risk for Welsh public service broadcaster , which be the bedrock of Welsh broadcasting success , and the role of Welsh language broadcasting in our national life . we hope that the Government continue to take note of the recommendation we make on that subject . we have also look at some specific , sometimes quite technical issue , such as grid capacity in Wales . that be a technical issue for we to grapple with , but it be of such importance for unlock all the opportunity and potential for renewable energy in Wales and for ensure that our constituent see the benefit from the energy revolution through such thing as the rolling out of electric vehicle and charge point . we have also try to be reactive as and when new information and datum have come to light on issue of public importance . we have try to respond quickly . water quality and the scandal of sewage pollution in Wales be one issue that we have focus on . we have hold not just one , but two session with the boss of the water company in Wales , Natural Resources Wales and Ofwat . we hold the second session because we be not satisfied with some of the answer we get in the first , and because of new information that come to light that appear to suggest that Welsh Water know it be pump illegally large volume of sewage into water in Wales . one of my priority in lead the Committee have be to try to get the Committee out and about in Wales . some of the most meaningful meeting we have have as a Committee have not necessarily be with people on the parliamentary estate or upstairs in a Committee Room , but in Wales . I think , for example , of meet a - level student at Gower College and talk to they about their aspiration , how they consume medium , and in particular the role of social medium in their life . so little of what they consume through these new digital channel have any Welsh - specific content and we discuss the implication that might have for the future . purely for the record , and as a fellow of Gower College Swansea , can I ask the right hon . gentleman to include the full title for Hansard ? the full title — Gower College Swansea . Gower College Swansea — the hon . Lady have make her point with her usual force and eloquence . I think as well of the meeting we have with apprentice at the magnificent Airbus factory in Broughton . the Airbus apprenticeship scheme must be the most impressive , and probably the most competitively apply for apprenticeship , anywhere in the country . what we see there be really impressive . I also think about the meeting we have a few week ago at his Majesty ' s Prison Cardiff , where we spend the morning , which finish up with a sit down session with a group of prisoner who open up to we in the most remarkable way . they talk about their upbringing , struggle with relationship and addiction , past failure and mistake , and their hope for the future . what really strike a chord with I be how they talk about feel respect by the staff at the prison and feel that they could give respect back . there be hardly a dry eye in the room at the end of that session , which be probably the most powerful and move thing I have do as a Member of Parliament in the past 18 year . the right hon . Member be give a really interesting introduction . I be glad that he mention the work do by prison staff , because their work be so critical . he must agree that we have an anomaly in the justice system in Wales whereby so many of the critical support service for prisoner come out of prison be run by the Welsh Government . that situation be not reflect anywhere else in the England and Wales legal system , and , soon or later , that must come to a close , because it be insufficient . order . before Mr Crabb come back in with a response , I will let people know that there will be an unofficial five - minute limit . I also very much take on board what Mr Crabb have to say about ensure a decent amount of time to discuss Welsh affair in future . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I do not agree with the right hon . Lady . we have be take evidence on exactly that issue and we have come across extremely professional people work in those public service and the prison to ensure that the jagged edge of devolution , if you like , do not create disadvantage for Welsh prisoner . we will continue to look at that during our current inquiry . let I move on — briskly , if I can . I have be very encourage by the engagement we have have with UK Ministers . I thank the Secretary of State and his predecessor for the 10 public evidence session they have have with we over the last four year . it be also worth note that we have have the First Minister of Wales in front of we four time , and we have have 10 other session with other Welsh Government Ministers . I believe that that level of engagement with the Welsh Government be unprecedented , and I hope it will continue , whoever lead the Welsh Affairs Committee in the next Parliament . the Committee have also be able to question the chief executive of some of the devolved body , include : transport for Wales over deterioration in rail performance in Wales ; the chief executive of Natural Resources Wales about water quality ; and , as we do yesterday , the chief executive of the Development Bank of Wales , which be of course responsible to the Welsh Government . I have also try to change how the Committee work as a team . one thing I have do be exploit the Standing Orders that allow guesting . I be pleased that we have have Welsh Members of Parliament who be not member of the Committee plug in and take part in individual inquiry where they have a specific interest . notably , the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) have do so for the broadcasting inquiry and my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) have do so when we have be look at the defence industry in Wales . I have also seek to involve some of the Chairs of the Senedd Committees . I be pleased that Delyth Jewell join we for the broadcasting inquiry , and Llyr Gruffydd join we when we be question the chief executive of Transport for Wales . we will have a challenge in the next Parliament , as we will have significantly few member of Parliament from Wales , which — I say this with great sadness — will inevitably mean a weak Welsh voice in this institution . both in absolute and relative term , Welsh representation will be small in the next Parliament . in term of ensure that the Welsh Affairs Committee can continue to build on the good work we have do — I have a great interest in this — I think we will have to change how the Committee work . the Welsh Grand Committee be effectively moribund , and nobody be mourn its slow death , but the Welsh Affairs Committee have prove its worth . I would like to we to move to a situation where all Welsh Back Benchers have the opportunity to participate in different inquiry , depend on their interest and availability . I have write to the Leader of the House and the Chair of the Liaison Committee about that issue . a lot more work be to be do to get progress on that . I would like member who hope to be back in the next Parliament to bear that in mind as we think about how to ensure that Welsh representative make their presence count here at Westminster . my final note be about Senedd reform , because that be the other side of the democratic coin in Wales . the Welsh Government plan to expand the Senedd quite significantly , with 36 additional member , and different figure have be put on the cost . my big concern be about how they intend to elect those member . I have question the First Minister about the fact that there will be multiple member for the same constituency . the First Minister do not think it present such a problem , and suggest that one of the strength of the new system will be that someone who might want to take an issue to a Conservative Member of the Senedd could do that , or they could take it to Plaid Cymru Member , because that might reflect their political preference . that be a fundamental shift from how we go about our business as member of Parliament in our constituency . I do not care whether someone vote , how they vote , or whether they put up a sign for I or do everything they could to get I out of office . I will represent that person to the very good of my ability . I fear that with a " plurality of representation " — to use the First Minister ' s word — in these new supersize constituency , we will end up with a fuzzy , more diluted sense of democracy in Wales at a time when both in Westminster and in Cardiff we need Welsh politician to be much more effective and show value to all our constituent and get the change that we want in Wales , as it desperately need . I will bring my remark to a close here , and I look forward to hear what other member have to say . rise — order . as I say , please try to keep speech to about five minute , so that everyone have the chance to speak . I thank the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for secure this debate — one that I look forward to every year . even though this year we be here off the back of three defeat so far in the man ' s Six Nations , the potential of a young squad under the leadership of Warren Gatland be very exciting . my glass continue to be half full . I be also look forward to watch the woman ' s Six Nations and to see they run out on to the Principality pitch . our national joy of rugby must have a mention , but I speak about rugby in the last two debate so I will not make hon . member suffer it again . instead , I will sing the praise of my wonderful constituency . I make no apology about state that I represent the most beautiful constituency in Wales . [ hon . member : " no ! " ] I know that other member may argue for their patch , but that only go to show that we be very lucky to call Wales home . as hon . member all know , the Gower peninsula be the first designate area of outstanding natural beauty , not just in Wales but across the whole of the UK . over the recess I pay a visit to the View Rhossili , an aptly name hospitality business overlook the remarkable Rhossili bay , to discuss the issue of hospitality in Wales , especially vat . Rhossili bay be often include in list of the good beach in the world . there be no question for I that it belong with the like of Bondi and Venice beach . my favourite walk be the one to Worms Head . it be only four mile from the car park , but it be an amazing walk with every type of terrain . I pay tribute to the Coastwatch volunteer at the end , as Princess Anne do only a few week ago in the constituency . the work of the volunteer there to keep our people safe when walk out to the Worm be second to none . other part of Gower be renowned for other reason . last week I pay a visit to Selwyn ' s Seafoods , which harvest cockle and laverbread collect from Penclawdd . the cockle industry have be part of the life of penclawdd since at least the roman period , with cockle source there sell worldwide . history be so important for the Gower family , who have travel widely to sell their cockle . it really warm the cockle of your heart , to coin a phrase . I would like to take a moment or two to recognise the boundary change , which the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire mention . they will affect I : should I be successful at the next election , I would lose my constituent in Clydach . I would like to thank they for their commitment to I and for their support . in October last year , I be lucky enough to be at the opening of the restore Clydach lock . I pay tribute to the work of the Canal & River Trust and especially to Councillor Gordon Walker , who hand I an axe with which to open the lock . no damage do , member will be pleased to know , but it be one of the highlight of my seven year in this place . the Gower constituency may be lose Clydach , but it will gain Cockett , Dunvant and the rest of Killay , Mayals , and the new ward of Waunarlwydd , so I think I might include a few fun fact . I will have to cut they short , but the Cockett ward include Fforestfach , which use to be home of not one but two greyhound racing stadium . on Dunvant and Killay , Dunvant be most famous as the home of the dunvant male voice choir , the old continuously singe choir in Wales , found in 1895 . after campaign for year , the Mayals ward be now home to Mumbles Skatepark , a fantastic addition to the Mumbles seafront . finally , Waunarlwydd — or " one eyelid " to the local — be a ward that split out of Cockett . I have the pleasure of play woman ' s rugby there for a little bit and I have many , many good friend as a result — I have to get rugby in one more time . it be a testing time in Wales at the moment , and Tata Steel job be have an impact on people in my constituency , but I be always there to support they . it be also a testing time in agricultural community across Europe , not just in Wales : this be not a singular particular issue . we have to work together cross - party and with our farming community , and encourage all constituent who want to make their voice hear to respond to the consultation with the Welsh Government before it close on 7 March . I look forward to hear the rest of today ' s speech . I speak well french and italian than I do Welsh , but I will dust off my famous phrase and say , " Dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus , pawb . " I stand for the council in Cockett once . clearly , I do not get elect , but you be go to enjoy Cockett . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) on secure the debate and mildly support his criticism of its attenuated nature ; it be really not acceptable . last Saturday , I have the great pleasure of host the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , as he visit the town of Ruthin in my constituency . Ruthin be — I apologise to the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) — arguably the fine , most beautiful small town in the whole of Wales . it be benefit from a levelling - up award of some £ 11 million . the Secretary of State be very impressed with the levelling - up proposal for Ruthin and he receive a warm welcome . that be in contrast with what happen two day previously , also in my constituency , when the Welsh Government ' s First Minister decide to cancel a visit to Colwyn Bay , have receive a warm welcome of a rather different nature from farmer in Rhyl the previous day . the farmer be protest about the Welsh Government ' s sustainable farming scheme , which they consider detrimental to their interest . I fully share their view . the Welsh Government ' s proposal , which as we have hear be currently subject to a consultation , would require farmer to set aside 10 % of their land for tree planting and another 10 % for wildlife habitat to qualify for subsidy payment . the Welsh Government say that the aim of the scheme be " to secure food production system , keep farmer farm the land , safeguard the environment , and address the urgent call of the climate and nature emergency . " it be hard to see how reduce the productive land available to each farmer by 20 % will either " safeguard food production system " or " keep farmer farm the land " , and it be impossible to see how any measure introduce by the Welsh Government , in almost any context , will make any appreciable difference to the climate emergency . the Welsh Government ' s plan , quite simply , will damage agriculture in Wales , and that be not just my view . it be also the conclusion of the Welsh Government ' s own impact assessment , which predict that the policy would result in " a 10 . 8 % reduction in Welsh livestock number ; an 11 % cut in labour on Welsh farm ; and a £ 125 . 3 million hit to output from the sector and a loss of £ 199 million to farm business income . " give that their own impact assessment have predict such dreadful consequence , it be almost impossible to understand why the Welsh Government think it be a good idea to plough on , so to speak , with what be clearly a catastrophic policy . there be no doubt that climate change be a reality , which need to be address and , indeed , be be address very effectively by the Westminster Government . however , when decide whether the Welsh Government ' s proposal be sensible or proportionate , we should take into account the fact that Welsh greenhouse gas emission be already very low indeed . in 2021 , the United Kingdom contribute only 0 . 77 % of global greenhouse gas emission . of those emission , Wales be responsible for just 7 . 5 % , and the Welsh agricultural sector be responsible for only 15 % of those Welsh emission . Welsh agricultural greenhouse gas emission therefore constitute just 0 . 008866 % of the global total . Nigel Lawson famously observe that to govern be to choose . it be clear that the Welsh Government have deliberately choose to penalise Welsh agriculture , damage Welsh farming income and decimate the rank of those employ in the rural economy in order to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emission that will , in global term , be wholly insignificant . may I suggest , very respectfully , that rather than wind up the rhetoric , the right hon . Gentleman should encourage his constituent to respond to the consultation ? there be still a whole week to go . I can assure the hon . Lady that my constituent have respond to the consultation , both on paper and physically . several of they be in Cardiff yesterday , object to this ludicrous proposal . if large number of Welsh farmer be force off their land , which the Welsh Government ' s own impact assessment predict that they will be , the consequence will be increase rural depopulation . Welsh culture will be undermine , the Welsh language weaken , and it will be another nail in the coffin of the Welsh rural way of life — but that , it would appear , be entirely acceptable to the Welsh Government , provide that it result in a pitifully small reduction in emission . of course , it be not just the farming community that be be damage by the disproportionate pursuit of reduce greenhouse gas emission . reduce emission be use to justify the ludicrous 20 mph speed limit that now prevail across build - up area in Wales — a measure so hate that nearly 470 , 000 people have sign a petition call for it to be scrap . the same justification be give for last year ' s decision to abandon all major road - building project in Wales , include the desperately - need third Menai crossing . when he announce the policy , the Welsh Government ' s Deputy Minister for Climate Change — yes , they apparently have a Deputy Minister as well as a Minister — acknowledge that " none of this be easy . " he be quite right in that respect . it be not easy for farmer , for commuter , for business people or for family . livelihood be be put at risk and life be be make miserable by a Welsh Government who be put dogma ahead of common sense . let I repeat that to govern be to choose . the Welsh Government could , and should , make a new choice . they should recognise that they be the Administration of a relatively small , lightly populated part of the United Kingdom , and that they should be serve its specific need and address its priority in a proportionate manner . Wales need well health care , well school , well road , a well economy and a well quality of life , and those need be not well serve by the dead hand of climate change fanaticism . it be a huge pleasure to speak in this debate , and I congratulate the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) on secure it . I have to say to my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) that we have the good view in Wales — she can not deny that . I have to confine my remark to two topic so that there be time for other colleague to come in , and I would like to talk first about railway . wale account for around 11 % of the route length of the rail network in England and Wales , but have have only 1 . 6 % of rail enhancement spending in the last decade . we in south - west Wales have a vital railway link from London to the port of Pembrokeshire , where ferry provide a link to Ireland , but we desperately need investment in the line . we have have the fiasco of the stop - start on electrification . when Labour leave power in 2010 , we have plan to electrify the line all the way from London to Swansea . the Conservative - Lib Dem coalition Government cancel the section from Cardiff to Swansea , then reinstate it after campaign from mps — only to cancel it again . when the right hon . member for Carmarthen West and South Pembrokeshire ( Simon Hart ) be Secretary of State for Wales , he stand at the Dispatch Box and claim that it be not worth do because the nature of the track mean that there would not be any significant improvement in speed , so the journey time would not be any short . that completely miss the point , because electrification of the line be vital for other reason . the first reason be tackle climate change , as use electricity from renewable source mean that we can make a significant contribution to cut emission . the second reason be pollution ; it be much well to have nice , clean electric train , rather than the diesel fume that be currently pump out into our station and urban area . the third reason be noise . in Central Square in Cardiff , the noise and pollution come from the diesel train in the station be dreadful , and it be certainly not improve our city centre environment . then we come to the state of the railway . time after time , colleague and I find ourselves delay on our journey to and from London , and all too often it seem to be because of a basic failure of infrastructure . the failure of signal system mean that some line be block . there be point failure , damage to overhead electrical wire and defective track , with delay and cancellation between London Paddington and Reading . often we be tell that there be congestion through the Slough and read area . there simply do not appear to be the capacity to carry the traffic , yet this be a major railway line link south and west Wales to London . it provide an international route to Ireland , yet the problem be constant . it be an embarrassment that people come to our capital city of Cardiff for important event be delay , and the problem be that it be not an occasional occurrence but a regular problem . I find it easy to count the time that the train be on time than those when it be delay . if the issue be not technical problem , it be flood in the Swindon area when there be heavy rain , as happen only 10 day ago . that result in a massive detour around Bath , with people pack like sardine on the train . we be tell that these storm event be likely to become the norm and not the exception , so solution should be find and improvement make . I urge the Secretary of State for Wales to lobby the Secretary of State for Transport for the badly need improvement to the line . the connectivity be vital , and we want people to enjoy come to Wales — whether for pleasure or business . come far west , yes , we have see improvement to the Loughor bridge , but we need a real commitment from the Government to invest in and upgrade the railway line all the way through Llanelli and Carmarthen to Pembrokeshire . we need pressure from the Government to ensure that Network Rail maintain its asset to the high standard , not least to minimise flooding in area along the coast from Llanelli to Carmarthen , through Ferryside . I turn to energy . we in the Labour party be absolutely committed to make Wales and the UK a renewable energy superpower . indeed , the Welsh Labour Government have already facilitate significant investment in wind energy and a range of marine technology . we all understand that that be massively need in order to slash people ' s electricity bill , power the transport of the future and cut our emission , as well as to give we energy security so that we be not dependent on foreign despot . we have such potential for renewable energy in Wales . we have continue to develop wind energy , whereas the Tories have ban it in England . in south - west Wales , we have potential not only for onshore wind , but for offshore wind and float offshore wind . float offshore wind can be deploy far out to sea , in deep water , where the wind be strong and more electricity can be produce . we also have port such as Milford Haven and Port Talbot , which can be use both in the construction phase and in the maintenance of offshore float wind , but we face two significant danger : first , that investor do not come to that part of Wales at all ; and , secondly , that we do not maximise the opportunity for a local supply chain . as colleague and I have previously say , we have a calamitous result in last year ' s bidding process when not a single company make a bid because the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be either too inept or too stubborn to heed the industry ' s warning about need to adjust the strike price to take account of the surge in inflation . although we have no bidder for float offshore wind , the Irish work with the industry and have a very successful bidding process . then there be the complacency of the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , who effectively just say , " there ' s next time . " that be a whole year in which other country will be steal a march on we . this year , I ask the Secretary of State to work with Government colleague to ensure that we get the very good , include the scale of investment we need in float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . we need to have a number of different player take part in the process . the UK Government need to be aware of the stiff competition we face from other country around the world . the investment in our port and infrastructure have to be really attractive , as business want clear direction , certainty and incentive from the Government . when I look around and see the investment in the United States due to the Inflation Reduction Act , when I see similar initiative across Europe and when I see how country such as Oman — country that have hitherto be dependent on oil — be now invest massively in renewable and clean steel , the UK have to do more to develop a competitive edge . minister need to be cognisant that the problem for our port be that a huge investment have to be make up front before they see any return . the other great danger be that of not maximise the supply chain opportunity . we in Llanelli have a strong engineering and manufacturing tradition , and the development of offshore wind should open up supply chain opportunity , but for this we need a very clear commitment and consistency from Government on the size and the timescale for the development of float offshore wind . we need realistic support for upgrade our port , a detailed analysis of the factor that will help or hinder the development of the supply chain industry in Wales , and a proper strategy and understanding of what will make it attractive to develop such supply chain in Llanelli , Port Talbot and the surround area , rather than import component from abroad . the tragic irony be that , just as we have a tremendous opportunity with the development of offshore wind , we could see the end of steel production at the blast furnace in Port Talbot while the new electric arc furnace be still not up and run , nor be the quality of its product prove for the use we may require . another essential area of UK Government responsibility be upgrade the national grid to provide the connection and transmission to get the electricity generate to the area where it be need . I know that the Welsh Government ' s Climate Change Minister , Julie James MS , have be raise this matter . the Crown Estate ' s Celtic sea blueprint , publish this month , give a lot of detail on the component that will be need for float offshore wind , the port infra - structure require and the shipping need . the report acknowledge the value of Celsa in Cardiff as the UK ' s primary rebar supplier , but it also refer to other steelmaker . the worry be that the capacity will not be there . the report also identify a need to grow port capacity in the region , and to use it effectively . I stress that we need a join - up effort from the Government , particularly from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Department for Business and Trade , to ensure that we get the maximum benefit from this fantastic opportunity . rise — order . to protect everyone ' s time , I will introduce a formal five - minute limit . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for support this important debate , and I thank the excellent Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) . we have hear some fantastic speech across a broad spectrum . some of the old church on my island constituency of Ynys M ô n be to be find on the coast , at place like Llaneilian , St Seiriol , St Padrig and St Cwyfan , otherwise know as the " church in the sea " , by Aberffraw — it be arguably one of the most beautiful spot in Wales . the early christian community settle there because the missionary who carry the gospel to Ynys M ô n arrive by sea and build their simple church where they land . much like Dewi Sant , who we celebrate tomorrow , these missionary leave an indelible mark on Ynys M ô n and the whole of Wales . many of our place name stem from the age of the saint . the many village whose name begin with " Llan " — Llanfaethlu , Llanfachraeth , Llanddeusant , Llanbedrgoch and so many more — give we a clue to their origin . the ancient Welsh word " llan " mean a clearing in the tree where a church be build . some 1 , 500 year of the christian church ' s existence in Wales have leave a positive mark on language and culture , on history and geography , and on the value of the people , for which we have Dewi Sant and the many other missionary of the celtic age to thank . what many do not realise , however , be that we have the christian faith and a british monarch to thank for the survival of our Welsh language . in 1588 , Queen Elizabeth I , who speak Welsh , among other language , and be descend from the Tudors of Ynys M ô n , command that the Bible be translate into Welsh . that translate Bible give we the endear story of Mary Jones , whose christian faith be so important that she save for five year and walk 26 mile just to purchase a Bible in her native tongue . in the 18th century , it be the same Welsh Bible that cleric such as Griffith Jones from Llanddowror use to provide Welsh literacy skill to child and adult alike , long before the state have even contemplate building school . thus , the Bible become a key tool to teach literacy , as well as religion . the Welsh language be speak by nearly 60 % of the population of Ynys M ô n and for many it be their first language . it be the language in which most council and public sector meeting be conduct , and the language we hear speak in the street and shop of Amlwch , Llangefni and Caergybi / Holyhead . it be important to I and my constituent that we preserve our language and culture , which be why I use specially - commission bilingual head paper to write to my constituent . it be also why I have a Welsh website as well as an english one , and why I produce bilingual newsletter and use excellent local translator Alun Gruffydd , Ceri Hughes and the team at Bla translation in Llangefni when I need to . although I grow up speak English , because my father have to leave Wales to find work , I be do all that I can to promote and preserve the native language of Ynys M ô n . I continue to learn Welsh , and I read my oath of allegiance to this House in Welsh . I also support Anglesey Council ' s application for UK Government funding , for example , from the community renewal fund , which be use to promote and support the Welsh language on Ynys M ô n . above all else today therefore , Mr Deputy Speaker , Dydd g ŵ yl Dewi remind we of the impact that faith have have on Wales . much as the wind and the rain have shape the Welsh landscape , so the Christian Church have shape the character of the nation and a british Queen preserve its language . Diolch yn fawr . it be an honour to be here again on St David ' s day , Dydd g ŵ yl dewi , to discuss our separate set of circumstance , issue and problem , and to celebrate what make Wales unique , even if we each have only five minute to do so today . call for a long period of time in future would be very welcome . this debate be particularly important this week because we be stand on the threshold of the spring Budget and we all have a duty to recognise how what we do here reverberate directly and indirectly in Wales . as each of we be a representative of the fairest constituency of Wales , we have a duty to aspire to and to seek to bring about fairness and ambition for our country . that bring we to the question of what be in the gift of the UK Government specifically to do to make a real difference . what government can do be invest in what will make a material difference , and of course I would propose that invest in fair consequential for the funding allocate for HS2 would indeed make a material difference . not only be we owe about £ 3 . 9 billion from that fiasco , but the Prime Minister , in his autumn conference speech last year , promise we the electrification of the north Wales main line route for £ 1 billion . he do so despite that figure be base on a 2015 case and the Welsh Government say that no development work have be do on the project in the intervene nine year , and so I imagine that price have change . this be like the previous promise that be make of an electrify south Wales main line — thing have also go quiet on that front , with Transport Ministers reluctant to give a timeline . of course we will have hear , because we be in the run - up to an election , of plan to spend HS2 money in the midland and the north of England be detail . a second thing that would make a real material difference to Wales would be to devolve the Crown Estate , whose asset value in Wales be £ 853 million , with its marine portfolio amount to £ 603 million , two year ago . in 2020 - 21 , the estate make £ 8 . 7 million , with £ 8 . 6 million from the marine portfolio . that go directly to Treasury coffer , and 25 % go to the monarch via the sovereign grant . imagine what we could achieve in Wales with that money . devolve the Crown Estate would also give we right to offshore leasing . it would allow we to have our own green industrial strategy and save bill payer over £ 300 million each year through offshore wind , all while generate public fund for the Welsh Government to help well people ' s life . we need only look at what be evolve in Scotland , where the Crown Estate be devolve , to see what be possible . twenty project approve through offshore leasing be project to raise £ 28 . 8 billion of investment , and £ 700 million would be pass to the Scottish Government for public spending . so many of the problem that we experience could be solve by fair funding . that require review and replace the outdated Barnett formula with a system that deliver equitable fund for all part of Wales . there be several reason why the formula must be replace . first , it do not address our need ; it have not for decade . Wales ' s funding floor be not base on Wales ' s current assess need , but on estimate make by the Holtham commission in 2010 , which draw on — wait for it — 2001 census datum . secondly , the formula be not clear or transparent . when funding be announce in England , it may take week or month to find out if Wales will receive Barnett consequential funding , and if so , how much . thirdly , we all know the formula be open to political manipulation , with Wales be rob of at least £ 3 . 9 billion through HS2 funding . Northern Ireland recently receive a funding package of £ 3 . 3 billion from the UK Government to address its funding problem . if Wales be to receive an equivalent per capita funding package , it would get £ 5 . 4 billion . look ahead to the spring Budget , I hope that the Government will show , somehow or other , that they intend to tackle the deep structural problem that Wales face , but I will not hold my breath . for 14 year , Wales have have a UK Government who ignore and belittle our need , want and value , and use devolution — our democracy and our Senedd — as a political punchbag . that be bad for our democracy in the UK and in Wales , and we need to find a well way to deal with the UK as it stand . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for secure the debate , and I echo his remark on the time available to we . I be bear in Bangor . while it be my great privilege to represent Aberconwy and part of the area where I be raise , it will be my great privilege to contest the new seat of Bangor Aberconwy at the next election . my childhood be also privileged . how else could anyone describe enjoy north Wales ' s plunge valley — scramble up and occasionally roll down its rugged mountainside — and learn about its heritage , way and language ? as a result , I grow up in the firm belief that our — mine — be a community and culture to be cherish . although I have yet to put an understanding or reason to it , I know intuitively , in my bone , that people and place matter . there be also something else : a feeling share by so many whom I grow up with that I would have to leave this home and north Wales to seek opportunity , develop a career and make something of myself . that be what I determine to change , to the good of my ability , when I become an MP . number give those idea shape . the 2021 census reveal that Wales ' s Welsh - bear and working - age population be shrink . young people be leave . the population be age . fluency in Welsh be decline , as those raise speak it find that they , too , must leave . this youth drain be not evenly spread . datum from the real estate site Compare my Move reveal that 72 % of those move home in north Wales leave north Wales , but fully 61 % leave Wales altogether . Ours have the high rate of outward movement of any Welsh region . analysis by the Higher Education Statistics Agency reveal that mover be disproportionately educate . one in five Welsh - bear people leave Wales , but a full third of all Welsh graduate leave Wales . a recent report by the Wales Governance Centre identify that growth of middle to higher - earn role in Wales have remain stagnant since 2000 . the 2023 Bevan Foundation report " Poverty in Arfon in the 21st century " , commission by the hon . member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) , for which I commend he , report that 37 % of the job there be in the public sector , compare to a UK average of just 18 % . the north - west Wales economy be dominate by agriculture , tourism , hospitality , public sector employment and few well - pay job . it be characterise by long hour and hard work that be honourable — honest , even — but the picture can not be describe as one of growth and opportunity , or full of prospect for the next generation . how to respond ? the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) correctly identify a need for investment , but the last major investment in north Wales be in the Conwy tunnel nearly four decade ago . a combination of the revise responsibility of devolution and the lack of ambition and vision from the Welsh Government in Cardiff have lead to little response to the challenge . their report in 2016 identify that congestion , poor connectivity and a lack of resilience — traffic be set to increase by 2038 — represent a threat to lock in the benefit of proposal associate with the nuclear power station in Anglesey . just last year , another of their report find that propose A55 and bridge upgrade could boost investment , but it conclude that such scheme would be " inconsistent with Welsh Government ' s aim of reduce car mileage per person by 10 % " . it be the same last October . on receive news of the UK Government ' s investment in the electrification of the north Wales mainline , the response of the Welsh Government be that the scheme be not a priority for they . however , I want to conclude on a note of hope for our young people , and to give clear , real evidence of the prospect of change come down the line . the creation of a freeport in Anglesey with £ 26 million of seed funding will ensure that investment , skilled job and housing can flow into north - west Wales . an £ 80 million investment in an investment zone in Wrexham will leverage £ 1 . 7 billion more into high - value , advanced manufacturing , and the commitment of £ 1 billion to electrify the north Wales mainline carry the potential for fast journey time , high frequency of travel , cheap fare and more freight travel . that bumper investment be a huge step up in our regional competitiveness . there be nothing predetermine about decline . we be kindle the ambition that be once there in the ' 80 , expand our infrastructure , liberate and connect our community and business , and secure for our young people a future that combine both prosperity and cultural continuity . the future for our young people in north Wales be bright because of this Conservative Government , and of that I be proud . I thank the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for secure today ' s Welsh affair debate ahead of St David ' s day tomorrow . like other who have speak and will speak , I be very proud to be Welsh . I be proud of my country , my family , and the community that I represent , which be steep in true Welsh value . I see they every day — people support each other and help their neighbour , work collectively to tackle the issue affect our community . for I , that be most evident during the everyone Deserves campaign , which have become an institution , not just in Swansea East but in community across Wales , during the Easter , summer and Christmas school holiday . everyone deserve a Christmas 2023 shatter previous record , not just in the number of family that we support , but in the number of people who answer the call to turn up and help . it be always bittersweet talk about that , because although I be immensely grateful for all the support , and proud of what we achieve , it sadden I that the demand be so high , and that so many family in our community be struggle to make end meet . the cost of live in recent year have cripple household in Swansea and right across Wales . it be not only family struggle during the school holiday ; last month , we see the shocking result of a Bevan Foundation study on pensioner poverty in Wales , which find that one in 10 pensioner be skip meal , and one in five be go without heating . indeed , everyone Deserves see a rise in the number of pensioner seek help last Christmas . I will not talk about every person who help with the campaign , because there be genuinely too many , but I must mention my local hero , who show their support time and again . the Swans and the Ospreys , who be legend on the pitch — my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) might disagree — be always there , unload van , pack box and deliver hamper . the wonderful lady of the Valley Rock Voices choir , who have the voice of angel and heart of gold , raise money throughout the year , week in and week out , for everyone Deserves , and even throw impromptu concert while pack hamper to keep everyone entertain . Pentrehafod School — I remember its headmaster be bear , which be rather scary — help to launch the Christmas appeal , do bucket collection at the football , and be host we again this Christmas , so that we have space to pack the hamper . my very dear friend Mal Pope go one well this year and actually write a brand new Christmas song to raise fund for we . I have know Mal literally all my life . I be so proud of he , because he celebrate 50 year in showbusiness this year , and I be so grateful for his unwavering support . there be so many more people whom I could mention , because this really be a whole community effort . in fact , it have spread way out of my community . last Christmas , for example , we stretch even far , deliver hamper to Swansea East , Swansea West , Neath , Aberavon , Blaenau Gwent and the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) . I hope one day to be able to say , " there be few people need help this year , " and that everyone Deserves have have few referral , but I fear that may be a while away . until then , it be an honour to provide support . that support may be provide directly into someone ' s home , involve fund a play session for Swansea ' s National Autistic Society or Hands up for Downs , or even go to hold a coffee morning for the Swansea City Disabled Supporters ' Association , which tomorrow , on St David ' s day , launch the " everyone deserve a Cuppa " session . I be always proud of people ' s willingness to help each other , especially those who may need a little extra support . we be a nation who wear our heart on our sleeve — I do so more than most , probably . from the hillside to the vale , we thrive on welcome people . there will always be a welcome for people who come to our home in Wales . Diolch yn fawr , Mr Dirprwy Lefarydd , a dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus I bawb . rydw I ' n caru Cymru , yn enwedig Cwm Cynon , lle ge I fy ngeni a fy magu , ac rydw I ' n dal I fyw yno . I be just say that , like everyone else in this Chamber , I love Wales , but especially Cynon Valley , where I be bear and raise , and where I still live . in our history , our plentiful natural resource have generate vast wealth . sadly , though , the people of Cymru who create that wealth have not reap all the benefit from it . our wealth have be extract . the profit to be make , whether from coal and steel , or , increasingly , from wind and wave , have be siphon off by a tiny few , s while the many who help to create and generate it suffer poverty , hardship and inequality . this year , we commemorate 40 year since the miner ' strike , when a Tory Government take on the coal mining industry , decimate local community in south Wales in the process . although the heavy industry that define the Cynon Valley have retreat , the extraction continue in different guise . almost 3 , 000 job be under threat at the Tata steelwork in Port Talbot . in Cynon Valley , the wind farm atop our hill be own by the swedish state , and the sandstone that make up the steep valley side be extract for profit by a german multinational . this be the story of Cymru ' s past and present , but it do not have to be the story of Cymru ' s future . in recent year , we have see an unprecedented recentralisation of power in Westminster , which force through legislation that conflict with the position of the Welsh Government and the people of Cymru . today , the Senedd have vote to withhold legislative consent to the anti - boycott Bill that be pass here in Westminster . the final report of the Independent Commission on the constitutional Future of Wales last month be a landmark moment in Cymru . it conclude that " the status quo be not a viable option for provide stability and prosperity for Wales . " it propose three option : enhance devolution ; a federal structure ; and independence . the commission ' s proposal provide an opportunity for a much - need overhaul of both political and economic power for Cymru , because the prevail neo - liberal economic orthodoxy be inextricably link with current constitutional arrangement . on the economy , there be a number of demand to be make of the UK Government if it be to begin to redress the economic imbalance . they should replace the Barnett formula with a fair , need - base funding system , and secure prudential power , increase the borrowing cap and win an increase reserve for Wales . they should fund the safety of the 2 , 500 coal tip require £ 600 million of remediation work , a legacy of Welsh coal production , and ensure that the former mine worker be compensate properly , as demand by the national mineworker pension campaign . the UK Government should uphold the force - Brexit promise to Cymru , pay the Welsh Government the £ 1 . 2 billion owe and give they the rein of power on that . they should pay the billion of pound in High Speed 2 consequential . finally , they should ensure that the £ 850 million of revenue from the Crown Estate in Cymru can be use to build a Welsh sovereign fund . such measure would give Welsh Government great power to invest in big - ticket initiative to transform the economy in the long term , whether that be major renewable generation project or large - scale retrofitting of home . the independent commission ' s proposal provide the opportunity for a future Cymru where we not only generate wealth , but retain and reinvest our wealth in our community for the benefit of all , and in a way that tackle the climate crisis . this new approach of community wealth building — cymunedoli — be gain traction from Blaenau Ffestiniog in north Wales to my constituency . to conclude , none of that be possible unless we gain the involvement and confidence of the people of Cymru . the exist democratic deficit — the disconnection between conventional politic and the people of Wales — be extremely serious . democracy be not just about vote once every five year , so that we can sit in Westminster or Cardiff represent or misrepresent people ; it be about give people a voice , work collaboratively to bring about , for I , a socialist future for the people of Wales . it be a pleasure to contribute to this St David ' s Day debate , although I add my own concern about the lack of time . I be grateful , Mr Deputy Speaker , to hear you say that in future we might have long to discuss all the many important issue that face Wales . I congratulate the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) , and thank he for secure the debate and for the way in which he have chair the Select Committee . in his opening remark , he mention that we have in recent year take a broad view of the issue face Wales and its community , none more so perhaps than the change population of Wales and the demographic trend that we have witness not just recently but over decade . the hon . member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) touch on that important point . the dynamic , I be afraid , affect ceredigion just as it do his part of north Wales . it have long be the case that young people who grow up in Ceredigion leave for study or for work and seldom come back . the 2021 census report that , sadly , Ceredigion ' s overall population have decline by some 5 . 8 % , which be a remarkable figure , the large decrease anywhere in Wales . within those figure , there be a story of real change in the demographic make - up of ceredigion : few young people — child and young adult — and therefore a high proportion of the population over 65 year of age . indeed , Ceredigion have a remarkable demographic make - up , in that 13 % of its population be under the age of 15 and 25 % be over the age of 65 . that be a problem that we should be consider in both Westminster and Cardiff , because it have real consequence for the ability to deliver public service in an effective and appropriate manner . that also have something to do with the ability to ensure that we have vibrant community . I do not want — I think no one else in the Chamber would want — part of Wales , be that in west Wales or elsewhere , just to become place that shut for half the year , only come to life during the summer month . we want a vibrant economy through the year , where young people can expect to pursue exciting career in the place in which they be bear and raise . other have mention investment , and I want to touch on the importance of invest in digital connectivity as part of the solution to develop the economy of rural part of Wales . that be something I have raise in this Chamber before . sadly , Ceredigion do not have a very good record when it come to digital connectivity . access to the internet have long be an essential , not a luxury , for people in the modern age , but our access to full gigabit broadband be constrain to just 37 % of household compare with 76 % for the UK as a whole , and 10 . 7 % of household in Ceredigion receive broadband speed below 10 megabit per second — the equivalent UK figure be 3 . 6 % of household . although progress have be make in recent year , much more need to be do . not only would that help to ensure that people can access essential service , which be increasingly go online , but it could prove a bit of a boost for the local economy . I be very pleased to say that some company be look to relocate their head office to Ceredigion , in the few village and town where we do have full gigabit broadband , because , as long as they have access to the internet through a reliable full gigabit connection , they do not mind be in west Wales — in fact , it be an advantage , and that can be quite an advantage for we , too , if we be serious about develop the rural economy . in the moment that I have leave , I will make a plea to the Secretary of State , because I know that he be also keen on rural broadband . Project gigabit — the UK Government scheme — have be in existence for a few year now , but progress in rural area be still too slow . in Ceredigion , we be still wait to understand which premise will be connect in the next iteration of the scheme , and those who will not be connect will need to find alternative solution . the soon we have clarity , the well , because the quality of the life and the service that can be access by those without connectivity be much diminish . if we could have great prominence and priority for the connection of rural area , I would be very grateful . more specifically , perhaps the Secretary of State could suggest to his Cabinet colleague that they work outside - in for the next round of Project Gigabit , so that rural community be connect first . rise — order . appropriately , we have two Joneses to end the Back - Bench contribution to the debate . I call Ruth Jones . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be very pleased to be able to speak in this shorten but perfectly form debate . I pay tribute to the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for secure the debate , and to the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . this be my fifth St David ' s Day as the Member of Parliament for Newport West , and I want to use the few minute available to I to talk about what be good about Newport West and Wales . I will touch on what we need and how my community represent some of our good quality as a nation in our United Kingdom . I also take this chance to send my good wish to our First Minister , Mark Drakeford MS , who will stand down at some point in the come month . Mark have work tirelessly for Wales , often at great personal sacrifice to himself and his family . we all continue to mourn the passing of his wife , Clare . on behalf of the people of Newport West , I thank he for his service to our country and his commitment to public service . we wish he well . as you will know , Mr Deputy Speaker , Wales be the land of song , and Newport have long play a role as a beat heart for new and emerge music , include the successful Goldie Lookin Chain , an absolute favourite of my predecessor , the late Paul Flynn MP . more generally , Wales have see the prowess of Dame Shirley Bassey , Tom Jones , the Manics , Stereophonics , Feeder and Super Furry Animals — I could go on . I must not forget our hon . friend the Members for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) and for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , who have voice that be second to none . act , band and singer can not thrive unless they have space to perform , and in Newport West , I dare say that we have one of the good space in Wales : Le Pub , a welcoming , community - own independent music and art venue . it be a gem in the heart of Newport city centre , and I acknowledge the wonderful Sam Dabb , who be the inspiration , brain and hard work behind that wonderful venue . Newport West be soon to have another live music venue in the form of the 500 - seat capacity Corn Exchange . I check before the debate , and the first show will be by the band the Bug Club . before hon . member go rush to get ticket , I must tell they that it be sell out — sorry . there will be many more show and band perform there in future , however , so I encourage all member to look at the event calendar and to come and see we in Newport West to hear something a little different and to enjoy our hospitality . I would also like to acknowledge Barnabas Arts House , an independent art gallery run by Janet Martin — another venue that I encourage member to add to their bucket list . the transformative nature of art can break out of set space ; we have see that in Newport at the Place of Wonder , a collaboration of 12 artist also lead by Janet Martin , which have transform Ruperra Lane from a derelict passage to an astonishing art haven . it would take too long to name all the success in Wales that have plant their root in Newport soil , whether that be the international triumph of Tiny Rebel , the local coffee find at the Rogue Fox , or the small business of the wedding venue in the West Usk lighthouse . all be root in my constituency , and I deeply appreciate be surround by such entrepreneur and to have the chance to represent they in this place . of course , I can not miss the opportunity to give a big shout - out to the semiconductor cluster in south Wales , as well as Newport Wafer Fab and all the brilliant worker there , who be cry out for certainty , clarity and a coherent strategy from the Government . hopefully , in his wind - up today , the Secretary of State will be able to give we some positive news — we can live in hope . the past 14 year have be difficult , but I do not want to dwell on they today . instead , I will say to all the teacher , NHS staff — professional and volunteer — carer , transport worker , council officer and everyone else who live , learn and work in Newport West and Wales , " thank you for all you do to make our nation and this country what it be today . " however , I can not end my speech without mention steel . steel produce , recycle and repurpose in Wales be as Welsh as it get , from Port Talbot to llanwern and sims Metal and Island Steel in Newport West . we all want a transition to green steel production , but that must be a just transition . we need to utilise a blend of technology , because decarbonisation must not mean de - industrialisation . as we mark St David ' s day 2024 , we have the chance to champion all the great and good that make Wales what it be today ; to appreciate what we have in Wales , and acknowledge that we could have so much more . we be not far from have the chance to deliver that change with a change of Government here in Westminster . the people of Wales need it , and they deserve it too — the soon the well . I start by echo the thank give to the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for secure the debate , and to the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . today , I will focus on a small number of key issue that be face the community I represent — area where I believe this Government could be do more to help , and in some case , a lot more . the first issue I wish to raise be that of the once great Post Office , the foundation of a strong community spirit , which we in Wales be hugely proud of . in recent memory , almost every city , town and village have a local post office , once call the " front office for government " . local sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress know their customer and could offer a wide range of government , financial and postal service . post office be once the hub of every community — a trust british service that be the envy of the world and the fabric of our community — but sadly , that be now a thing of the past . we be all familiar with the truly appalling way in which the Post Office have treat its own loyal staff in the Horizon scandal , but the culture at Post Office Ltd seem to be ingrain . Post Office manager be turn their back on our community and secretly close post office without any public consultation . it be an all too familiar pattern : a sub - postmaster or sub - postmistress retire or resign . Post Office boss initially claim that the closure be temporary , and promise to update elect representative in 12 month if the branch be still closed . a whole year pass ; with vital service close , resident make alternative arrangement through necessity . Post office manager then claim that it be simply not viable to reopen the branch , as there be no customer base . be there any wonder , if a branch have be close for a whole year ? the Post Office have pull that trick in Merthyr Tydfil . five year ago , Treharris post office close when the sub - postmaster leave , and no replacement have be provide . just last week , the sub - postmaster in Pantysgallog resign , and the Post Office — which initially say that it would be a temporary closure — be force to admit that it have no plan to recruit . post office be be close , almost always permanently , and there be zero consultation with the community that use they . this arrogance from the Post Office can not continue . the Government must change the rule so that if a sub - postmaster or sub - postmistress leave and there be no plan to recruit , Post Office Ltd must consult with resident and elect representative . that be the very least that our community deserve . I also want to talk about the cost of petrol and diesel , which continue to be a major issue for people right across the country . motorist fill up their car in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney be pay considerably more than those in area just a few mile away — often as much as 10p per litre more . I have be campaign on the impact that this petrol pump rip - off be have on resident in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney , and have ask retailer to explain why price be so much high ; none have be able to provide any reasonable justification . I be afraid that , to many of my constituent , that look like price gouging , and I agree . I have encourage motorist to use app such as PetrolPrices , but with price remain comparable in the local area , there be little scope to shop around . in Northern Ireland , the Consumer Council publish a fuel price checker in September 2020 , which have help to keep fuel cost below those in Wales and England . People be continue to suffer because of the Conservatives ' cost of living crisis , and I believe that the Government must do more to ensure there be genuine competition and to end the petrol pump rip - off in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney . the last area on which I would like to focus be pension credit . as we know , the Tory cost of living crisis have hit pensioner particularly hard . it should shame the Government to their very core that almost 1 million pensioner household across the UK be estimate to be miss out on vital support from pension credit , with a staggering £ 2 . 1 billion of pension credit leave unclaimed . just think what that £ 2 . 1 billion could do for pensioner who be struggle to pay their bill . work with the citizen advice bureaux in both Merthyr Tydfil and Caerphilly , I organise a pension credit day of action , when in a single day we help people claim over £ 200 , 000 in miss benefit . just imagine what the Government could do if they really want to . minister must do well in get cash out of the Treasury and into pensioner ' pocket . Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to end by take the opportunity to wish a very happy St David ' s day — dydd G ŵ yl Dewi hapus — to you and to all those celebrate tomorrow . may I say what a pleasure it be to speak once again in this annual , if sadly truncate , debate on St David ' s Day ? I also congratulate the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) on once more putting in the leg work to make sure that we have the opportunity for such a wide - range and good - natured debate on matter Welsh . I be not intend to mention the rugby , mostly out of politeness , but the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) raise the three straight defeat . I have to say , from a scottish perspective , that we give Wales every chance in the second half , but perhaps I have well just move on . just to say that the SNP wish everyone in this House and beyond a very happy St David ' s day when it come . this be always a good opportunity to look back at history , but also to look forward . in look forward , there be no issue of great import , I would argue , to young generation than the climate , the energy transition and the economy , and we need to get all those part work together , as the hon . member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) say so powerfully in her own contribution . the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) speak about the role that the Crown Estate have to play in that . I can speak from the perspective of Scotland , and when the Crown Estate be devolve , the Scottish Government use that to forge ahead in grant licence for over 25 GW of offshore wind development , which in many respect put we at the forefront of offshore wind development globally . that be double the UK ' s exist offshore capacity , and it will create high - quality job and draw in significant investment . have that power devolve have clearly be a huge benefit in Scotland , and as the hon . member for Cynon Valley say — she do not quite say this , and I hope I be not put word in her mouth — it be beyond time that Wales be able to directly benefit from its own resource , instead of only be able to catch a little bit on the way past as those resource be export . those on the Treasury Bench sometimes get quite excited whenever that be bring up in the Chamber , but in light of the failure of the wind auction , as the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) point out , we can see why . I think this be an area where the UK Government be in danger of be on the wrong side of Welsh opinion . YouGov conduct a poll that find that 58 % of people in Wales support devolve the Crown Estate to Wales . that have also come out as a recommendation of the independent commission on the constitutional future of Wales , alongside other matter such as the devolution of justice and the devolution of railway , with a fair funding settlement to go along with they . another telling headline , at least from my perspective , from the independent commission ' s report be the willingness of that cross - party body to say that independence for Wales be a viable option for Wales ' s constitutional future . that might bring mixed reaction but I would say , from my perspective as a supporter of scottish independence , that be able to get such a group to agree on that point be a pretty positive place to be , because it show the respect there have to be between the different view on the constitutional position . too often in Scotland attempt be make to shut down debate around independence as if it be in some way too difficult or even , implausibly , unviable . the question should not be about whether this could happen , but should always be about whether it should happen ; that be a good place for a respectful debate to take place . support for independence in Wales now regularly poll at about 30 % with apparent majority support among those age under 34 , so this discussion will find itself in the public domain to a great extent in the year ahead . I have never see a poll show any more than 20 % in favour of independence . I be not about to open up my phone to look at the exact polling , but I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman after the debate to show he the figure and apologise if I be wrong or claim a pint if I be correct . on the point about the independent commission , which be a landmark moment , do the hon . Gentleman that it be really important that the commission do not pick any of those three option but instead say very strongly that it be up to the people of Wales to decide ? do he agree that that be the right way forward ? I absolutely agree with that point . the principle of consent be enshrine in the Good Friday agreement for Northern Ireland and implicit in that be that it be a decision for the people . I would argue that that be the position Scotland ought to be in — it be a position for the people — and of course it be for the people of Wales to decide how to form a Government well suit to their need and to then bring whatever pressure they can through the ballot box to bring that about . two other recommendation come out of the commission that strike I : the need to secure a duty of co - operation and parity of esteem between the government of the UK ; and that the Sewel convention ought to be strengthen . that be something on which a Labour Government in Cardiff and an SNP - lead Government in Edinburgh could probably find a lot of agreement . my party be often happy to find ourselves in agreement with the Labour party than the Labour party be to find itself in agreement with the Scottish National party , but there be example that creep up where the Scottish Labour party appear to be at variance with its colleague in Wales and I would like to use my remain time to highlight one example . when the UK Government find their record under attack , they point the finger , not always fairly I would say , at the record of the Labour Government in Wales , and in turn that Labour Government in Cardiff point a finger back about the funding settlement that be in place and it be impose by the UK Government . yet when Labour in Scotland try to criticise the Scottish Government , it seem completely oblivious , in a way its Welsh counterpart be not , to the funding stricture also in place in Scotland . I do not know whether Welsh Labour ever speak to Scottish Labour , but if they have not swipe right on each other yet , I would be more than happy to effect the introduction — I would be very happy to set up a blind date if that would be helpful . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will join I in wonder about the fact that nobody would come forward to recommend the status quo and the commission do not do so , because there be evidently no advantage to the status quo in the present devolution settlement . time be short and the right hon . Lady make her point very deftly as always , but I want to come back to the point from the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire about the propose expansion of the Senedd and the electoral system . I have to say that have multi - Member constituency be not a new thing . they exist in Northern Ireland and also in Scotland for the regional list , and they exist in local government here , and yes , of course , elect representative treat people without fear and without favour , and without regard to who anyone vote for or even if they vote at all . [ interruption . ] yes , really , and certainly that be how any elect representative worth their salt will go about thing . conservative , at least as I always understand it , use to be in favour of consumer choice and this mean voter have an element of consumer choice in term of who they wish to take their concern to , or indeed if they wish to engage the service of more than one member . there be example which I would be more than happy to discuss with the right hon . Gentleman later , because it really be not the end of the world , as he be portray it to be . it be good to see you in the Chair again for this annual debate , Mr Deputy Speaker . I also thank the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for secure the debate , and I gently echo his sentiment about the time we have for this debate today . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it and all colleague present for their contribution to what be always a wide - range debate on Welsh affair . I will mention just a few contribution . my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) talk about rugby and cockle . my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) give a great speech about rail infrastructure , renewable energy , offshore wind delay and steel . my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) be formidable , and she speak about her " everyone deserve " campaign . if she ask you to help , you dare not say no , Mr Deputy Speaker . my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) talk about our proud industrial past . my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) talk about music and culture in her constituency , and I be very much look forward to visit the Corn Exchange this weekend . my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) talk about two very important issue : post office closure , which I entirely recognise from the experience of my constituent in Cardiff Central , and the Government ' s poor roll - out of pension credit . St David ' s day be a time to celebrate Welsh heritage and national identity , and the Labour party be fiercely proud of our Welsh heritage . ever since devolution , deliver by a Labour Government , Labour - lead Welsh government have deliver positive change for the people of Wales : free prescription , free school lunch for all primary schoolchildren , the high number of nurse and consultant in the Welsh NHS for a decade , the protection of the NHS bursary , unlike in England , and a ban on fracke , unlike in England , and those be just a few . labour be the party of devolution . we be committed to reinforce the status of the Senedd . will the shadow Minister give way ? the right hon . Lady have make several contribution , so I will carry on , if she do not mind . we be committed to reinforce the status of the Senedd , strengthen intergovernmental working and push power out of Westminster and into the hand of our community . Wales be brim with potential . yesterday , pupil from my constituency from St Philip Evans Catholic Primary School in Llanedeyrn come to Parliament , and I meet they and their teacher at the end of their day here . they be fascinate by what they have see and they give I quite an enthusiastic grilling , with excellent question , but they , like all child from across Wales , include those who visit Parliament ' s wonderful education centre — I thank all the staff there for the tremendous job that they do — be our future . we all have a responsibility to make sure that they have a good future , full of the opportunity that they deserve . I be ambitious for a future fuel by the talent and innovation I have see up and down Wales . I be proud of our root in industry . industry have be our history , and it can be our future , too , but the chaos and failure of the Government risk squander that future . my hon . friend have rightly mention steel several time today . steelmaking be the lifeblood of community across Wales , the backbone of our local economy and the foundation of our manufacturing capability , and that be why the deep cut to job moot at Port Talbot be a kick in the tooth . instead of have a proper industrial strategy like Labour , Conservative Ministers have compound the risk to likelihood , fork out £ 500 million in taxpayer ' money to see up to 3 , 000 people make redundant and forfeit our ability to make virgin steel . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade — not know for diplomacy , I might add — say that Wales should consider it a win , and the Welsh Secretary say that it be mission accomplish on save Welsh steelmaking . I be afraid that that attitude show casual indifference to the thousand of people across Wales who have so much at stake here , and it show a fundamental misunderstanding of our Welsh economy and a total disregard for the need to preserve the UK sovereign steelmaking capability . however Conservative Ministers try to spin it , the loss of sovereign steelmaking be a fundamental threat to our UK economy and security — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Workington ( Mark Jenkinson ) can chunter as much as he want . however Tory Ministers try to spin it , that be the truth . the float offshore wind in the Celtic sea that we have hear about this afternoon and the new nuclear power plant at Wylfa that the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) have be beg for year after year , and which Labour member want to see , will need significant quantity of steel . where be it go to come from ? in an increasingly uncertain world , the Government be surrender our sovereign capability to build the Royal Navy ship we need to keep our shore safe and our shipbuilding industry strong . the Secretary of State have say on numerous occasion that no one will be leave behind . he talk about his role as chair of the transition board — a monument to his party ' s failure to secure the future of sovereign steelmaking in Wales . I want to put a marker down here and now . if these job loss go ahead , I will be hold he to account every single step of the way . I have see this happen before . I grow up just take a few mile from Shotton steelwork , which in 1980 , under a Tory Government , become scarred by its closure . the result loss of 6 , 500 job remain the big industrial redundancy on a single day in western Europe . it totally decimate the area . nearly everyone at my school have family who work in the steelwork or in the supply chain . the impact of those mass redundancy in our area be feel for year : all those skill and the potential of my generation waste — the rug pull from under our foot . I be deeply concerned that we will see that again , but this time in Port Talbot and right across our steel community . it be not just steel . on nuclear at Wylfa and on Newport Wafer Fab — the jewel in the crown of our high - tech south Wales cluster — the Government drag their foot while worker and their family nervously wait , job and investment go and opportunity wither . labour have a different view of how thing could be , and we have set out our plan . a UK Labour Government will invest £ 2 . 5 billion in the UK steel industry by the end of their first term — that be on top of the Government ' s earmark £ 500 million . we will increase domestic demand for steel by more than double onshore wind capacity , triple solar power and quadruple offshore wind . we will get Britain build again . a general election be come . it be an opportunity for voter to make their voice hear . my pitch to they after 14 year of Conservative Government be this : if people feel it be no long true that when they work hard they get on , if people be bored and frustrate with watch a chaotic , fail Government more focused on hold their party together than on governing , and if people feel like it be time for a change , they should look to Labour . we can build the economy of the future , create good - quality job , drive down energy bill and provide energy security , and we in Wales will play a critical role in power the whole UK through a decade of national renewal , rekindle Wales ' s proud industrial root with the industry of the future . I call the Secretary of State . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Mr Dirprwy Lefarydd , be y cyfle I ateb y ddadl heddiw . thank you for allow I to say a few thing in this St David ' s day debate , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) , the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , for bring forward the debate . let I turn straightaway to the comment make by the hon . member for Cardiff Central ( Jo Stevens ) . first , on what have actually be deliver by the Welsh Labour Government in Wales , with due respect , she leave a few thing out . she do not want to mention that the Welsh Labour Government have deliver the long waiting list in the whole of the United Kingdom . she do not want to mention that the Welsh Labour Government be now have to build air filter to blow away the diesel fume from the ambulance that wait for nine , 10 , 11 or 12 hour at a time outside Welsh hospital . she do not want to mention that the Welsh Labour Government , after more than 20 year of devolution , have deliver the low educational standard in the whole of the United Kingdom — that be accord to the OECD . she do not want to mention that the 20 mph limit be cause extra congestion in Wales . she do not want to mention that the Welsh Labour Government be damage the economy by bring in a ban on any new road be build . can I correct the right hon . gentleman ? he keep repeat this ban on all road building , which he know be not correct . if hon . member on the Government Benches want to complain about 20 mph zone , they might want to look at their own Department for Transport , which promote they , and the Tory - run council that have introduce they . the right hon . Gentleman want 20 mph in his own constituency . the organiser of the anti - 20 mph social medium group in Wales be run by a conservative councillor from Sunderland who — wait for it — have support the measure in his own patch . you could not make it up ! like all member of Parliament , I support a 20 mph limit outside school , hospital or other place where there be vulnerable people . what I have never do — and neither have the Conservative Opposition — be to support a blanket 20 mph speed limit . what I would never support be a suggestion of bring back severn bridge toll , which be put forward by a Labour council in Monmouthshire — it be in its own leaflet . what I would never do be bring forward a tax on the tourism industry , which will destroy more job in one of the most important industry in Wales . what I certainly would not do be to tell farmer that they have to put aside 20 % of their land for planting tree and other wildlife scheme dream up by people who do not know what the countryside be all about . what I would not do be spend over £ 100 million on just about the only effective job creation scheme the Senedd have ever come up with — to create dozen of extra Senedd Members . the hon . Lady and various other , include the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) , mention the independent commission , which frankly be not that independent . the commission itself express grave reservation about the closed list voting system bring forward by the Welsh Labour Government without any proper discussion with the public upon whom it will be visit . the hon . Lady want to talk about steel , so I suggest that she stop give false hope to steelworker in Port Talbot , or suggest that this have come about as a result of a Government decision . the hon . Lady make a few comment that be simply factually incorrect ; I might need to educate she a little about how steel be produce . first , there be no sovereign capability to make steel in a blast furnace , because every single bit of iron ore be buy in from abroad , as be all the coke , not least because the hon . Lady ' s party want to shut down all coalmine because of concern about the climate emergency . there be no possibility of virgin steelmaking because all the ingredient come from abroad . secondly , as far as I be aware , none of that steel be be use by the Royal Navy , but steel be be produce for the Royal Navy in the United Kingdom — from Sheffield Forgemasters , and it come out of an electric arc furnace . Labour say that it have a plan for steelworker in Port Talbot . I actually visit Mumbai about two week ago and speak to the global head of Tata , and the head of Tata Steel . they make it very clear that no such plan be put to they by the shadow Front Bench team . there be no plan that they be look at . the reason that they be shut down those two blast furnace be that they be lose over £ 1 million a day . the only plan that they be go to consider be insolvency , and pull out of steelmaking in the United Kingdom all together . the plan that the Government come up with be not a plan of give half a billion pound to fire 3 , 000 people ; the Government be present with a situation where Tata come in with insolvency practitioner and say , " we be pull out of the United Kingdom . " have it do so , it would have cost 8 , 000 job and 12 , 000 more in the supply chain . the Conservative Government , which I be proud to be serve , come up with a scheme whereby we put half a billion pound towards build an arc furnace — a scheme that will save 5 , 000 job and a supply chain . it be absolutely wrong and misleading to suggest that we have give a steel company half a billion pound to fire 3 , 000 people , when we have give they half a billion pound to save 5 , 000 job , and to ensure that steel continue to be make in Wales . the danger be that the hon . Lady ' s word be be hear by Tata in India . many people there will be think to themselves , " do we actually want to continue invest in the United Kingdom if we can ' t be certain that any deal we have will continue if there be a different government ? " the hon . Lady ' s word be also go to be see by worker in Port Talbot , who may be think to themselves that there be some secret plan that could save their job . there isn ' t . if the hon . Lady do a little bit of research , she will find out very quickly that there be no plan C . there be a plan A , which would have shut the steelwork and cost every job , or a plan b , which save 5 , 000 job . the hon . Lady do not mention anything about the £ 100 million transition fund . the Government be not go to turn their back on worker in Port Talbot . the Government have £ 100 million set aside to make sure that every single person who lose their job have access to the training they need to get further employment . the Government have save job and be stand by the people of Port Talbot . I really hope she will find out a little bit more about it before try to comment far . I be also very proud of the work that the Government have be do to level up across the rest of Wales . under this Conservative Government , we have be responsible for four growth deal , three round of level - up funding , two investment zone , two freeport — include one in Port Talbot , which will encourage more industry to come in — the electric arc furnace , and the £ 1 billion project to electrify the north Wales coast main line . the Government have be do an enormous amount to put money into Wales . follow Brexit , the Government promise that farmer would not lose out by one single penny as a result of our leave the European Union . we calculate what agriculture be get during the last control period — it be about £ 337 million a year — and we make sure that that money continue to be deliver . it be very disappointing , therefore , that the Welsh Government have decide to take that money and plough it into a scheme that will reduce the amount of land available for grow agriculture , increase food mile , and throw 5 , 000 people out of work . yes — there will be 5 , 000 job loss on the Welsh Government ' s own figure as a result of the agricultural scheme that the hon . Lady ' s party ' s Government be plan to bring in . I will just mention one or two other point in the last minute or so I have leave . the hon . member for Ceredigion ( Ben Lake ) mention gigabit connection . I agree with he that we need certainty on where they will be and that there be challenge in rural area , but I would point out that in 2019 about 11 % of property have a gigabit connection and that have now increase to 69 % . the work be go on at pace . the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) make a very good point , as do the hon . member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , about the cost of living . I be not decry anything the hon . Lady have do , because she do do a lot of good work , but I again point out that this Government have ensure that pension and benefit have all go up in line with inflation . the living wage have go up in line with inflation . there have be extra payment to pensioner and to those on benefit , and also to those in house with a disability . that be not to say that that solve all problem . the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney also rightly draw attention to the fact that some company be perhaps not behave as they should on petrol price . I agree with he . the Government be follow up the recommendation of the Competition and Markets Authority to bring forward a scheme to provide extra transparency . I think I have only about six second leave , unfortunately ; hopefully , a little more time will be allocate to we next time . I apologise to anyone I have not mention , although I be certainly not go to forget my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) , who continue to champion nuclear . I will continue to work with member of Parliament and many other to ensure that the float offshore wind industry go ahead . I also wish Members Dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus I chi gyd — a happy St David ' s day to you all . Diolch yn fawr iawn . I thank all member who participate this afternoon in what have be a very good debate . I be particularly grateful to fellow member of the Select Committee who join I in the application to the Backbench Business Committee . we thank that Committee for grant the debate . we look forward to future St David ' s Day debate that be perhaps long and more expansive . I be particularly encourage to hear the speech from the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , which highlight the opportunity for Wales of float offshore wind . for a nation like Wales , which do not see many new industrial opportunity come along , that be the opportunity the UK Government and the Welsh Government together should be seize . we look forward to some good news , hopefully , from the Secretary of State and his colleague on port funding in Milford Haven and Port Talbot to help capture all the economic benefit that that new industry could bring to our community . thank you again , Mr Deputy Speaker , for chair this St David ' s Day debate . Dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Welsh affair . let I just say , before everyone leave , that I have hear very clearly what have be say about the time constraint that all member have to endure during the debate . I have chair a few Backbench Business debate in the past that have finish early , but if this debate have be allow more time , it would clearly have go the distance , and people would have have the opportunity to say far more thing . I will raise that with Mr Speaker tomorrow . let I also say that I be at St Margaret ' s Church yesterday for the memorial service for John Morris , Lord Morris of Aberavon . not only be it a wonderful service , but hear the London Welsh Male Voice Choir boom out " Calon L â n " make I feel incredibly proud to be Welsh . it have be an honour and a privilege to chair the debate , and I end by say : dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus I bawb . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . during the statement on the security of elect representative early today , I make a measured contribution on the need to protect not only mps but the public ' s right to peaceful protest . the Minister for Security appear to lose control of himself , and say in his response to I that I support organisation that would " close this Parliament " or " end our democratic process " . the code of conduct for member of Parliament state : " member shall never undertake any action which would cause significant damage to the reputation and integrity of . . . its member generally . " Mr Deputy Speaker , how can you ensure that the code be adhere to by Ministers during difficult discussion ? how I can put on the record the fact that I do not support organisation that would close this Parliament or end our democratic process , and that that be not the goal of organisation such as those that be lobby mp and protest in Parliament Square last Wednesday ? People be legitimately protest about hundred of thousand of casualty , include and 30 , 000 death , in Gaza in recent month . I find what be say particularly offensive , insensitive and inappropriate , give that much of the House ' s time today have be take up by issue relate to abusive language , and threat to member of Parliament , and to woman specifically . I be not in the Chair at the time , and indeed the Chair be not responsible for the content of Members ’ speech , but the hon . Lady have expertly put her view on the record , and I know that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear what she say and will pass it on to the Minister . young adult with Spinal Injuries Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn — ( Mr Gagan Mohindra . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to open this debate , which I seek on behalf of my late constituent Tom Lazarides and his family , some of whom be present in the Public Gallery . Tom be a 20 - year - old student at Durham University when , on 13 June 2020 , he dive into a swimming pool and suffer a catastrophic spinal cord injury that leave he paralysed . in preparation for the debate , I reread an interview that Tom ' s mother Bridget give to a newspaper in October 2020 . in that interview , Bridget speak about her talented , sporty son , about how love he be by all who know he , and about the overwhelming outpouring of support for he from across the country . Bridget ' s interview be also full of determination — Tom ' s determination and her — and hope that , despite the devastating nature of his injury and the many challenge that he face , with the love and support of his family and friend and good treatment and care , somehow Tom would be okay . I be sorry to report to the House that Tom Lazarides sadly pass away in November 2023 . Tom and his family be devastate by his injury . instead of help they to come to term with what have happen , and enable Tom to live as well as possible with his injury , the system that should have be there to support he fail utterly to deliver the care that he need . Tom ' s spinal cord be permanently injure in two place . he be tetraplegic as a consequence , and have many health complication . he have a potentially fatal condition call autonomic dysreflexia , which cause unpredictable and dangerously high spike in blood pressure . his skin be very fragile , lead to grade 4 bedsore . he have a tracheostomy , lead to communication difficulty . he be unable to cough , lead to repeat inhalation of food particle , which cause pneumonia and pulmonary oedema , and he suffer from muscular complication . Tom have spend 18 month in hospital , include a year of rehabilitation at Stoke Mandeville . his injury be permanent and unequivocal . they be well understand by his doctor , and be fully and properly document . the injury give rise to a need for ongoing clinical care from qualified nurse , which could not possibly have be deliver by local authority social care . Tom be discharge from Stoke Mandeville in the autumn of 2021 . under the policy of discharge to assess , he be refer for consideration for NHS Continuing Healthcare funding . accord to the NHS , eligibility for Continuing Healthcare funding be determined on the basis of a person ' s need , rather than a particular diagnosis . there should be no limit on the setting where it can be provide or the type of support , and it be determine accord to an assessment by the local NHS integrate care board . the assessment comprise two part : the NHS continue care checklist , which can be complete by a nurse , doctor , other healthcare professional or social worker , follow by a full assessment undertake by a multidisciplinary team . Tom ' s assessment be complete in January 2022 . his family raise concern with I that the assessment process appear to start with a blank sheet of paper and do not take into account anything that be already know about Tom ' s injury and their impact on his health . for example , he be ask by an assessor whether he get around the house on a Zimmer frame , and to show that he could not use his hand when he be clearly tetraplegic . his family be leave with the constant impression that no one involve in the assessment , or in review the decision later in the process , have ever properly read Tom ' s medical record . in May 2022 , a decision be reach that Tom be not eligible for Continuing Healthcare funding . for Tom and everyone who know he , the decision be as astonishing as it be devastating . Tom ' s level of clinical need be crystal clear . as Tom ' s mother have say to I on a number of occasion , all that need to happen be for Tom ' s very clear medical note to be read . Tom ' s family appeal the decision . the process be beset by difficulty , include change of personnel at the case manager level , record be lose and constant delay . Tom find the visit to his home intrusive , and they have a detrimental impact on his already fragile mental health . there be no prescribed timescale for the assessment and appeal , and no clear point of contact for Tom and his family to liaise with during the process . Tom and his family feel that there be constant pressure for he to move to a care home , despite the study publish by Professor Brett Smith 12 year ago , which document the very poor outcome for young adult with spinal cord injury who live in care home , arise from their lack of agency in the decision to move to the care home , the shortage of properly skilled and qualified staff who can meet the need of resident with spinal cord injury , the lack of independence , and isolation . Tom be a bright young person with so much to contribute . what he want and need be care and support at home , so that he could live well with the consequence of his spinal cord injury . in the last few month of his life , Tom repeatedly express a wish to end it . he simply could not see a positive future , when the struggle to access the care and support he need be so difficult . Tom Lazarides ' family have ask I to raise a number of issue that arise from his experience , which indicate the way in which the healthcare system be simply not work for young adult with spinal cord injury . the first be the discharge to assess policy . discharge to assess be not design for people with a catastrophic injury . what may be appropriate for a frail , elderly person who have have an emergency hospital admission , give rise to concern about their care need at home , or for someone with a progressive condition that may be reach the point at which more care be need , be simply not appropriate for someone with a catastrophic permanent injury . it give rise to a lack of continuity from hospital to home , and require the person to be assess by people who do not have the same detailed or specialist knowledge of their need as the hospital clinician who have be care for they as an in - patient . the second concern be that the patient have no involvement in decision about their care . Tom be clear and consistent that he do not want to live in a care home . he be a bright and articulate young man whose paralysis should not have result in the removal of all agency in his own life , yet the complete decision support tool , the first stage in the assessment process , be submit without be check by Tom or his family . panel meeting take place in a context of secrecy — about their membership , the date and time of meeting , and the content of discussion . a system be not deliver patient - centre care when the patient be completely shut out of the decision - make process . the third concern be the lack of any certainty or transparency about the timeline for decision making . the process relate to Tom ' s care take year , and the lack of continue healthcare support have a profound impact on his day - to - day life during that time . Tom and his family simply have no idea when they would have any news about the next step . everyone , the Lazarides family include , be acutely aware of the pressure on our health and social care system and the need to ensure value for money for the public purse , as well as ensure safe , appropriate and high - quality care for individual who need it . Tom ' s case , however , be not a matter of resource . in the end , follow the appeal , the ICB decide that he be eligible for continue healthcare funding . the tragedy be that his family be only informed of this after he have die . it be devastating for any young person to suffer a spinal cord injury that have life - change consequence but , with the right care and support , it be possible to live a good life with independence and dignity . depression be not inevitable , but poor mental health be sadly all too common . Tom Lazarides and his family encounter a system that seem incapable of deliver the safe , appropriate , high - quality care and support that he need and be entitle to . as a consequence , they spend the two year from Tom ' s discharge from Stoke Mandeville Hospital in the autumn of 2021 to his untimely death in the autumn of 2023 constantly fight a system that ultimately fail they . what attention be the Minister pay to the experience of young adult with spinal cord injury and the quality of care that they be able to access ? what action be she take to ensure that the quality and availability of care for young adult with spinal cord injury be consistent across the country ? will she look at the policy of discharge to assess and its appropriateness for patient with a sudden and permanent life - change injury ? will she look at the assessment process for continue health - care funding and take step to ensure that a patient ' s exist healthcare record always play an integral part ? finally , will she take step to ensure that the assessment process for continue healthcare funding have increase transparency and accountability , and increase certainty on the timescale and decision - make process ? no one who read the fact of Tom Lazarides ' s injury and subsequent health need could be in any doubt that he need long - term nursing care to be safe and to live well with the consequence of his injury , yet the tragedy of his injury be compound by the failure of our healthcare system to deliver the care that he need , or indeed to treat he and his family with respect and dignity . Tom ' s family have ask I to raise his case , in order to press for accountability and for improvement for other . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I thank the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for secure this debate and for her powerful speech tell we about Tom Lazarides ' s experience , his tragic accident and his injury . I welcome his family , who the hon . Lady say be here in Parliament today . I offer they my sincere condolence on the loss of Tom , who sadly die in November 2023 . I listen carefully to the hon . Lady ' s speech , although I do not have advance sight of her comment , and I will do my good to respond . I assure she that I be happy to write to she with further detail about the point she have raise this afternoon . I be respond as the Minister with oversight of continue healthcare and discharge , so I will be able to say more on those point . particularly in she sum up , she talk more generally about care for people with spinal injury , which can have such a devastating impact and can mean that a person need a great deal of care from multidisciplinary NHS team . I could go into the way NHS England commission service for spinal cord injury — there be a national specification and a range of support — but I think I could make well use of the time today by pick up on the question of continue healthcare and the discharge situation , which the hon . Lady outline . she describe how Tom ' s family feel that the system fail he and his clearly complex health need as a result of his injury . she describe the long time he spend in hospital and the long - term rehabilitation he need , which mean he need significant ongoing clinical care . she describe how he be consider for continue healthcare and the experience of the eligibility assessment , and how Tom and his family feel it do not take into account his injury and health condition , and do not take full account of his medical record . she describe how he and the family be then tell that he be not eligible . they subsequently and rightly appeal , and I hear how difficult the hon . Lady say that process clearly be for the family and for Tom , with the lack of transparency , the uncertainty , and the feeling that meeting happen without they and their involvement . I hear how Tom feel under pressure to move into a care home , when he really want to live well at home . all of we can completely understand that . anyone , whether a young person such as Tom or someone of old age , want to live as independently as possible , whatever their health need at home . I also hear about the experience with discharge to assess . clearly , a process be in place for access NHS continue healthcare . the intention of the process be to consider the individual ' s clinical need , the combination of those need and how they come together , and therefore to assess whether somebody be eligible . the intention be to design a package of care around the individual to support they where they wish to live , be it at home or in a care home . first , a checklist be use , which lead to someone have an eligibility assessment . if I understand it correctly , Tom experience and go through the eligibility assessment , but , as the hon . Lady mention , the initial decision be that he be not eligible . I be happy to make some inquiry . as a Minister , I can not make a call on any particular decision that be make on an individual , but clearly I want always to be assure that the right process have be follow . it be probably helpful if , with the help of official , I try to seek some further information outside the Chamber from the hon . Lady to see what I can do to understand fully what happen and to be assure as to whether there be anything we need to do to make the process work well , particularly in the circumstance that she have describe , where somebody such as Tom have clearly have some severe injury . I be also happy to meet she and Tom ' s family to understand this process well . the hon . Lady raise a point about discharge to assess and how it do not work for someone with a catastrophic injury . again , we should pick that up in a conversation outside the Chamber . in general , the purpose of discharge to assess be a good one : to avoid people have long and unnecessary stay in hospital , where we know that frail and elderly people , in particular , be likely to decondition and live less independently as a result . she know that well from the work that she do on social care . once somebody have be discharge home , they be often able to live with more independence and regain mobility in a way that be not clear when they be assess in hospital . sometimes assessment in hospital will lead to delay and a long stay in hospital , and to what be call over - prescription , with somebody end up live long in a care home when they might have continue at home . in general , discharge to assess be a good thing but , as I say , I be happy to look into the specific question of whether there might be circumstance , such as when somebody have have a very serious injury , when the process work differently . I will take that away . the hon . Lady make a point about the involvement of patient in decision about their care . it be fundamental that patient should be involve in decision about their care , as should family and carer . in many circumstance , the patient and those around they will be the expert on what they will need . they need to be involve in the ramification of whatever decision be make . that should take place , but let we investigate far outside the Chamber whether that be work as it should be , together with the point she make about transparency and try to ensure that people be involve when continue healthcare be be assess and consider . I receive a significant amount of correspondence about continue healthcare . the NHS have a challenging job to ensure that the decision go the right way . I know the process can be long and hard for those involve in it . I want to ensure it work as well as it possibly can , so that those who should be eligible receive such care . I understand in Tom ' s case that , after the appeal , the decision be make that he should be receive continue healthcare . how sad that that come after his death and after all the suffering that he and those close to he must have go through . I thank the hon . Lady for bring Tom and his family ' s situation to my attention . I commend she for her powerful speech and how clearly she put across the concern . I look forward to speak about this further outside the Chamber . I pass on the deep condolence of everybody here at the House of Commons to Tom ' s family , friend and all who mourn his passing . it be a very moving speech . question put and agree to . House adjourn .