Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — High Street Businesses what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support high street business . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support high street business . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support high street business . revitalise our high street be a priority for this Government , and I and the Secretary of State have speak to colleague across Whitehall to ensure that we be work together to create well condition over the long term for high street business to thrive . that mean address antisocial behaviour and crime , roll out banking hub , stamp out late payment , empower community to make the most of vacant property , strengthen the post office network , reform the apprenticeship levy and , as the Chancellor confirm yesterday , reform business rate . there be just short of 5 , 500 business in Sheffield Central , and more than 80 % of they be micro - business employ few than 10 employee . these be the engine of local economic growth in our area , and they provide vital service in our community . many business in my constituency welcome yesterday ' s announcement of permanently low business rate for hospitality , retail and leisure property from 2026 - 27 . will the Minister outline what further step he be take with the Chancellor to create a fairer business rate system , so we can ensure that our high street thrive permanently ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and I think this be the first time I have have the chance to congratulate she on her election to this House . she be absolutely right that if we be to see our high street thrive , we need to ensure there be a genuinely level playing field for business online and those on the high street . as the Chancellor announce yesterday , to deliver that pledge we intend to introduce permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure property from 2026 - 27 . to fund that , we intend to introduce a large business multipli from 2026 - 27 , which will apply a high rate on the most valuable property . that will capture the majority of large distribution warehouse , include those use by the online giant . however , we want to go far , so the Chancellor publish a discussion paper yesterday ask business for further idea on the reform of business rate . small and independent shop be the lifeblood of our high street , and they make the community in my Ashford constituency special . far too many high street business have be feel the squeeze over recent year , which have lead to empty unit be an all too familiar sight . I welcome the measure announce in yesterday ' s Budget , particularly the reform of business rate . will my hon . friend update the House on what the Government be do to empower local community to acquire empty unit ? again , I congratulate my hon . friend on his election to this House . colleague across Whitehall be bring forward plan to introduce high street rental auction , which will bring vacant unit back into use . that should make town centre more accessible and affordable for tenant . we will also take step to crack down on antisocial behaviour . we see a huge increase in antisocial behaviour and crime in our high street under the conservative party , and we be determined to take step to crack down on that . I thank my hon . friend for his previous answer . we be bless with some fantastic high street in Hendon , such as Mill Hill Broadway , Station Road and the High Street in Edgware , Watling Avenue in Burnt Oak , Brent Street in Hendon and Vivian Avenue in West Hendon . however , when I talk to business owner , they all too often tell I that they be struggle to find and retain the staff they need to grow successfully . what step be the Department take to make sure small business can get the skilled staff they need not just to survive , but to thrive ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question , and I know the high street in his constituency that he mention , as they be very close to Britain ' s great constituency . he will be aware that we have already take step to help business recruit more skilled staff . it be one of the reason why we have establish Skills England . we have also take step to reform the apprenticeship levy , and early this week the Prime Minister bring forward plan to help people get back to work . the anti - growth coalition on Mid Sussex district council , lead by the Lib Dems , labour , independent and Greens , be bring in Sunday , bank holiday and evening town centre parking charge on top of a 30 % rise , and there be the sword of Damocles of possible village car parking charge . will the Minister reiterate to council that be determined to derail his growth mission that such draconian measure on our high street will do exactly the opposite of what he and his Budget be apparently look to achieve , and will he perhaps meet they ? I gently suggest to the hon . Lady that those make up the anti - growth coalition be sit on her side of the House , and I gently point out to she that the high number of business to go bust for 30 year be under the conservative party last year . I would also happily ask she to use her influence with the Conservative - lead council in my constituency , which be bring in parking charge that will certainly damage the night - time economy . I welcome some thing that the Minister have refer to regard high street business , and I thank he for that , but there be many other matter . for example , in Newtownards family business make up a great many of the attractive high street business , such as Wardens , Knotts Bakery and the family butcher , and they be important , as they be in Ballynahinch . have the Minister have the opportunity to talk to the chamber of trade in Newtownards , which be work well ? other chamber of trade in my constituency can also contribute , so have there be an opportunity to speak to they to get their idea about the way forward ? the hon . Gentleman be an assiduous champion for his constituency in this House . if he want to bring his chamber of commerce to meet I to discuss issue in his constituency in more detail , I will happily make time to meet he and they . we be 10 minute go and still on Question 1 . we need to speed up a little bit . if the Minister could look at I , that would be helpful , so that we be go through the third person . I know that Mr Shannon be popular , but even so , it should go through I . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in my constituency , the number of people shop on our high street have not return to pre - covid level , and we have lose anchor store such as Marks & Spencer , and several bank . the Government urgently need to save our high street , but the reduction in retail , hospitality and leisure business rate relief from 75 % to 40 % will come as bad news for thousand of business . when will the Government deliver a fundamental reform of business rate to save our high street and end the penalising of productive investment ? I be grateful for your guidance , Mr Speaker . while the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be popular , you be much more important . I gently point out to the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) that we have start the process of reform business rate . we be introduce permanently low rate for retail , hospitality and leisure from 2026 - 27 . we have listen to business and keep business rate relief , and we be open up opportunity for business to come forward with idea for future reform of business rate . Sectoral Collective Bargaining if he will take step to increase the use of sectoral collective bargaining . the Government be commit to strengthen the collective voice of worker and restore the principle that work should always pay . that be why we introduce the Employment Rights Bill , which will restore the school support staff negotiate body and introduce a framework for a fair pay agreement in adult social care . combine with other measure in the Bill , that will empower worker , union and employer to come together to negotiate fair pay , term and condition . I thank the Minister for that answer . it be fantastic of the Labour Government to bring in the Employment Rights Bill within their first 100 day — an absolutely brilliant achievement . expert say that sectoral bargaining be a force to be reckon with for both employee and employer , so what plan might the Government have to extend sectoral collective bargaining in other sector of the economy ? my hon . friend be right to say that there be plenty of evidence worldwide that collective bargaining improve term and condition and the overall vitality of the economy , but we must start somewhere . about 5 % of the entire work population be employ in adult social care , and with a 25 % turnover rate and rampant abuse of zero - hour contract and the minimum wage law , we feel that that sector need the most attention first . we must make a concerted effort to drive up working condition , because those who work in that area have be undervalue and underappreciate for far too long , and that have to change . we must focus on get it right in adult social care , and we will see where that take we . undoubtedly , Government legislation be empower the union — we see that this week when the Secretary of State for Scotland be unable to meet CBI Scotland , an important body , because he could not enter his own building because of a picket line . we read in the paper this morning that ASLEF , a rail union , insist on use fax machine and will not allow its member to use email . how be that help collective bargaining ? I have to educate the hon . member on what trade union do . ASLEF be not a union in the adult social care sector , which be what we be talk about here . we want to work on a tripartite basis — business and worker , together with the Government — to get term and condition right . give that we have the low increase in living standard on record under the Conservative Government , I would have think that he would want to support that too . I call the shadow Minister . the Government ' s impact assessment for the adult social care sector confirm that collective bargaining will be very costly for business . if pay award match those of junior doctor , the cost of the increase wage bill will be £ 5 . 8 billion , drive up business rate , reduce employment or hour , and impose further cost on business . can the Minister confirm when further collective bargaining will be roll out , to which sector , and by how much those business can expect to be clobber ? if the shadow Minister be complain about the state of the adult social care sector , he should look to his own party and how the sector be leave to rot for 14 year . the impact assessment say that the overall cost to employer will be 0 . 4 % overall and , as the economic analysis say , the make work pay package will help to raise living standard across the country and create opportunity for all . I think 0 . 4 % be a fantastic achievement to get such a deal . if he do not want to support improve working condition for people , an end to fire and rehire and well maternity protection , he should continue to vote against the Employment Rights Bill , but I do not think his constituent will thank he for that . Industrial Strategy what recent progress he have make on develop a new industrial strategy . we have make significant progress in develop a new industrial strategy and I be delighted to report to the House that we publish a Green Paper on 14 October , set out our plan for a modern industrial strategy . we have set our sight high than the previous Government , we have throw off their ideological shackle and we have work in partnership with business and our colleague across the nation and region to set we on a path to a credible 10 - year plan , deliver the certainty , drive and ambition that business need to invest in the UK . for 14 year , business in rural community such as my constituency be ignore and neglect by the Conservatives in government . will the Minister elaborate on how the industrial strategy will allow rural community to share in the proceed of growth ? the difference between a Labour Government and a Conservative Government be that we believe that growth need to be feel in our community , not just measure on a spreadsheet . I know that my hon . friend be work hard in his constituency and be already campaign on issue such as banking service , which be so important for our rural community . he be right : the industrial strategy need to be design and implement in lockstep with local leader , mayor and devolve leader across the country , alongside our wide plan for housing and skill , which of course will be part of the picture . I look forward to work with he on identify the barrier to growth in rural community so that we can break they down . the development of marine renewable energy be get close to commercial deployment . if we be able to get it across the line , it will bring with it a supply chain that we can build and hold in this country , with a view to export across the world . that would surely be a great result for any industrial strategy . what will the Government do to ensure that their industrial strategy help marine renewable reach full commercial deployment ? the right hon . Gentleman make a really good point , and I would be happy to have a proper conversation with he about it . Marine renewable be a huge opportunity for we . we can build the supply chain across the country and , of course , Scotland be uniquely place to take advantage of that . I would love to have a conversation about it . when it come to an industrial strategy , in the Labour Government ' s first few month they have effectively shut down UK virgin steelmaking capacity , with no commitment to primary steel in yesterday ' s Budget of broken promise . unlike the United States and the European Union , the Government have fail to protect our car manufacturer against chinese state aid . they have massively increase the cost to the very driver of industry — real business — of employ people . should the Government not call it their deindustrialisation strategy ? the challenge we have be that we have inherit the bad living standard growth during a Parliament in modern history . we have inherit huge challenge that we have to overcome , but we be look to the long - term with our industrial strategy — [ interruption . ] order . I do not need any more . do we understand each other ? I do not know whether the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) have be pay attention , but we be develop a steel strategy , which the previous Government fail to do , with £ 2 . 5 billion of funding . we put a boost of £ 2 billion into our car industry only yesterday in the Budget , alongside £ 1 billion for the automotive sector and money for life science . we be develop an industrial strategy for the long term for the first time and we will not follow the conservative party , which let our industry suffer and get to the crisis point that we be now have to deal with . the Minister mention the car industry . yesterday , after the Budget of broken promise , talk about the industrial strategy , Mike Hawes of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders say : " deliver that strategy depend on the UK be globally competitive . Additional National Insurance Contributions will put massive pressure on the automotive supply chain which be predominantly sme . " he describe the lack of substantive measure to support the new car market as " hugely disappointing " , conclude that , " the cost will soon be feel in reduce UK investment , economic growth and job . " with such dire warning so early on , be this not more evidence that Labour just do not get business and that its industrial strategy be in tatter before it have even begin ? for a Government who do not get business , it be surprising , be it not , that we get £ 63 billion of investment through the international investment summit — twice what the previous Government manage after two year of plan it ? the Government be work very closely with the automotive industry . we know that the global situation be very difficult and I talk to Mike Hawes very often , which be why we put £ 2 billion of funding into the Budget yesterday . it be also why we be work very closely with the sector to create the condition we need to transition to electric vehicle and to protect our industry in a way that the previous Government , frankly , fail to do . e - bike Battery Fires what recent step he have take to help prevent e - bike battery fire . the Office for Product Safety and Standards within my Department have be work across government and industry to protect consumer and understand the cause of any safety issue . that have include give consumer clear information that enable they to purchase , use and charge product safely ; assess the compliance of manufacturer and importer to ensure that product be safe when place on the market ; and a programme of work to address the sale of non - compliant product available through online marketplace , include e - bike and their battery . last week , I visit the OPSS ' s Teddington laboratory , where we launch the Department ' s new " Buy Safe , be safe " consumer campaign . two week ago , there be a fire in a 10th floor flat in Plaistow in my constituency . thankfully , the quick reaction of the resident and neighbour and the good work of the London Fire Brigade mean that they be all able to be evacuate quickly and there be no serious injury . clearly , this could have be bad . do the Minister agree that it be a perfect example of why we need to continue to work to make these battery safe and run awareness campaign , so that resident understand the safety issue and how they can be mitigate , and how the battery can be dispose of if they need to get rid of they ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . manufacturer must already ensure that product be safe and provide instruction for safe use , include safe charging . I pay tribute to the London Fire Brigade for the work it be do on this issue . unfortunately , as we have hear , there be far too many fire . that be why we launch our awareness campaign last week . we be hope , through the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , to make sure we have power to keep up with technological development and ensure that e - bike can be sell safely to consumer in the UK . make work pay Programme what progress his Department have make on deliver the make work pay programme . as the Chancellor announce yesterday , the national living wage will rise to £ 12 . 21 an hour , mean that a full - time worker can earn an extra £ 1 , 400 a year . we have also announce the stopping of the use of minimum service level and tackle late payment for the self - employ . of course , we have now introduce the Employment Rights Bill , which will raise living standard across the country and provide well support for business engage in good practice . it also make good on our promise to the british people that we will now make work pay . I thank the Minister for his answer . in my constituency of Watford , many people be employ in the hospitality , retail and construction sector and , with a big hospital , in the health and social sector . will the Minister confirm that the Government ' s make work pay plan will bring long - last benefit to they and to other worker ? absolutely . we be determined to ensure that the particular sector that my hon . Friend mention , where low pay and insecurity be rife , will benefit . we be work closely with business and employer across the spectrum to ensure that we get the proposal right because , for too long , insecurity and low pay have be rife in the UK economy . that have to change . I call the shadow Minister . after receive million from the trade union paymaster for its election , Labour be reward they with a package of 1970 , french - style workplace regulation , which will increase the cost of do business in the UK to the tune of £ 5 billion a year , disproportionately fall on sme . that be before the £ 25 billion body blow to business deliver by the Chancellor yesterday in her anti - business Budget of broken promise . do the Minister agree with the Office for Budget Responsibility that this Government ' s decision will make worker poor , not rich , as increase employment taxis be pass on in low wage , and that business investment will fall , not rise , as a direct result of this Government ? I find it incredible that the opposition quote french - style labour law , because when they introduce the minimum service legislation , they always hold up France as the example of where that work already . I wish they would make their mind up . the implication behind the question about trade union funding say rather more about their attitude to how legislation be make in this country than our . we do thing because we believe in they . if he look carefully at what the OBR be say , £ 1 , 400 into people ' s pocket as a result of the national living wage increase be a fantastic achievement that we should all be proud of . small Businesses : scale up what step he be take to help support small business to scale up . what step he be take to help support small business to scale - up . our plan for small business will help they to scale up and increase productivity and growth . we be do that by create opportunity for business to compete and access the finance they need to scale , export and break into new market . furthermore , at yesterday ' s Budget , we announce a small business Command Paper next year , which will set out more detail on how we will support small business . I welcome the Minister ' s answer . one way that we can support small business to scale up be through infrastructure investment , so that business can get their good to market more quickly . will the Department support my campaign to shift more freight from truck to train , start with the channel tunnel in my constituency , where only 10 % of its freight capacity be be use at present ? let I take the opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend on his election to this House . I remember well , as I be sure he do , the problem that the people and business of Kent have to endure when the M20 become a lorry park , thank to a combination of poor planning by the last Government and the poor - quality trade deal they negotiate with Brussels . we certainly support the expansion of rail freight , not least as it help to build the resilience of supply chain . I would be happy to meet he or facilitate a meeting for he with Transport Ministers , to hear more about his campaign . small business such as the Greek Corner in Shipley have benefit from Bradford council ' s business growth programme , fund by the town fund , which provide capital assistance for business to create new job . the support measure announce yesterday in the Chancellor ' s Budget for local authority and small business will be vital to revitalise our high street . do the Minister agree that local authority work with local community be well place to direct investment , to help sme grow ? let I take this opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend on her election , too . I agree that local authority work with local community be fundamental to support sme in local economy . that be one reason why , as well as back local authority in yesterday ' s Budget , we be back Tracy Brabin , the excellent Mayor of West Yorkshire , with funding to support the priority of local community in constituency such as that of my hon . friend . it be also why we be introduce measure such as high street rental auction and a powerful community right to buy , so that local community can start the process of revive their high street . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Minister mention that access to finance be vital for small business , but I hope he know that the past few day have see chaos in the motor finance market , with a number of major lender suspend lend entirely in response to a judgment in the appeal court . this have cause consternation across the entire business lending sector . can the Minister reassure we that the Government be fully engage with the industry and the Financial Conduct Authority in sort out an issue that could have a very , very significant impact on the entire sector and its supply chain ? we be certainly look at the issue that have arise for the industry from the judgment . more generally on access to finance , I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will welcome our launch , at the investment summit reference by the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , of the British Growth Partnership , which be aim at unlock investment in business that want to scale up . economic growth happen when micro - sized business become small business . we learn yesterday that micro - business that employ up to four full - time worker on the national living wage will be exempt from employer ' national insurance . yet small business that employ five worker or more will be subject to employer ' national insurance . how will that measure help small business in the south - west to scale up and bring economic growth to the region ? I be glad that the hon . Gentleman welcome , I think , the measure we take in the Budget to raise employment allowance to help the very small firm . the Federation of Small Businesses say yesterday that it will be a very big help for small firm . on his wide point about the Budget , I gently say to he , as I be sure he know only too well , that the economic inheritance the Government face have lead to our have to make some very tough decision . if he do not support the measure we have set out in the Budget , he need to say how he would finance the extra investment in the NHS and in industry that we have set out . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Wokingham have one of the high rate of business survival when compare with the average for the south - east and Berkshire , but yesterday ' s announcement that the Government will raise employer ' national insurance throw that into doubt . the hike be , plain and simple , a tax on job that will deal a hammer blow to our small business . what will the Government do to mitigate the impact on small business in my constituency and across the country ? I say very gently to the hon . Gentleman that if he and his party be determined to oppose the measure we take in the Budget , include on employer ' national insurance contribution , they need to set out how they would fund the extra investment in the NHS , the investment in the automotive and aerospace sector , and the measure to protect and raise living standard . International Investment Summit what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his Department ' s policy of the outcome of the international investment summit . we hold , as we have say , an international investment summit on 14 October , 100 day after we form the new Government . we secure £ 63 billion of investment , which be twice the level of the previous Government ' s investment summit . the investment will create high - quality , high - skilled , well - pay job across the country , and represent a huge vote of confidence in this new Government . as my hon . Friend quite rightly say , the Labour party be now the party of business without any question . do she agree that the measure commit to in yesterday ' s Budget on clean energy , carbon capture and storage and hydrogen — which be back up , by the way , with a commitment from a canadian investor of another £ 1 . 8 billion in offshore wind — show how much this Government be in tune with the business community ? we be attract investment and building on the investment summit , and we will deliver job for our constituent and our community up and down the country . I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . I also agree with the former Chancellor , Kwasi Kwarteng , in his article yesterday . I quote : " Conservatives , like myself , should be honest " and " Reeves be clean up our mess " . night - time economy what step he be take to support the night - time economy . we recognise the important role that night - time economy business play in support local economy and community . healthy night - time economy business not only support our creative industry , include musician , dj and performance artist , but bolster tourism and day - economy business . we be focus on our five - point plan to breathe life back into Britain ' s high street . that work will ensure that our high street be great place for our business , support economic growth across the UK , include in the night - time economy . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the hospitality industry be a crucial aspect of the night - time economy . it already face an existential crisis , with post - brexit labour shortage , covid debt and wage and commodity inflation . what advice would the Minister give to the hospitality industry and business that now face a hike in national insurance cost and , despite the headline , a more than double in last year ' s business rate ? I would gently point business in the night - time economy to a series of measure that we take in yesterday ' s Budget , include to reform business rate for the long term , from 2026 - 27 . we listen to business , include those in the night - time economy , and do not abolish the business rate relief . under the measure that we have take , for example , the average pub with a rateable value of almost £ 17 , 000 will save over £ 3 , 300 next year . last Saturday night I have the opportunity to go out in York with the police . it be incredibly interesting and I be so grateful for the work that they do , and it give I an opportunity to speak to employer . we know that , as employer , our traditional pub be really struggle because the pub code be not work properly . will the Minister meet I and the campaign for Pubs to discuss how we can improve thing for those business ? I will be very happy to meet my hon . friend . I know from talk to pub that they be also very worried about the rise in antisocial behaviour and crime in our high street and town centre . she and the pub and other member of the night - time economy that she work with will , I hope , be reassure by some of the measure that we have take in the Budget to begin the process of crack down on antisocial behaviour . Fair Trade what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to support fair trade for producer . I can assure my hon . friend that the United Kingdom be commit to advance both free and fair trade around the world that be inclusive , sustainable and seek to reduce poverty . the UK ' s aid - for - trade programme , include the new Trade Centre of Expertise announce by the Prime Minister on 24 October , build the capacity of producer , business and government in develop country to participate in , and prosper from , global trade . I can assure my hon . friend that the UK be commit to make the world a safe and more prosperous place through strengthen our international development work , as set out in our recent manifesto . child from Timothy Hackworth primary school in Shildon write to ask I to raise fair trade with the Minister as part of their fair trade week . they include Ashton , who remind I of the privilege that we have to serve in this place . they would also like to know whether the Minister have meet representative of the Fair Trade Foundation since his appointment , and whether he consider that Britain ' s leadership on fair trade policy can make a meaningful contribution to reduce poverty in sub - Saharan Africa . first , let I commend my hon . friend for his work with the local primary school . I know how assiduous he be in advance the interest of his constituent . I can assure he that we fully understand the importance of fair trade . I have meet a representative of the Fair Trade Foundation in recent week , and I pay particular tribute to the work that Fairtrade be do with the Co - op . thousand of farmer produce good such as tea , coffee , sugar and flower be help by Co - op in our high street across the country . it be now the UK ' s large seller of fair trade product , and it deserve our commendation too . Inward Investment : Scotland what step he be take to attract inward investment into Scotland . the international investment summit , about which we just hear , secure more than £ 63 billion , include for two significant project in Scotland . Scottish Power , own by Iberdrola , commit £ 24 billion to upgrade the UK ' s energy infrastructure over the next five year . float offshore wind developer Green Volt have select Aberdeen for its headquarters and plan to invest £ 2 . 5 billion . that , of course , come on top of this Government ' s establishment of GB Energy . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . yesterday see the large Budget settlement for the Scottish Government in devolution ' s history . the Labour party ' s commitment to Scotland run through this government . last week , the highly respect Strathclyde University ' s Fraser of Allander institute report that only 9 % of scottish business agree that the Scottish Government understand the business environment in Scotland . do my right hon . friend agree that Government understanding of business be crucial in drive investment and growth in Scotland , and that it be critical that the Scottish Government improve their understanding of the business environment ? frankly , business in Scotland have be let down by two fail government . we have have a decade of division and decay in Scotland , and I be glad to see that we now have political stability , with Labour have a majority in Scotland , Wales and England . at the same time , we be committed to genuine partnership and work with the Scottish Government . I know that my hon . friend have particular expertise in energy policy , give his past professional work . tomorrow I will be in Torness , in my constituency , to meet EDF Energy — just one example of a business that , frankly , be be hold back by the policy and approach of the present Scottish Government . I be not surprised in the slight to hear the disparage comment from those on the Government Benches about business in Scotland , so I will bring the House up to speed . for the ninth consecutive year , Scotland , under the SNP Scottish Government , be the UK ' s top - perform area outside London for foreign direct investment , yet Brexit have reduce the attractiveness of the UK as a base for export to EU market , result in its be overtake by France as the lead destination for foreign direct investment in Europe . do the Minister recognise that reverse what he seem to be married to at the moment — the Tories ' hard Brexit — be the most significant step that this Government could take to increase inward investment and boost growth in Scotland ? as I be say , let I deal with both the fail government who have be let Scotland down in the last decade . frankly , if the hon . Gentleman want to advance the case that there have be a decade of prosperity in Scotland , good luck to he . the reality be that it be very hard to think of a single aspect of scottish public life that have improve over the last 10 year . take the case of ferry . take the case of hospital . take the case of our school or , indeed , the broad business environment . on Brexit , I recognise that there be a need for a fundamental reset with the European Union , and in recent day I have be take forward that work . I welcome the work that the Prime Minister have be undertake , but that be the task of a Labour Government . as so often on so many issue , the SNP talk and labour deliver . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . in little more than 100 day in government , this Department and its Secretary of State , who be fly to Doha today , have set about deliver on the promise make in our manifesto . we have turn up the dial on growth and publish our Green Paper on the modern industrial strategy , which will channel support to key sector , work across our nation and region with the private sector , and deliver the condition for investment and good job . we have deliver a huge vote of confidence in the UK by secure £ 63 billion of investment at our international investment summit , boost by investment plough into our aerospace , automotive and life science sector , as announce in yesterday ' s Budget . we have also keep our promise by publish the Employment Rights Bill , which represent the big upgrade in worker ’ right in a generation . we be a pro - innovation , pro - worker and pro - wealth creation government , and be invest all our time in grow the economy for the long term and turn round 14 year of failure . a four - day week with no loss of pay have prove to have benefit for employer and employee alike , and a recent report by the Autonomy Institute and Alda suggest that it can have a hugely positive impact on the economy . the report conclude that Iceland ' s economy have outperform most of Europe since adopt a short working week , and now have one of the low unemployment rate . with even more UK business begin a four - day week trial on Monday as part of the 4 day Week campaign ' s autumn pilot , what assessment have the Department make of the icelandic report and of the potential impact that a four - day week could have on UK business and our economy ? the Government have no plan to undertake any trial on a four - day week for five day of pay . it be for employer and employee to reach agreement that fit their specific circumstance , but we want to get the balance right and make sure that we work with employer and employee . that be why the Employment Rights Bill will support both party to reach agreement , where they be feasible . I call the shadow Secretary of State . if Labour Members go back to their seat this weekend be think of go to a local pub for a pint and a chat with local farmer , I would think again . a publican with a mid - sized pub contact I last night to say that because of yesterday ' s change , he would be £ 120 , 000 a year bad off , move he from profit to loss . Labour say that its plan be fully cost and fully fund . yesterday be a massive break promise , be it not ? the hon . Gentleman oversee the bad Parliament for living standard in modern history . we do not choose that inheritance , and we have make choice . would he rather we do not compensate for the infected blood scandal ? would he rather we do not compensate the Horizon victim , for whom there be no money in the Budget , on his watch ? would he rather we do not invest in the health service ? would he rather we do not increase the minimum wage ? would he rather we do not support carer ? would he rather we make the choice that he make , such as cut national insurance for worker when there be no budget for that ? this government be fix the foundation , so that we can have a bright future for all our country . the Government ' s choice be to hit business , and that be because there be not an ounce of business experience among they . labour ' s death taxis will hit farm and business . family with a typical farm will have to find hundred of thousand of pound or see their farm break up and sell . the Environment Secretary say 10 month ago that he have no intention of put death taxis on business . that be a broken promise , be it not ? I will not take any lecture from the Opposition , who say " eff business " . conservative Members have some cheek to come at we when we be clear up the £ 22 billion black hole that we inherit , and set in train stability . I spend quite a lot of yesterday , as the hon . Gentleman would expect , talk to and have meeting with business about the Budget and its implication . we talk about the potential for growth , long - term stability , and change that this Labour Government be make . a study publish by the Disability Policy Centre this week suggest that improve support to get disabled people , those with long - term health condition and unpaid carer into work , and keep they in employment , could save the Treasury £ 38 billion . pay a high rate of sick pay have be show to increase employee retention and be key to reduce economic inactivity . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of the current rate of statutory sick pay on employee retention ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need to get more people back into work , and need to support they to return . in the Employment Rights Bill , we be look to increase the scope of sick pay to include people below the low earning limit , and to introduce payment from day one . we have no plan to increase the rate of statutory sick pay , but when we get the reform through , we will no doubt look at how we can reform it for the well . my Department for Work and Pensions colleague will consider that in due course . after yesterday ' s Budget , those run small and medium - sized business will see their national insurance rise and their wage bill increase . those in hospitality , run a pub or restaurant , for example , will have a 35 % reduction in their business rate relief . to top it off , the Employment Rights Bill will bring more red tape for business . those massive change be happen very quickly . do the Minister agree with the Institute of Directors that it be a " perfect storm " of high taxis , high wage and more red tape ? no . I gently point out to the hon . Gentleman the difficult economic inheritance that his party leave this government to sort out . we be determined to walk towards all the tough decision his party refuse to face up to in government . if he be against the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution , he need to say how he will fund the investment we announce yesterday in the aerospace and automotive sector , and how he would fund the extra investment that we will make in the NHS and other public service . we will take no lecture from the conservative party about business . plenty of we have experience of business , and I be one of they . many high street business want to continue accept cash . just as importantly , so do many of my resident , particularly the elderly , disabled and vulnerable . I have speak to the citizen advice bureau , which be hear how concerned elderly resident be . what step be the Government take to ensure that the Post Office can well offer banking service on the high street to cater for the spender and recipient of cash ? order . these be topical question , and they be mean to be short and punchy , not speech . I be sure we can find time for an Adjournment debate for the hon . Gentleman . give that almost 9 , 500 bank branch close over the past 14 year , on the conservative party ' s watch , it have increasingly be leave to the Post Office to provide vital banking service on the high street . I be sure the banking industry recognise its responsibility to work with we to ensure that sub - postmaster , whose pay have not increase for a decade , and the Post Office have what its need to help meet the critical cash and banking need of all our constituent . although yesterday ' s announcement may dampen business ' expansion plan , many business in my constituency and elsewhere find it difficult to expand because of national grid connection . what be minister do to engage with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and National Grid to ensure that connection be available ? I be glad that the hon . Gentleman ask what we be do to engage with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , because I sit across that Department and the Department for Business and Trade . the entire point of my role be to make sure that we join up the two Departments , so that we can crack some of these problem . the grid be no . 1 on our list . I warmly welcome the £ 10 billion investment in a data centre in Cambois in my constituency , but I share the concern of many resident who believe that it be fast become a plug - in centre for huge infrastructure programme . do my hon . friend agree that when we have huge infrastructure programme in certain constituency , resident should benefit from local job and community facility ? I agree with my hon . friend . it be essential that local community see the benefit of landmark investment . I be pleased that Blackstone be invest £ 110 million in a fund to support local skill training and transport infrastructure . I be happy to have a conversation with my hon . friend about what more can be do . farming and agricultural business employ thousand of people in my constituency , and they make a huge contribution to the local economy . can the Minister set out exactly how yesterday ' s Budget will help they to develop and grow ? farmer , like any other business people , need the stability that will be deliver as a consequence of our fix the foundation , as we set out yesterday . I too represent a constituency with a number of farmer , and I be aware of the concern that have be raise about inheritance tax , but , frankly , difficult choice have to be make yesterday because of choice that be not make by the Government in which the right hon . Gentleman serve . business owner in Clwyd East , in north Wales , want a Government who be serious about get long - term , sustainable job into our economy — a process that we start yesterday . our unique geography see we lead on wind power and carbon capture , and we have a proud manufacturing base , which be already benefit from our two government work together , and from a long - term sustainable plan for the future . will the Minister work with I to ensure that business be well place to invest in north Wales , both now and in the future ? yes , I will work with my hon . friend . we be delighted with the £ 1 billion investment secure to transform the Shotton mill site . I think that a Labour Government in Westminster and a Labour Government in Wales can work together to deliver great thing . some 29 % of job in Eastbourne , the sunny town in the UK , be connect to the hospitality sector , but many business in that sector have express concern about yesterday ' s Budget , which UK Hospitality have describe as the " late blow for hospitality " . will the Minister meet I and local hospitality business to discuss those concern ? I declare an interest as the patron of the Eastbourne Hospitality Association . I would be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman and the Eastbourne Hospitality Association to discuss the concern that he have articulate . I gently say to he , as other Ministers have point out , that we face a tough economic inheritance , and have to make very difficult decision in the Budget yesterday . I want to see Slough High Street thrive , but door be close , business be struggle and antisocial behaviour have be on the rise , especially after over a decade of neglect and lack of support by Tory Governments . what practical step be the Government take to ensure that high street such as our , in Slough , be revive ? when we be in opposition , we set out a five - point plan to help with the revival of high street . we be work to bring forward that plan . my hon . friend will see more detail in the small business strategy Command Paper that we be committed to publish next year . we have an anomalous situation in Spelthorne whereby people can use an oyster card to pay for six different red bus , but not the train . that be cripple small business and people go into London . will Ministers in the Department use their combine might to lobby on my behalf and get I a meeting with the Minister for Rail , so that we can get Spelthorne into the correct zone ? I admire the hon . Gentleman ' s ability to shoehorn in a question on a subject that be not in the Department for Business and Trade ' s remit , but we be of course happy to help with his endeavour to talk to Ministers in the Department for Transport . the all - party parliamentary group on eye health and visual impairment , which I chair , recently publish its report , " change attitude , change life " , look at employer attitude towards blind and partially sight people . we find that nearly half of employer do not have accessible recruitment process , which mean that they miss out on a wealth of talent . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can create a step change in employer attitude towards blind and partially sight people ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . under the " get Britain work " plan , more disabled people and people with health condition will be support to enter and stay in work , and I be happy to discuss with she how we can achieve that aim . the Government ' s own impact assessment suggest that measure in the Employment Rights Bill could cost business up to £ 4 . 5 billion annually and increase the number of strike by 54 % . do the Minister expect that legislation to enhance or undermine investor confidence ? I gently point out to the hon . Lady that that represent a 0 . 4 % increase on business ' total cost — a small price to pay for what the impact assessment say " will strengthen work condition for the lowest - pay and most vulnerable in the labour market , increase fairness and equality across Britain . it will have significant positive impact on worker who be trap in insecure work , face discrimination , or suffer from unscrupulous employer behaviour like ' fire and refire ' practice " . if the hon . Lady do not support that , I be sure that she can talk to her constituent about why . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . on Tuesday , we will hear from Sir Alan Bates and other victim of the Horizon scandal , which continue to deepen . in September , we learn that there will be 100 more conviction quash than we originally think , and yesterday the bill for redress go up by half a billion pound . have all the victim now come forward , and be there any gap leave in the scheme for redress ? I welcome the decision by my right hon . friend ' s Select Committee to take a further look at the issue . it be a priority for the Department to speed up the compensation process . victim be still come forward , and we be actively look at whether all those who come forward be cover by the compensation scheme . we have ask the Post Office to write to all those sub - postmaster who have not yet come forward to see if they be eligible for compensation . we should all welcome the work of both government that result in the announcement of £ 63 billion of inward investment into the UK . however , since then , as a number of member have point out , we have have significant new regulation in the labour market and massive new taxis on business . if any of those investor now change their mind , will the Secretary of State come to the House and inform we , please ? we will of course keep the House update on the result of the investment summit , but the £ 63 billion , as I say early , be a massive show of confidence in this new Government . I be grateful to the Minister and the Secretary of State for the work that they have put in to secure a future for the Harland & Wolff yard at Arnish in my constituency , and indeed at Methil , Appledore and Belfast . I understand that talk be commercially sensitive , but , as worker be anxious about their future , can the Minister update we on how the talk be go ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for the work that he be do to represent his community . we be work extensively with all party to find an outcome for Harland & Wolff that deliver shipbuilde and manufacturing in Belfast , Scotland and Appledore in Devon . I can not comment far , as he say , due to commercial sensitivity , but we be work extensively with everyone to get the right deal . the International Court of Justice judgment from 19 July this year rule that it be the duty of third - party state not to aid or assist Israel ' s " unlawful occupation " of palestinian territory . in the light of this , will the Minister tell we whether the Department for Business and Trade have obtain legal advice , or whether it be in the process of do so , on the legality of the UK ' s exist trade relation with Israel , and if it have , will he share it with the House , please ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we work closely with our colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office who be responsible for the international humanitarian law assessment . my good and right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have update the House on the change advice receive by the Government , and I think that I should leave it there . will the Minister meet I to discuss how the Government could far develop an industrial strategy to bring up to 10 , 000 job in the offshore wind supply chain over the next 10 year ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend often and regularly , as we do , to talk about these matter . of course , the offshore wind supply chain be incredibly important . we have two big announcement to that end , which she mention , in relation to Orsted and Greenvolt , and there be much more that we can do through the industrial strategy to keep that area grow . what discussion have there be with Invest NI in relation to support small Northern Ireland business in the digital evolution , to help they adapt and make improvement with digital technology to ensure the smooth running of their business ? we have hold discussion with a range of organisation on exactly that issue . I promise the hon . Gentleman early that I would meet he . if he want to add that to the list of subject that we talk about , I be happy for he to do so . you do like Mr Shannon . in Doncaster , we have an innovative chamber of commerce and a fantastic set of local business . as well as the much - need upgrade to worker ’ right , can the Minister update the House on what we be do to kickstart a skill revolution for business in Doncaster and across the country ? can he also update the House on what he be do to work across department to ensure that happen ? as other across Whitehall have already set out , we have establish Skills England and begin the process of reform the apprenticeship levy to help business get well access to the skill they need . I call Perran Moon for the final question . I have more than 30 year of business experience , so the conservative party ' s claim that there be no business experience on the Government Benches carry about as much weight as their industrial strategy . can the Minister confirm that prior to the election there be extensive consultation with business expert , which I bet the conservative party wish they have do over the past 14 year . yes , indeed . I can reassure my hon . friend that , on this Front Bench , there be member , include I , who do have private sector experience , and who have run business . of course we have have very strong relationship with business , both in the run - up to the election and now , and we will continue to build on those strong relationship for the benefit of all the people across our country . business of the House before we come to business question , I be sure that the House will want to send our good wish to Robin James , who retire today after 40 year , during which he clerk the Home Affairs Committee , the Foreign Affairs Committee , the Defence Committee , the Committees on Standards and the Committee of Privileges . Robin be a Clerk of the Committee that approve the building of Portcullis House , and as a Clerk to many Committees since , he have produce many thorough report . I wish he a long , happy and fulfilling retirement . will the Leader of the House provide we with the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 4 November include : Monday 4 November — Continuation of the Budget debate . Tuesday 5 November — Continuation of the Budget debate . Wednesday 6 November — Conclusion of the Budget debate . the House will rise for the November recess at the conclusion of business on Wednesday 6 November and return on Monday 11 November . the provisional business for the week commence 11 November will include : Monday 11 November — general debate on flood preparedness . Tuesday 12 November — remain stage of the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . Wednesday 13 November — debate on a motion to approve the draft Voter Identification ( Amendment of List of Specified Documents ) Regulations 2024 , follow by a debate on a motion to approve the draft Environmental Protection ( single - use Vapes ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , follow by a debate on motion to approve the draft Export and Investment Guarantees ( Limit on Exports and Insurance Commitments ) Order 2024 , the draft Export and Investment Guarantees ( Limit on Exports and Insurance Commitments ) ( no . 2 ) Order 2024 , and the draft Export and Investment Guarantees ( Limit on Exports and Insurance Commitments ) ( no . 3 ) Order 2024 . Thursday 14 November — second reading of the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( extension ) Bill [ Lords ] . Friday 15 November — the House will not be sit . Mr Speaker , I echo your thank and congratulation to Robin James , who retire today after 40 year of service . in this House , we all rely on the service of the Clerks , and I know that we be all extremely grateful to Robin for the work that he have do over four decade . I be sure that the whole House will also want to send our thought , prayer and good wish to those affect by the terrible flood currently happen in Spain . some british citizen be affect as well . it be good that we will have such ample time to debate the Budget , because it raise some extremely serious issue . on 29 July , the Chancellor of the Exchequer stand at the Dispatch Box and tell we that there be a £ 22 billion black hole . that claim have be repeat by Labour Ministers subsequently as a pretext for the tax rise that they plan all along . the Chancellor ask the Office for Budget Responsibility to produce a report into this matter , which be publish yesterday . it be call the " Review of the March 2024 forecast for departmental expenditure limit " — a snappy title . I have read that report , as I be sure other have , and nowhere do it mention £ 22 billion . that number be not there at all . in fact , the only reference to a number be find on page 2 and in table 1 . even the Treasury , strain every sinew , could only find number that add up to £ 9 . 5 billion , and even there the OBR say that " it be not possible to judge how much of the £ 9 . 5 billion " might actually have be realise . when the Chancellor say that there be a £ 22 billion black hole , yesterday ' s OBR report now prove that that be simply untrue . will she come here and apologise for provide that number to the House , give that the OBR report show that it be simply not true , and certainly do not justify £ 40 billion - worth of tax rise — the large tax rise in any Budget in history ? let I turn to election promise and trust in politic , because when we make promise to the public , it be important that we keep they . [ laughter . ] I do not know why you be laugh , because these be your promise . the Labour party say that its plan do not require any extra tax rise . yesterday , the Government announce £ 40 billion - worth of extra tax rise . they say that there would be no increase in national insurance , but yesterday they announce a £ 25 billion increase in national insurance . let I turn now to their final fig leaf : work people . apparently , work people would not be affect . in the last couple of hour the Chancellor herself , on the BBC , have admit what we all know all along : that work people would be affect , as a result of low wage . in fact , we can quantify that , thank to the OBR ' s analysis — I be now quite a fan of the OBR . it publish yesterday its " economic and fiscal outlook " . it be 205 page long , so some Labour member might not have have a chance to read it all , but I have . on page 54 , in paragraph 3 . 11 , it tell we exactly how much of that £ 25 billion national insurance increase will fall on the shoulder of work people . the OBR say that " 76 per cent of the total " will result in " low real wage " for work people . so 76 % of that £ 25 billion increase will fall on the shoulder of work people . that be £ 19 billion a year low wage as a result of yesterday ' s Budget . that be not I ; that be the OBR . so perhaps the Leader of the House would like to apologise to those work people for the £ 19 billion pay cut she have just hand they . during the election campaign , Conservative Members warn that Labour ' s plan would result in a £ 2 , 094 tax increase per work household , and Labour call we liar . I remember be on the radio and the tv , and labour shadow Ministers at the time — include the Leader of the House , I think — call we liar . we now know the truth : £ 40 billion a year . that be £ 2 , 173 per work household , so about £ 100 more than we warn . perhaps she can apologise for that as well . we also warn that the tax burden would increase to 37 . 4 % of gdp . the OBR say that it will be 38 % of gdp — higher even than we warn when Labour call we liar . that be the high tax burden ever in our country ' s history . so the Government be elect on a false prospectus . the OBR have now tell we that will result in low growth by the end of the forecast period and high inflation . the truth have finally come out : the Government be go to tax more , they be go to borrow more , and they be go to spend more , and now we know who will pay : work people , to the tune of £ 19 billion a year . can I just say to the shadow Leader of the House that he say " you " ? I be definitely not responsible for this Budget — I want to make that very clear . thank you , Mr Speaker . may I , too , join you in pay tribute to Robin James , who have be a Clerk here for over 40 year , most recently on the Committees on Standards and of Privileges , which have certainly put he in the spotlight in recent year . I know he wish to retire to Wales , with the twin ambition of learn Welsh and finally learn to drive . I be sure we wish he well with both those endeavour . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) on the birth of his newborn daughter Connie this week . finally , I think , the conservative leadership contest will finish this weekend , and it could be all change on the Opposition Benches . this could be my last exchange with the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) . he be well know for his ambition , and perhaps today be another audition for high office . I be sure he would welcome a promotion , from the detailed discussion we have on restoration and renewal and House procedure , and I be that sure he will be look forward to that . I thank he for the work that we have do together . if this be our last exchange , I will really miss his — how shall I put it ? — boundless enthusiasm , because God love a trier ; let we hope the next conservative leader do too . as the right hon . Gentleman rightly say , yesterday we see history make , with the first ever Budget deliver by a female Chancellor . I be so proud of my friend for smash that glass ceiling . the country vote for change and our Budget live up to that promise . we have make clear choice . we have choose responsibility over recklessness , reliable public service over endless crisis , put work people first , investment over decline , a Budget that be now back by the International Monetary Fund — an unprecedented endorsement of a Budget . in many way , it be not a Budget that we expect or want to make , but we have have to fix the mess leave by the conservative party — [ interruption . ] I know that Conservative Members do not like to hear it , but they be not straight with people before the election . the Office for Budget Responsibility , which the right hon . Gentleman quote , have make it clear that , have it know the true state of the public finance in March , its forecast for the previous Government ' s plan would have be " materially different . " I do not usually agree with the former Chancellor , Kwasi Kwarteng , but perhaps the right hon . Gentleman should heed his advice today . he say that the situation Labour inherit be " structurally difficult . " in other word , we be clear up the Conservatives ' mess . I be a little confused , Mr Speaker . do the right hon . Gentleman now accept that there be a black hole , but disagree on the amount , or be he still in denial that there be even a black hole at all ? it be ironic that the Conservatives spend all week undermine the OBR , but be now try to hide behind the OBR ' s figure . I be not sure — which be it ? he will know that there be a huge black hole , even before the pay award that the Conservatives leave sit on their desk , and for which they set aside no money even though they know that someone would have to pay for it . we make no apology for the Budget , which be about long - term investment and a decade of national renewal . that be why it be right that we consider the benefit of investment and not just the cost . this country have suffer year of decline and under - investment — we be rank second low for investment in the OECD . we have choose investment , not far decline under the Tories . we have have to be honest about the difficult choice that we have make in the Budget give what we be leave with . I must ask the right hon . Gentleman and other conservative Members : how would they fix the finance leave by their government ? how would they give the NHS the money that it need ? how would they get the long - term investment that the country be cry out for ? we have absolutely put work people first , and I be proud of the pay rise that the Budget give the poor worker next April . there be many more thing to welcome in the Budget , and I be sure that the House , and maybe the right hon . Gentleman , welcome they . they include one of the big ever increase in nhs spending to deal with the record waiting list that the Conservatives leave behind , much - need funding for special educational need and disability education , a boost for carer for the first time since the 1970 , fix the school that the Conservatives leave to crumble , more affordable social housing , money to tackle the cladding crisis , usher in a decade of national renewal , and invest in the job of the future in clean energy , tech , aerospace , automotive , transport , life science and much more . in particular , and I must say this because it need underlining , this Government have finally put aside money to pay compensation to the victim of historical injustice , include infected blood and the Post Office Horizon scandal , and to deliver fairness for the mine - worker ' pension scheme . honestly , the most shameful part of the Conservatives ' recklessness with the country be that they promise many time that victim of those injustice would receive compensation , but they put aside not a single penny — not a single budget line to pay for it — in any of their costing . we can not in one Budget undo the 14 sorry year of conservative under - investment , stagnant growth , fall living standard and crumble public service , but this Budget make a very good first step forward . yesterday , a large number of woman lobby Parliament . they represent a generation of woman — just woman , not man , which be perhaps not too odd give the value of the conservative party — who suffer a great injustice in the Pensions Act 2011 . they call themselves the Women against State Pension Age Inequality Campaign , or WASPI . government inevitably take time — estimate must be make and legal advice take — but I would be grateful to the Leader of the House if she indicate when we might hear a statement on the WASPI situation , or have the opportunity to debate it , so that we can give some hope to thousand of woman , include 4 , 500 in my constituency . my hon . friend have long campaign on these issue , and have ask about they before . he rightly raise the campaigner ' point ; he will be aware that the report be detailed and substantial , require the Government to give proper time to consider all its finding . I assure my hon . friend that as soon as that proper consideration have be give , Ministers will come to Parliament to report on it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I also express my sympathy with the people of eastern Spain on the tragic scene we be see there . I understand that a 71 - year - old Briton may also be among the dead , and we expect the number to go up . it be perhaps timely that a general debate on flooding be come up . I welcome that debate , and look forward to hear what be discuss . there be much in yesterday ' s Budget that the Liberal Democrats welcome . in particular , we welcome the additional fund for the day - to - day nhs spending . we have long be campaign for that , and we very much welcome it . however , there be patient in hospital who be well enough to leave , but can not do so unless they get the care they need . unfortunately , the £ 600 million that be announce for social care will not touch the side of what be need to make that system work properly and alleviate the pressure on the NHS . will the Leader of the House set aside Government time for a general debate on how good to reform social care ? I join the hon . Lady and the shadow Leader of the House — I mean to do so early — in express the Government ' s condolence to , and support for , those in Spain who have either die or lose all their belonging and their home in the recent spanish flood . as she say , we have a general debate in two week ' time on flood preparedness , partly in response to so many question come forward on that topic during this Session . I thank the hon . Lady for her word about the Budget . there be a lot of good news in the Budget that her party should welcome , give how much campaigning they have do on many of these issue . they should be grateful for some of the measure , particularly the big ever cash increase in the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance , for which her party have campaign . as the hon . Lady say , we have announce a huge funding boost for the NHS and an extra £ 600 million for social care . she be absolutely right , though , that these issue will take time to work through , and will need further reform and investment to deal with go forward . the age population and the crisis in social care be inextricably link to the future of our health service . I have many tower block in my constituency , and too many constituent find that their lift be regularly break and be not get fix . this be not just down to individual landlord — it cut across the piece . be it not time for a debate in Government time about how the four main lift company organise their structure and maintenance contract ? this be stop people from live their life , and very often leave they trap in or outside their flat . as an MP who also represent a number of people who live in tall building , I completely hear what my hon . friend be say . this be a very important matter , and I be sure that if she be to apply for a debate , it would get a lot of attention . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . the good news be that the Backbench Business Committee will be meet on Tuesday . we be open for business , and a steady series of application have start , particularly from one of our long - term season ticket holder . we be go to be open for request for 90 - minute or half - day debate ; it would be very exceptional for we to grant a full day ' s debate . we be also go to keep a very close eye on whether those people who make or support application actually turn up and speak in the debate that be allocate . we have a very good meeting with the Leader of the House early this week , and I be look forward to her announce time for the Backbench Business Committee to allocate debate . Mr Speaker , you have very graciously grant we the use of Speaker ' s House for the Diwali reception on Monday , for which we thank you . to Hindus , Sikhs and Jains , I wish Shubh Deepavali for today , and Nutan Varshabhinandan for Saturday . I , too , welcome the formation of the Backbench Business Committee , and I welcome the conversation we have begin to ensure that we work together on the allocation of time for Backbench Business debate and other that may be grant by the Government . on the application from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , I be sure he will definitely be in attendance for that debate , should the Committee grant it . there be no question about that , and I expect it will be on the freedom of religion or belief , which be a common theme of his question in these session . I join the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) in wish everybody a happy Diwali . I be delighted that the Chancellor ' s Budget include a significant real - term funding increase for local authority , give they more to invest in vital community service and infrastructure . I , too , express my condolence to the victim of flooding in Spain . one of my constituent have experience significant flooding issue after the road outside her property be resurface in a way that direct water directly into her home , instead of towards the river . after raise this with Cornwall council , she be tell that nothing could be do . do the Leader of the House agree with I that it be incumbent on local authority to ensure that every penny of taxpayer ' money be spend as effectively as possible to address serious issue such as the flooding experience by my constituent ? I thank my hon . friend for raise important matter relate to his constituency , which be absolutely what he should be do . he be right to say that the conservative party starve local government of fund over recent year , which have leave community pay the price . that be why I be really proud that , in yesterday ' s Budget , we see a significant real - term increase for local government spending power over the come year , and they will be have multi - year funding settlement . my hon . friend raise a good point about flood resilience . he will know that we have set up the flood taskforce . there be a debate during the week after next on these issue , and he may wish to raise that point then . I call Sir David Davis — and congratulation on your knighthood . thank you , Mr Speaker . indeed , this question may be of interest to you . the Leader of the House have ministerial responsibility , but she be also the near thing this House have to a shop steward in the Cabinet , and it be in that context I ask she this question . a month ago , I write to the Chancellor about her cancellation of the investment opportunity fund , a decision that have put at risk an investment of hundred of million of pound in a new factory in Goole in my constituency , and with it hundred of job . two week ago , I chase up that letter and be tell I be go to get a reply ; I be even give a reference number . yesterday , at 1 o ' clock on the dot , I get a timed email tell I that the Treasury be not go to answer my question and be hand it off to somebody else . this be a dishonest piece of obfuscation to avoid accountability before the Budget debate . I hope it be not a harbinger of thing to come , but will the Leader of the House remind her colleague in Cabinet of their direct responsibility to we , for our constituency , to answer such a question and treat it properly in future ? I join in congratulate the right hon . member . he raise a really important matter , and he can be assure that I take a dim view when my colleague do not respond to parliamentary write question or correspondence in both a timely and a thorough manner . I constantly remind — and have very recently remind — all my Cabinet colleague and Ministers of their duty to do so . if member have any instance of when that have not be the case , I will take those up directly , as I will if he want to share that one with I . in fairness , as the right hon . Gentleman have bring I into this discussion , I be also concerned . I expect Ministers to reply to hon . member of this House , whatever side they be on . bad than that , to transfer such a question to someone else at the last minute be totally unacceptable . minister be accountable to this House . I fully support the Leader of the House , and I will work with she to make sure that all member get such letter on time . let we get that message back to Ministers — I be sure those on the Treasury Bench be listen — and I hope that a reply be be send as we speak . I recently have the privilege of visit the newly create Ryton heritage garden , which include a memorial to her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II , and of cut the ribbon . Brighten Ryton be an amazing organisation that do much to help our local community , and I particularly thank Terry Docherty who lead the project . may we have a debate in Government time on the importance of local community organisation in support our area ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate all those who work at the heritage garden in her constituency , and particularly Terry Docherty — it sound as if he have do an immense job for her constituent . this topic be raise regularly , and now that the Backbench Business Committee be establish , I be sure it would consider an application for a debate on the involvement of local community activist and the importance of volunteer to our community . I call the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . I know that you , Mr Speaker , take a close interest in the enormous restoration and renewal project in this House , which be estimate to cost at least £ 10 billion of anybody ' s money — [ interruption . ] at least . we be currently spend £ 2 million a week on maintenance in this place , a large chunk of which be take up by the cost of prepare for restoration and renewal . I put it to the Leader of the House that we need to get on and make some decision on this matter , because otherwise we face some catastrophic failure in one of our service in this House — a flood , a fire , or something . we have be talk about this since 2014 , and it set a bad example to the rest of Government if we can not even manage our own affair . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue . Mr Speaker and I discuss this matter regularly , and we share the concern about it , as do many other across the House . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that this building be in desperate need of investment and of restoration and renewal . he will be aware that three option for how we take the project forward will come to the House early next year , and I will play my full part in ensure that we restore and renew this fantastic building . my constituent Claire ' s son Elliot be diagnose with diplegic cerebral palsy at the age of four and need a wheelchair immediately . Elliot be now eight , and his chair desperately need adjust . however , due to the waiting list for reablement service , Claire and Elliot have have to wait over six month . may we have a debate in Government time on the provision of reablement service ? my hon . friend raise an important matter about reablement care and service , and it be another shocking symptom of the state of care and the NHS in our country . that be why the Budget yesterday be so important for renew our national health service . the Budget debate next Tuesday will be on fix the NHS and reform our public service , and that might be a good moment for she to raise the matter . give long - stand community concern in my constituency about road safety , the extremely high rate of fatality on the A30 at the Plusha junction , and the need for a grade junction at that location , may we have a debate in Government time on how National Highways and the Government can well work together to deliver critical infrastructure project to reduce accident and fatality on our busy a road ? I thank the hon . member for that question . as he will be aware , yesterday we announce additional fund for road and other infrastructure , which will play an important role . we will deliver an update strategic framework for road safety shortly , and I will ensure that minister come to the House regularly to report on that . my right hon . friend will be aware of how much coastal community such as mine depend on bus service , not least to get to vital healthcare , and I be grateful to the Chancellor for find the money to retain a cap on bus fare . in east Kent , however , our orthopaedic centre be in Canterbury , yet there be now no direct bus service from Ramsgate or Broadstairs , make access hard for the very people with mobility issue who need such service . will the Leader of the House find Government time to debate access to healthcare via sustainable , reliable , safe and affordable transport ? that be an excellent question , and I be glad that my hon . friend have raise the issue of the bus cap . she will be aware that the Conservatives budget for the cap to last only until December , and it be this Government that have extend it , albeit at £ 3 , beyond that date . we will bring forward further bus regulation to ensure that local area such as hers , and neighbouring authority , can once again take control of bus route , fare and timetable to meet the need of their community . my heart go out to the family of the british national kill in the flooding in Spain in the last few day . the National Farmers Union describe yesterday ' s Budget as " disastrous " , the Country Land and Business Association describe it as " a betrayal " and farmer across Rutland and Stamford be in distress , as my inbox show . whether on agricultural property relief or charge full road tax on double cab pick - up truck , which be hide in the Budget , the NFU say that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs do not care . will the Leader of the House advise I on when the next chance to raise this breach of previous promise will be , or will she secure a meeting with the Minister for my local farmer ? I be sorry to hear of the reaction of the hon . member ' s local community , but we do have to make some difficult choice in the Budget . we recognise the important role that farmer play in support their local community , provide food security and the many other contribution they make to our country . it be worth note , for she and her constituent , that three quarter of farmer who be currently entitle to receive the full relief on inheritance tax will still get it after the Budget . it be the top 25 % that will not . I be sorry to say it , but she will remember that her party lose the support of farmer , and that be why my party now have more than 100 new member represent rural constituency . since 2011 , Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Service have lose 437 full - time equivalent firefighter . More than that , the number of on - call and retain firefighter have drop by more than 60 % from 483 to just 189 . that be a significant drop in the amount of fire cover , and the cut have be 1 . 5 time deep than in any comparable rural fire service . do the Leader of the House agree that it be a press issue , and will she consider a debate on the adequacy of fire cover across the country ? I know from my own constituency that such matter be raise all the time . fire cover , and have adequate fire officer , be very important to local community . budget have be cut in recent year and I know that Home Affairs Ministers take that very seriously . Home Office question be come up shortly , and I be sure that my hon . friend would get a good response . debate in this place be increasingly punctuate and populate by reference to outside body , from the Environment Agency to Network Rail , and from the Migration Advisory Committee to the much mention Office for Budget Responsibility . none be elect or accountable to the people we serve — we do not really know who they be . may we have a debate on the increase blob activism that threaten the separation of power ? we know about judicial activism , but this activism be just as dangerous . those body wield immense power , and Ministers elect to govern should not be stymie , hamper , cow or chastise by people with no democratic legitimacy . the right hon . Gentleman be well know as a blob activist himself — [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] I do not mean it that way . I mean against the blob : I be sorry to be misinterpret . if he be refer to the important financial — [ interruption . ] this will start I off laugh now — on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I think the Leader of the House need a few moment to calm down . I call the Leader of the House . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that . perhaps that joke should have refer to one of the prospective leader of the — no , I will not go any far . the right hon . Gentleman refer to some very important independent financial institution that offer this country the financial stability for which be renowne around the world . when we ignore those institution , as the former Prime Minister Liz Truss do , we see who pay the great price for that . those institution play an important role , but he be right to say that they should be accountable to Parliament , and it be my expectation that those body appear regularly before Select Committees . five - year - old in the most deprived area of Luton be two and a half time more likely to have experience dental decay . I pay tribute to organisation such as the Dental Wellness Trust , which do great work on child ' s oral health in Luton and beyond . I welcome our Labour Government ' s plan to fix dentistry , include the provision of a supervise tooth brushing programme for three to five - year - old . will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on the positive impact these measure will have across the country ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the dire state that NHS dentistry fall into under the previous Government , and the really high level of poor oral health that many of our child face . poor child oral health remain one of the main reason for admission into A & E and other service , and that be why this Government be commit to tackle it . further work be announce in yesterday ' s Budget . my hon . friend will know that there be a debate next week on fix the NHS , and I be sure she will want to raise these issue there . this week , the international community be meet in Colombia to discuss and drive forward nature protection . here in the UK , we know that nature be under pressure and decline , and I believe it be a point of agreement across the entire House that agriculture have a crucial role to play in protect nature . yet yesterday ' s Budget set out a 2 % real - term decrease in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs budget over the next two year . may we have a debate in Government time on the vital role of nature - friendly farming and the importance of Government support for it ? I share the hon . Lady ' s concern about nature and the wellness of our nature in this country , and we be committed to those issue . that be why we have bring forward many plan in recent week and will continue to do so in future week . there be many thing in yesterday ' s Budget that will work towards that aim . I would have think she would welcome our drive to be the clean energy superpower that we want to be , and all the benefit that that will bring in the future . the Leader of the House will remember from her visit to redditch the real anger on the doorstep from my constituent about waiting time in Redditch and in Worcestershire as a whole . yesterday ' s announcement by the Chancellor will make a real difference to the people my right hon . Friend speak to , who have be wait too long for the treatment that they deserve . will the Leader of the House give we some time to talk about how the change announce yesterday will make a real difference to those people ' s life ? I know from my visit to redditch with my hon . friend that he campaign brilliantly in the general election and before that on bring change to the NHS in this country and on reduce waiting time and waiting list . yesterday , thank to his campaigning and that of many other , he see the single big boost to our NHS funding since 2010 , outside of covid . that will begin the process of rebuild our NHS , as his constituent want . resident in North Norfolk be worried about the impact of flooding as we enter the winter month , and I welcome the general debate plan for 11 November . tomorrow , I be hold a meeting of key agency with responsibility for water management and almost 200 of my constituent . the Broadland Futures Initiative be likely to report later this Parliament on the future scenario face the area , which I know deeply concern both I and the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) . once it be publish , will the Leader of the House allow we a debate in Government time on this important report to ensure that we have a safe and secure future for this treasured national park and low - lie Norfolk more broadly ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the work he do locally on flood resilience and for raise this matter . we want to have the debate next week in part because it be raise during business question so often . I will , of course , make sure that the relevant Minister come to this House or give a statement to it when the report be publish . reform the leasehold system be a priority for I in Parliament , because I have many leaseholder in Sheffield Central live in unaffordable home and struggle to extend their lease or pay their monthly bill due to high , inconsistent and unfair charge . as an example , one of my leaseholder have a service charge of £ 1 , 800 , which be increase to £ 6 , 000 as a result of build safety issue that be certainly not their fault , render their property unsellable . will the Leader of the House share when the Government will bring forward secondary legislation to implement provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , to give leaseholder great power , right and protection over their home ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise what I know will be a big issue in her constituency , as it be in my own . the plight of leaseholder over recent year — soar service charge and many live in unsellable , unsafe home — be shocking and unacceptable . that be why this Government will enact the previous Government ' s Act at pace and finally bring an end to the feudal leasehold system with our forthcoming Bill . farmer wake up today break and devastate after yesterday ' s announcement by the Government . we only have to look across social medium to see farmer speak about the impact of the hike in tax on generational farming . farmer be among those who suffer most from mental health problem , give the problem of a tough harvest . this concoction have come together under this government . will the Leader of the House ask the Environment Secretary to make a statement on Monday ? will she write to the Health Secretary to ensure a ringfence fund for all those farmer who will suffer and will be unable to pass on their family farm to the next generation ? the impact on food security will be severe and shocking . as I say , this Government be incredibly committed to our farming and rural community , to ensure food security . we have have to make some difficult decision in this Budget , but I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that he should be careful in scaremongere about the reality of what be happen . as I say , three quarter of those currently entitle to the full relief will still be entitle to it follow the measure in the Budget . he might reflect on one reason why so many rural constituency choose Labour mp at the last election : the president of the National Farmers ' Union describe decision by the previous Conservative Government as " morally bankrupt " . next year , England will proudly host the woman ' s rugby world cup . Franklin ' s Gardens , home to our mighty premiership champion Northampton Saints , be set to stage several match , include a Red Roses game . there be huge excitement in our town and beyond about the opportunity that England host the game will provide , include the opportunity to grow grassroots participation in the woman ' s game . might the Leader of the House consider schedule a debate in Government time on how we can capitalise fully on this opportunity , and expand support for and participation in the woman ' s game ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . those kind of event inspire participation and interest in the woman ' s game and more broadly . that be why this Government be commit to a curriculum review , put physical education and sport back at the heart of our curriculum . initiative such as Sport England ' s this Girl can campaign continue to inspire many young woman and girl to get active and get involve . I be sure that they will look closely at what she say . small community pharmacy have be push to the brink in recent year . on a visit to Abbotswood pharmacy in my constituency , I hear how the current funding formula have lead to a real - term cut of 30 % since 2015 , and how it punish rather than reward pharmacy for provide extra service . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the role of pharmacy and how we can well support they to do their vital work ? community pharmacy , as the hon . Lady rightly say , play a very important part in ensure that health service be in the community and provide preventive support for local community . that be why the Government be rebuild our NHS . community pharmacy will play a very important part in that . there be a debate next week on fix the NHS , where I be sure the Health Secretary will be keen to hear her thought about community pharmacy . in Sudan , 25 . 6 million people be face acute hunger , 10 . 7 million people have be displace since last year , and the World Food Programme be say that it be a race against time to stop the famine from escalate . it be a very grave situation , so can we have a debate in Government time to put a spotlight on what be happen in Sudan and the UK ' s response ? my hon . friend raise a really important matter and I think that be why Mr Speaker grant an urgent question on it early this week . there be a lot of interest in this House and it be raise with the Prime Minister yesterday at Prime Minister ' s question time . we continue to monitor the situation very closely . I will ensure , as I always do , that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Minister and Secretary of State do come to the House regularly to update we on these matter . last Friday , along with the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) and council leader , I meet National Highways specifically to raise the issue of the a180 , but also access to the major port of Immingham and Grimsby . irrespective of the amount of National Highways ' resource , surely the input from local representative be important . can we have a debate about how National Highways prioritise its various spending programme ? the hon . Gentleman raise a good point about the a180 in his constituency . he will be aware that in yesterday ' s Budget a significant increase in investment in our road be announce . there be also significant growth deal and devolution plan to ensure that local people be deliver the local transport need of their area . I be sure he can raise these issue at Transport question or in the forthcoming Budget debate . I call Chris Vince . thank you , Mr Speaker , for let I speak . [ interruption . ] genuinely , thank you very much . it be your job , but I appreciate it . two week ago , at my surgery , I meet medically retire chief fire officer Rod Wainwright . Rod be one of the first attender at the terrible tragedy of Grenfell seven year ago . subsequently , he have be medically retire because of post - traumatic stress disorder . he do not get the support he ask for from the fire service and the in - house counselling be not enough , and he have subsequently have issue with his pension . Rod blame himself for not be able to save more people on that terrible evening . do the Leader of the House agree that it be people like we , in this room , with suit on , who be to blame for the terrible tragedy of Grenfell , not hero like Rod Wainwright ? do she agree that further debate need to be have to support hero like Rod ? I thank my hon . friend for that very powerful question and contribution . I be really sorry to hear about the suffering that his constituent Rod Wainwright continue to suffer , have be in attendance at the Grenfell tower tragedy . the Prime Minister have make it clear that he still feel that survivor and the bereaved have be let down badly before , during and after , and that include those who attend as fire officer and other . there will be another debate on the Grenfell inquiry report in due course and I will make sure he be aware of that when it happen . in August , the Ministry of Justice inform Bristol Crown court that it would have to close courtroom and save over 400 sitting day before March 2025 . last week , the difficult decision be make to remove 40 trial list between now and the end of March . all the witness and defence have be tell that their trial would take place . Most have be wait over a year — two year , in some case . many of the 40 case be rape and serious sexual offence case where the accuse be on bail . the case will not be reliste until at least October 2025 . may we have a debate , so that the victim of rape and sexual abuse can understand why justice be so dreadfully delay , and how the Government will tackle the court backlog ? the hon . Lady raise a really important point . she will know that this Government be commit to ensure that there be justice for woman and girl who be subject to rape and violence . it be a scar on our society that that still take so long . she will know that the court backlog that she describe be another part of the legacy that this Government be try to deal with , along with the prison crisis and other in our criminal justice sector . we will have Justice question next week , and I be sure that the Secretary of State will be pleased to answer her question then . last weekend , I have the privilege of attend the Pride of Rossington award , where I meet many talented and amazing constituent who , every day , give back to their community by the bucketload . I be thrilled to learn that five remarkable athlete from Andy Crittenden ' s martial art centre in Rossington — Heidi , Joe , Millie , Ella and Millie - Leigh — will be compete in the WKC world championship this week . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate all the entrant and winner of the Pride of Rossington award , and in wish our athlete from Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme the very good of luck in the world championship ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate those remarkable athlete and all those who take part in the Pride of Rossington award ceremony in his constituency . I be delighted to wish the very good to his five constituent who be take part in the WKC world championship . we have hear concern about family business , and other member have speak this morning about work farming business . could the Leader of the House use her good office to put forward the priority of family business ? the assault of the Budget of broken promise have leave many of my constituent with family business very concerned . they be work people too , and they be worried about their right and their future . give the Government ' s interest in grant general debate , will she consider give time for a discussion of the wide - range need of family business ? the hon . Lady will be aware that the debate on the Budget will continue today and next week . if she be ask about farming business and the inheritance tax change — I think she be , tangentially — I will just repeat what I say to her colleague early : this Government be commit to food security and our rural and farming community , and that be why three quarter of those who currently receive the full relief will still get it after the change . we be bring about many other thing that will help the farming community , include a settlement that will provide £ 5 billion over two year for farming and land management , which will help restore stability in the sector . may I start by wish my wife and all those celebrate today a happy Diwali ? in Blackpool , we be promise a £ 300 million regeneration project — the big regeneration scheme in over a century — but unfortunately we have hear over the last few day and week that that be not go to happen . it be vital that such scheme happen in Blackpool , and many business and individual have come to I since ask for a state - of - the - art stadium - arena , similar to the Co - op arena in my right hon . friend ' s Manchester Central constituency . will she allow a debate in Government time on how the Government can support local seaside town like mine , with private business , to get the infra - structure they desperately need ? I be sorry to hear of the decision in my hon . friend ' s constituency , but he will know that , unfortunately , many of the commitment make by the previous Government to support project like the one he mention be commitment of fiction , because there be no money whatsoever allocate to they . this Government take support our community incredibly seriously . that be why we have boost local government funding , and why we be continue our drive to devolution . the Windsor Framework ( Retail Movement Scheme : Plant and Animal Health ) ( amendment etc . ) regulation 2024 have be lay before the House . they impose EU obligation on not just Northern Ireland but the whole United Kingdom . could we have a debate in Government time on the back - door creep of EU regulation ? the unelected House have already debate this matter ; should not the elect House ? we have debate these matter at length over many year . I will look into the statutory instrument to which the hon . and learn Gentleman refer , but as he know , we be keen to ensure that controversial statutory instrument be consider on the Floor of the House , for great scrutiny . will the Leader of the House give we time to debate the awful situation of the SNP ferry fiasco , which impact on the town of Ardrossan and Brodick , and my constituency of North Ayrshire and Arran more widely ? the Ardrossan to Brodick ferry route have be in place for around 190 year . owe to SNP mismanagement and a lack of robust negotiation , this vital route be now in jeopardy . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate member of the Save Ardrossan Harbour group , who be fight hard to save this crucial local service ? the ferry situation in Scotland be extremely serious , and it be about time it be bring to the House . I certainly congratulate my hon . friend ' s constituent on the work they be do to save this local service . she be absolutely right to say that the Scottish National party Government of Scotland have oversee huge mismanagement when it come to the long - await ferry service . they be late and over budget , and they just add to the £ 5 billion of taxpayer ' money that the Scottish Government have waste on pet project . far to the question from my hon . friend the Members for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , and for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , yesterday ' s Budget be a full - frontal financial attack on our farmer . the Leader of the House have decline to ensure a statement on the subject , but we have four more day of debate on the Budget . that mean that there be eight opportunity for the Environment Secretary or the Minister with responsibility for farming to open or close debate on one of those day , so that mps on both side of the House can fully hold the Government to account on their plan for farming . will the Leader of the House ensure that the Environment Secretary or Minister for farming open or close debate on one of those day ? as the hon . Gentleman know , he can raise any matter relate to the Budget in any of those debate , and a Cabinet Minister will respond . just as I take issue with his colleague , I take issue with he for his characterisation of the issue . we be commit to support farming , and farming community . we have a settlement that provide £ 5 billion over two year for farming , and we be prioritise the farm recovery fund . I be afraid that this stand in stark contrast to what the Conservatives do for farmer with their botched Brexit deal , the phasing out of farming payment and so on . it be no wonder that Labour win so many rural constituency at the last election , and we will continue to support those constituency go forward . I have visit Cotgrave community garden in my constituency several time , and it be do a fantastic job of address food insecurity , promote nutrition education and enhance mental wellbeing in our community . do the Leader of the House agree that it be important that this House consider how such organisation be put on a secure financial footing , so that we can support the long - term sustainability of community - lead initiative ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the Cotgrave community garden in his constituency . as have be mention in business question many time , include today , the role that community volunteer play in make our community great place in which to live , work and raise a family be absolutely vital . the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee be still in his place ; as I say early , this type of issue would make for a very good Backbench Business debate . I be aghast to hear that it be scaremongere to talk about the damage be do to agriculture . I can tell the House that the howl of concern in Dumfries and Galloway be real . we really need to discuss this issue , because Britain can not live by air - freight mangetout alone . the Budget imperil food security in this country , and we must have action on that . it be incredible that the Environment Secretary seem so uncaring . as my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) ask , can we please have the Secretary of State in the House for the Budget debate ? the Environment Secretary will be here for question in a couple of week ' time , and he come to the House regularly . I have to say , I find that some of the question this morning be scaremongere . we have make it clear that three quarter of the farming business that be entitle to the full relief will still get it after this Budget . we be talk about the top 25 % , and there be not a cliff edge in any case . we be fully commit to farmer , the farming community and food security in this country — I certainly do not buy import mangetout , as the hon . Gentleman may occasionally — and that be why the settlement announce yesterday provide £ 5 billion over two year for farming and land management , and why we have prioritise the farming recovery fund . recently , we welcome Restart a Heart Day to raise awareness of lifesave skill . that same week , five boy from my constituency , include two from Blackburn United community sport club , discover someone in an emergency situation , put they in the recovery position , call an ambulance and retrieve a defibrillator . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the boy on their swift action and clear thinking , and will she allocate Government time to debate vital first aid training in local community ? I also pay tribute to those boy , who rush towards danger , rather than turn away from the moment they face . my hon . friend raise an important point about first aid training and the now extensive use of defibrillator , which really be lifesave . I draw the House ' s attention to the neglected issue of water neutrality , which be often confuse with nutrient neutrality , but which require different solution . for the last two year , the local planning authority in my constituency have face the impossible task of obey two entirely contradictory law . one say that we have to build more than 900 house a year , and the other say that we can not build anything because of water neutrality consideration . the bizarre legal stand - off cause enormous difficulty . will the Leader of the House find time to debate the issue of water neutrality , so that we can find a fair and rational solution for my community ? the hon . member raise an important point , and I be sure that the House will debate these issue in the come week . we be consider such matter in our forthcoming planning and infrastructure Bill , and as he know , there be forthcoming piece of water regulation , and he may want to raise that point during debate on those . in 2019 , the Keswick Flood Action Group set out how thirlmere reservoir could be manage to greatly reduce the impact of major flooding , like that see in the town during Storm Desmond . will the Leader of the House make time to debate how water company ' infrastructure could be well use to prevent flooding in Penrith and Solway , and many other constituency ? my hon . friend raise a matter that be important for his constituency . that be one reason why today we be pleased to announce next week ' s flood preparedness debate , in which I be sure he will want to discuss these issue . it be also why the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have be take swift action on water reform to ensure that our water company play their part . the conservative party undercut farmer when they sign the UK - Australia trade deal , which allow for import that use practice ban in the UK . the Environment Secretary promise that he would prevent farmer and the UK ' s environmental and welfare standard from be sell out . will the Leader of the House bring her colleague together to set out how they intend to review the Australia free trade agreement , and can there be a debate in Government time on this matter ? it seem that a number of issue for the Environment Secretary be be raise this morning ; I will make sure that he be aware of they all , include the important point from the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) . he rightly point out that the farming community and farmer in this country be really let down by the previous Government as a result of the botched Brexit deal and other matter . this government be work at pace to ensure that we put food security and the future of our farmer back on the front foot . I recently meet business leader at the excellent White Rose business park in my constituency . they tell I that one of their key priority as they expand be recruit well train , well skilled and well educate staff . we welcome their expansion . will my right hon . friend make Government time for a debate on the need to work with council , mayor and , crucially , business to deliver a strong , upskilled workforce ? I congratulate White Rose business park , in my hon . friend ' s constituency , on its excellent work . this government will ensure that we have a skilled workforce for the future . we be pursue a range of measure , such as set up Skills England , as announce in yesterday ' s Budget . there be more money for further education , which be vital , and we be reform the apprenticeship levy . as he describe , devolve these area to local council and mayor will ensure that local skill provision be available for all . Father Marcelo P é rez , a priest and prominent figure in Mexico ' s Chiapas state , be kill while travel to his parish . Father Marcelo be deeply respect for his lifelong dedication to advocate for peace , justice and indigenous right in a region heavily impact by organised crime and violence . his loss have deeply shake his community and underscore the danger face by those who challenge violence and defend human dignity in Mexico . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn such violation of the freedom of religion or belief , and will she ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise this issue with its counterpart in Mexico ? the hon . Gentleman raise another important issue , as he do every single week , this time concern the freedom of religion or belief in Mexico . I will miss he next week , when we be not here for business question . he be a doughty campaigner on these matter , and I look forward to he be a regular attender , and raise many similar issue , in the forthcoming Backbench Business debate . business and commuter in Rossendale and Darwen be hamper daily by seemingly never - end disruptive roadwork . this be not just an annoyance ; it be actively hold back growth in the constituency , with major employer consider relocation . yesterday , I attend an excellent Westminster Hall debate on this subject and be pleased to see strong cross - party consensus on the need for action . do my right hon . friend agree that now be the time to properly address poorly plan and overrun roadwork ? will she provide time for further debate , if need ? as ever , my hon . friend raise a topical matter , and I know that it frustrate many constituent and member alike when roadwork be seemingly endless and not co - ordinated . in yesterday ' s Budget , the Government provide a huge boost to road maintenance budget , which I hope will help . additionally , we be consult on proposal to increase penalty , and even apply charge , when work overrun . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Councillor Ish Mistry and everyone involve in the wonderful diwali celebration on the street of Rugby on Sunday ? our diverse community be strengthen by the council ' s community warden service , which do much enforcement and referral work in partnership with our police and our Rugby First business improvement district ranger . will the Leader of the House consider a debate in Government time on the role of this vital ecosystem , which sit beneath policing and criminal justice in the public ' s consciousness ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate all those involve in Rugby ' s recent Diwali celebration . he be right to talk about the vital role of neighbourhood police . we be take forward our neighbourhood policing guarantee , because it be vital that people feel safe in their local community . last week , I have the privilege of visit Wales primary school in my constituency and meet its year 6 class , who be make sure that their school be an eco - school . they be take part in a number of initiative in their community , such as litter picking and recycling , and they even tell I off for not recycle sufficiently — I have take step to make up for that . will the Leader of the House join I in praise the year 6 student at Wales primary school ? will there be time in the House to debate how we can encourage sustainability across our education sector ? as Members of Parliament , we can all agree that there be no well occasion than a good telling off by a year 6 class . he be right that COP29 start in Baku very soon ; the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero will update the House on the progress of COP29 as soon as he can . international Men ' s Day , on Tuesday 19 November , celebrate the contribution make by man , and raise issue affect man ' s health and wellbeing , and gender equality , which be important to man and boy in my constituency . will the Leader of the House make Government time available to debate issue affect boy and man ? International Men ' s day be an important opportunity for we all to celebrate the contribution man make to our society . it might not be quite as much as the contribution of woman — no , I be joke . man make a very important contribution , and , as my hon . Friend say , the day highlight mental health issue . Suicide be still the big killer of man in this country , and we should all be very conscious of that . international Men ' s Day would make an excellent subject for a Backbench Business debate — the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee and I be discuss such debate only yesterday — so I encourage my hon . friend to make an application to the Committee . this week , I have the pleasure of receive a letter from Sycamore class of Slaithwaite Church of England junior and infant school . inspire by Marcus Sedgwick ' s novel " Floodland " , the student express their concern about climate change with remarkable insight and passion . the child ' s genuine concern and thoughtful suggestion highlight the urgency of address climate change . it be inspiring to see young mind so engaged and determined to make a difference . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the student of Slaithwaite Church of England junior and infant school on their excellent work ? will she encourage school across the country to educate pupil about climate change and the action need to address it ? it sound as if my hon . Friend also get a good go over by some pupil in his constituency — a good education for he , I be sure . I join he in congratulate the student of Slaithwaite Church of England junior and infant school on their work . climate change education and action inspire the next generation , and we will continue to support it . the Chamber be fill up nicely for the last contribution . I call Lee Barron . I be proud to be the last man stand , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 3 June 2024 , the Environment Agency grant a permit for the Corby incineration plant , despite there have be no public consultation since its original permit be modify . we now know that incinerator be widely regard as the dirty form of waste disposal . do the Leader of the House agree that it be time for a debate to review the condition under which such licence be issue and amend , especially in residential area ? concern about local incinerator often come up at business question , so a debate would be well attend , be my hon . friend to apply for one . he be right to point out that operator of incinerator must use the well available technology to minimise emission and meet strict emission limit . where that be not happen , he absolutely should be raise it with the Government . Budget Resolutions Income tax ( charge ) debate resume ( Order , 30 October ) . question again propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2025 - 26 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . it be a pleasure to open this day of the Budget debate with you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , for what will be my last contribution as shadow Chancellor . I be aware that may be a relief to member on the Government Benches , and possibly to those on the Opposition Benches as well . yesterday ' s Budget be the big tax - raise Budget in british history . it be a huge tax on business and take our tax burden up to german level for the first time . after the pandemic , the previous Government also put up taxis , but we start to bring they down , because high tax lead to low growth . indeed , the Office for Budget Responsibility say that yesterday ' s £ 40 billion of tax rise would lead to low pay , low living standard , high price and more expensive mortgage . without remorse and without hesitation , a triumphalist Government have rip up the pre - election promise that they make in the big ever assault on our economic competitiveness since the 1970 . let we look at the promise cast aside so casually . the Chancellor say that she would not change the debt target , because she be " not go to fiddle the figure or make something different to get well result " . yesterday , she do exactly that . in May she say that Labour policy " will be fully cost and fully fund . no ifs , no and , no but " — and no additional tax rise . a total of 30 time this year , she promise not to do exactly what she do yesterday . she even say that she want to bring the burden of tax down . ordinary family , small business and work people believe she . yesterday , they be betray . it go far . when we say in the election that taxis would go up by £ 2 , 000 per household over four year , the Leader of the Opposition at the time accuse the then Prime Minister of a deliberate lie . three month on , they will go up not by £ 2 , 000 over four year , but by £ 2 , 000 every year . Paul Johnson call it a " straightforward breach of a manifesto commitment " . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have today say : " the continued pretence that these change will not affect work people risk far undermine trust . " the OBR say that 76 % of the impact of the national insurance rise would pass through to low wage . and because the Government plan this all along , we now know why they rush so fast to concoct the fiction of a black hole — something that be not corroborate by the OBR yesterday . it be cover not just to raise national insurance , but to impose countless other tax rise on work people : capital gain tax up ; energy taxis up ; stamp duty up ; and taxis on family farm up — something we will oppose , for the sake of farmer up and down the country . work people whose wage the Chancellor promise to protect will see they go down ; business whose profit fund new investment will see they raid ; market to which she promise stability be absorb the big tax - and - spend Budget in a generation ; and all of we on the outside be leave wonder which be bad , the damage to the economy or the damage to trust . there be not one person on the Opposition Benches who be not concerned about the inheritance tax change . if I be honest , I do not think there be one member on the Government Benches who represent a farming community and be not also worried . the measure have be universally condemn by all the farmer I have speak to , and I live in a farming community . the National Farmers Union , the Ulster Farmers Union and other be up in arm about this inheritance tax . the sum of £ 1 million draw everybody into that scheme , and because of that , we must vote against it . I say to those on the government Benches : guy , you have get it wrong , and this time you will be condemn . when it come to election time , the people who you have hurt will remember . please stop use " you " , Mr Shannon . I thank my hon . friend — I say " my hon . friend " because he be a great friend to we — for what he have say and I could not agree with he more . when we talk about stability , anybody who have run a business know that the most stable business in the country be family business that be pass from generation to generation . this be not just about farm , but about any small business that be pass down through the generation . this be a hammer blow to their plan to invest for the future . I wish to move on , because the main argument that the Government make — I be sure that we will hear this from the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster — be that all this be necessary to improve public service . we on the Conservative Benches want to say , right up front , that it be absolutely right to prioritise public service . as Health Secretary , I negotiate an increase in the NHS budget of £ 20 billion a year , and , in this year ' s Budget , I increase it by a furth £ 6 billion . many time I say as Chancellor that I want to avoid austerity cut to public service . we would have do so this time , not by use tax rise that harm work family and business , but by take difficult decision on welfare reform and productivity — decision that be duck yesterday . may I suggest that the difference between my right hon . friend ' s Budget and this one be that , although he give considerable extra increase to the national health service , he couple they with a need to increase productivity ? there be no word in yesterday ' s Budget about increase productivity in the health service . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , but there be an even more basic difference between our budget early this year and this one : as a result of measure in our Budget , the growth rate go up , whereas as a result of measure in Labour ' s Budget , the growth rate go down . reduce the number of working - age people claim health - relate benefit back to pre - pandemic level would save £ 34 billion a year . it would bring more people into the workforce and improve the wellbeing of the individual concern , but welfare reform be drop from the King ' s Speech , and yesterday ' s Budget see the welfare bill rise by an average of £ 13 billion a year . accord to the OBR , increase public sector productivity — another area that we do not hear much about — to pre - pandemic level would raise £ 20 billion a year . we hear some warm word about that , but deliver it require difficult negotiation with the union . that be too difficult for the Government , who cancel plan to reduce the civil service to pre - pandemic level , increase the salary of train driver by £ 10 , 000 , and give junior doctor a 22 % pay rise — all without ask for a single productivity improvement in return . it be no string for the union , but no help for 2 . 5 million pensioner in poverty . the Government should be ashamed . pick the pocket of business , which do not vote , be the easy path , but when it damage economic growth , the result be less money for the NHS , less money for school and less money for the armed force , which be why , in the end , Labour government always run out of money . the right hon . Member be keen to quote the IFS early . do he also agree with the IFS that " it be not credible for Jeremy Hunt to claim that plan departmental spending limit would hold " and there be " no world in which 2 per cent rise would have happen and be sustain " ? hear , hear . I always listen to the IFS , and indeed to the Resolution Foundation , very carefully . I think that the IFS be right — [ interruption . ] let I answer the point , if I may . the IFS be right to say that it would be very challenging to hold to 1 % spending assumption , but in the Budget early this year I explain exactly how we would do that . I ask the NHS , " how be we go to improve efficiency so that we can live within tight spending limit ? " the NHS say , " we need to overhaul the IT system . " we give the NHS £ 3 . 5 billion to do so , and in return it be able to deliver 2 % productivity saving . indicate dissent . the hon . member shake his head , but yesterday the Chancellor say that she be go to roll that out to the whole of the public sector . I think that it be possible to do so ; my concern be that do so involve difficult decision , and the track record of this Government be that when those decision involve a conversation with the union , they run a mile . the final spurious claim from the Chancellor be that yesterday ' s draconian measure be necessary because she have receive the bad economic inheritance since world war two . not a single independent economist support that claim , and it be not hard to see why . inflation be at 1 . 7 % , around half what it be in 2010 . unemployment be at 4 % , nearly half the 2010 level . if the public finance be in the same state today that they be in back in 2010 , the deficit would now be £ 160 billion high , which be the entire budget of the NHS . instead , we leave behind a deficit that have be halve , and be low than that of France , Germany , Italy , Japan and the United States . if the last government ' s attempt at lever investment into the economy be so successful , why in 2022 be the UK 28th out of 31 OECD country for business investment ? the truth be that the last Government fail to reform the economy to lever in that investment to pay for the growth in our public service . let I tell the hon . Gentleman exactly what happen to business investment under the last Government . since 2010 , we attract more foreign greenfield direct investment than not just anywhere in Europe , but anywhere in the world apart from the United States and China . that be foreigner vote with their dollar as to where they want to invest in the world , and they say , " outside the United States and China , there be nowhere that we want to invest more than the United Kingdom . " compare that with what the OBR say about yesterday ' s budget : business investment will not just fall , but fall by even more than the amount of the extra investment cause by public investment go up . do the right hon . Gentleman deny that business investment be the low in the G7 under his government ? if the Government be so successful , do he also deny that in that respect the UK be 28th out of the 31 OECD country ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that for decade we have have low business investment in the UK economy than our peer . that be why , in the autumn statement a year ago , I introduce full expensing , which be the big business tax request , to make it more attractive to invest in new factory , capital , machinery , here than anywhere else in the OECD , and that be widely welcome . the other part of our legacy — the so - call bad inheritance since the second world war — be the fast - grow economy in the G7 , and one that the IMF say would grow fast than Italy , France , Germany or Japan over the next five year . the Government probably think it be a clever political trick to rubbish their inheritance , but trash - talk the british economy have real - world consequence . we see the sharp decline in consumer confidence since the beginning of the pandemic . Lloyds bank , KPMG and the Institute of Directors all say that business confidence have plummet . the former chief economist of the Bank of England say that the Chancellor have generate " fear and foreboding " and uncertainty among consumer , among business , and among investor in UK plc . and we see high bond yield , lead to high debt interest payment . careless talk cost job and money , and this Government have be careless . what every economist do , however , agree be that if we be to increase our living standard to german or american level we need high productivity , and that mean more investment . but accord to the OBR , yesterday ' s measure will mean low investment overall . high public investment be more than offset by low business investment because of huge tax increase . Lloyds bank say that the increase in employer ' national insurance be a " handbrake " on investment . ukhospitality say it be a " tax on job " and " make it hard to employ people and to take a risk on recruitment and expansion . " the Federation of Small Businesses say it will shrink small business employment , and the Institute of Directors have liken it to the poll tax . the shadow Chancellor mention hospitality . overnight I have discussion with the local hospitality industry in Cheltenham . they have two piece of feedback . the first be that they be very worried about some of yesterday ' s announcement on relief and national insurance , and the second be that the Budget be not as bad as the Liz Truss Budget . I wonder whether he prefer yesterday ' s Budget or the Liz Truss one . I actually like neither . I be the person who reverse the decision make in the mini - Budget , but I will say this : at least Liz Truss want to grow the economy and say so explicitly . what we have yesterday be a Budget where the Government ' s official forecaster say the impact would be low growth , few job and low investment . we be promise the most pro - growth Government in history , but in just 17 week we have end up with german taxis and french labour law , high taxis , high mortgage , less investment , low wage , low living standard and low growth , less money for public service on which we all depend , and less money in the pocket of work people — same old labour , same old spin . it didn ' t end well before and it win ' t end well this time , either . the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) have confirm that this be his last appearance at the Dispatch Box , at least in his current guise , so I begin by thank he for his service to government and to the country . he and I have something in common : we both inherit an awful mess from our predecessor . he be appoint Chancellor of the Exchequer as the repair man — the adult in the room — and be mean to sort thing out after the disaster leave by his predecessor . he be suppose to be the antidote to Liz Truss , but in recent day , he have become an ally of Liz Truss , unite with she in attack the OBR . he be bring in to praise the economic institution , but he have end up condemn they . however , he can not hide from the verdict : the OBR have confirm that the previous Government hide billion of pound of pressure that they know about , and the Treasury have give we a full picture of precisely what those pressure add up to . the right hon . Gentleman state that a full breakdown be provide by the Treasury yesterday , but that be just not true . in fact , the chair of the OBR say on " Sky News " last night : " nothing in our review be a legitimisation of that £ 22 billion " claim . that be he make it very clear that the OBR do not support and have not endorse the claim in the Treasury report . will the right hon . Gentleman now confirm , with a simple yes or no , that the OBR do not legitimise that claim ? let I read what the OBR have say : " the Treasury do not share information with the OBR about the large pressure on RDEL , about the unusual extent of commitment against the reserve … have this information be make available , a materially different judgement … would have be reach . " perhaps the right hon . Gentleman ought to read the next paragraph , in which the OBR say that it be " not possible to judge " how much those pressure would have be offset by saving elsewhere , which demonstrate that they be within the range of the normal cost reduction that a Chief Secretary to the Treasury would make ahead of any Budget . the right hon . Gentleman suggest that thing get well after February . they do not ; they get bad , and that be how we get to £ 22 billion . this be not just a verdict about what happen but an indictment of the conservative party ' s final period in office . the truth be that , under his watch , the Treasury have stop do the basic job of control expenditure . announcement be make with no money set aside , the asylum and hotel bill be fund by empty the country ' s reserve within the first few month of the financial year , hospital building programme be announce without the necessary fund set aside to pay for they , a pay award sit on a Secretary of State ' s desk while they look the other way , and compensation scheme be announce without the full fund be set aside to pay for they . that be an irresponsible dereliction of duty that have lead to we pick up the piece and to the right hon . Gentleman attack the independent watchdog that be set up by his own party . even his predecessor , the former Member for Spelthorne , admit this morning that Labour be clear up the Tory mess . if conservative member be more out of touch with reality than the former Member for Spelthorne , let I tell they that that be not a good place to be . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the IFS , which say this morning that the Chancellor " be not wrong to stress that she get a hospital pass on the public finance . " will the right hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I have give way once . I thank he for give way — oh . no , I be not give way . the Conservatives talk about their golden legacy , and we hear the former Chancellor read out some of his great hit . who be they kid ? the last Parliament be the bad on record for living standard , with british family bad off than their french and german counterpart . his Government have the second low growth in the G7 since the pandemic and the high inflation in the G7 since the pandemic . they leave a prison system overflow and just day away from collapse , and rather than take responsibility for it , they cut and run and call an early election . I have to give the previous Government credit : some thing do grow on their watch , such as hospital waiting list , housing waiting list , shoplifting , insecure work and the decline of our high street . that be their record , and it fall to we to fix it and start to rebuild Britain , so there be no point in come to this Chamber and pretend that people be make it all up . the former Chancellor talk about business . his party stuff business — his colleague , the former Prime Minister , say " eff business " , and then the Conservatives carry out the policy . under they , we have the low business investment in the G7 . why ? because of constant chaos in their government , mean that business do not know who would be lead they from one year to the next ; because they cave in to their Back Benchers and block anything substantial from be build ; and because business could not hire the worker they need with so many people on the sick . this could have be a Budget where we just muddle through — patch up some mistake make by the conservative party and hope something would turn up — but that be not good enough . we have have that time and again . in fact , we have have 14 year of it — long enough to show that that approach be not go to work . the country vote for change , and this be a Budget to deliver change . it be not a time for more of the same ; it be a time to choose . we do not duck the challenge or look the other way ; we confront the challenge , because that be what the country need . this be the moment when the country turn a corner and set out a proper plan for the year to come . we do make tax change in this Budget , which be never an easy thing to do . that be because the first thing we have to do be fix the foundation and put the public finance on a sound footing . with this Budget , we say how we will pay for what we will do . the first fiscal rule announce by the Chancellor be to fund day - to - day spending from the revenue that we raise , a rule that the OBR judge will be meet two year early . the IMF , to which the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash refer , have today welcome " the Budget ' s focus on boost growth through a need increase in public investment while address urgent pressure on public service " , so let I turn to those public service . secondly , there will be more NHS appointment to get waiting list and time down ; more technology to improve productivity ; more prevention to stop people fall ill in the first place ; new surgical hub and diagnostic centre ; a hospital - build programme bring from fiction to reality , this time found on more than hot air ; new school to help child learn ; more teacher to bring out the good in every child ; and more investment in further education to give people the skill they need . it be investment and reform together — not just more money into the same system , but change the system for a new age , with productivity target alongside the extra money . the right hon . Gentleman also talk about welfare spending , but the Conservatives have plenty of time to sort out welfare spending . their legacy be almost 3 million people out of work because of long - term sickness . the truth be that they do not have a plan , but they do have a record , and again , it fall to we to sort that record out . we will take tough action on welfare fraud , and we will not give up on those who can work and make a contribution , because we understand that when the sick can get treat and when every child of every background have the good chance to learn , that be not just good for they and their family but for the economy as a whole . thirdly , this Budget put in place help with the cost of live for million : a rise minimum wage with extra help for young worker , fuel duty frozen , carer allow to earn more , the triple lock protect , the household support fund extend to help the poor , and low deduction from universal credit . those be the choice that we make — real help for million of people . finally , we reject the path of decline for investment that the Conservatives be plan . they want to cut public investment by a third . that be the right hon . Gentleman ' s plan — to once again cut back on the house building , school , hospital and transport project that the country need . that be a path of decline that have be choose too often in the past . the Tories do not yet have a leader , and the only policy to come out of their leadership contest so far be to cut maternity pay , but on the question of investment , they do have a position . budget be about choice , and yesterday they choose : the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) rail against our new investment rule , and more conservative Members have speak out since . what do that mean their position be ? new money for housing — oppose . new money for school — oppose . new money for pothole — oppose . new money for research — oppose . investment in the future itself — oppose by the Conservative party . I understand the peril of opposition . we have have long enough experience of it , but if the Conservatives really want to run around the country oppose every new investment over the come four or five year , be our guest . yes , this Budget be a big choice , and in oppose the investment within it , the Conservatives have make a big choice too . we will remind they of it , project after project , year after year . they want to lock we into the world that voter reject just four short month ago . my right hon . friend have mention the policy , or lack thereof , that have come out of the Tory leadership contest . unfortunately , I spend an evening watch the GB News debate between the Tory leadership contender , and the one policy that one of the contender say she would put in place on day one as Prime Minister be a tax cut for private school . that be the priority of the modern conservative party : oppose the investment in this Budget while offer tax cut for the very rich . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , although I have to say that his television view choice be a little bit different from mine . with regard to education , we have always say that we support aspiration for all child in every type of school . our growth plan be about far more than this Budget . they be about plan reform to get Britain building , a challenge that be duck by the Conservative party year after year . they be about more clean energy for energy security . they be about private investment , with £ 63 billion of investment announce at our investment summit just a few week ago — investor be finally appreciate the stability that have come to the country after the chaos work by the conservative party — and they be about reform of business rate to support our neglect high street . this be a big moment for the country . in July , the public do not vote to carry on as we be — they do not vote to continue with the plan of the conservative party . they vote for change , and this be a Budget for change : not just change in policy , but face up to the reality of what the conservative party leave behind . it be a Budget to stabilise the public finance , to help people with the cost of living , to begin to turn our public service around , and to start to rebuild Britain . it be a choice between investment and decline — a turning of the page after 14 year . it be a Budget that launch a new chapter for Britain , and we will be proud to vote for it in the Lobby next week . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate in response to the first ever Budget deliver by a female Chancellor . this Government have inherit a mess , and we know that the cause of that mess be the legacy of reckless economic mismanagement leave behind by the previous Government . the Liberal Democrats be glad that the Chancellor have listen to our call for investment and support for the NHS to start repair all the damage do to local health service by the Conservatives . we will continue to stand up for our constituent , and press the Government to act with urgency and to provide the support to public service that be so desperately need . the NHS have be stretch to its limit after year of conservative neglect , and the liberal Democrats have be tirelessly campaign for an emergency health and social care budget to get it back on its foot . we therefore welcome yesterday ' s announcement . however , we need to see outcome , include people be able to see a gp within 7 day , cancer treatment target be meet and people have a dentist appointment when they need one . we will hold the Government to account for deliver on these issue . million of people have a long - term health condition that make they too ill to work and million more be stick on NHS waiting list . many other can not leave hospital because there be no care provision . the Liberal Democrats have always understand that we can not have a thriving economy and strong public finance until we fix the crisis in health and social care , so we welcome some of the step that the Government announce in this direction yesterday . the Liberal Democrats have campaign on improve support for carer . while I be glad that the Government ' s review will look again at get rid of the cliff edge for carer ' s allowance and the earning limit , I hope that the Chancellor and her colleague will consider a broad review to give family carer the support they deserve . we will hold they to account for ensure that this new funding be deliver for patient and carer , include through extra gp and hospital appointment . I also welcome the promise make by the Chancellor yesterday of full compensation for the victim of both the contaminate blood scandal and the Horizon scandal , and I hope that that can be deliver quickly to bring the victim close to the justice they deserve . the previous Conservative Government yet again show themselves to be totally shameless with the revelation that , while they promise to compensate the victim of the hideous infected blood scandal , they entirely neglect to set aside the fund to actually pay for they . it be essential that there be transparency in Government spending , and we be glad that the Government be strengthen the power of independent body , such as the OBR , to ensure that taxpayer receive value for money . we be glad that , during the Chancellor ' s Budget , she commit to invest to modernise the system of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs use the very good technology , and we be glad that she have commit to recruit additional HMRC compliance and debt staff . invest in HMRC reduce the risk to business and individual in navigate the bureaucratic and often complex process associate with this service . I have hear from business in my constituency of the risk they face by not be able to directly speak to someone at HMRC . strengthen these service with great resource should benefit not only business , but all those require to complete self - assessment . great resource will protect citizen from unfair charge , include the loan charge , and allow people to access clear advice and support , make our tax system more efficient . while I be pleased to support many of the announcement make by the Chancellor yesterday , I be concern by her decision to raise employer ' s national insurance contribution . I fear that this will be deeply damaging to many already struggle small business and care provider , so we urge the Government to at least consider exempt social care from the employer ' s national insurance tax rise . the Chancellor have provide extra funding for the NHS and other public sector organisation to cover the cost of the tax rise . however , the vast majority of care provider be in the private sector , so will not benefit from this help . small business be the beat heart of our local economy . for year under the last Conservative Administration , these business have struggle , have to carry the burden of rise energy price , interest rate and the red tape of the Conservative ' s Brexit deal . I urge the Government to go far than the announcement make yesterday on business rate by fundamentally overhaul the break business rate system , which be destroy our high street and town centre . the Liberal Democrats believe that there be much fairer way of raise revenue . our manifesto set out our call for a fair tax system , include raise money by reverse the Conservatives ' tax cut for the big bank , or by ask the social medium giant to pay a bit more . we do not believe that it be right or fair for the Government to instead increase the burden on small and medium - sized business , which be the engine of our economy and which be already struggle under the unfair tax system set out by the last Conservative Government . we welcome yesterday ' s news of increase funding for school . support child and young people must be central to any Government policy . after school be leave to crumble by the last government , we be glad to see an increase investment in education . however , the liberal Democrats oppose end the vat exemption for independent school . we do not support tax education , and we believe parent should have a choice about how they educate their child . we be disappoint that at no point in the Chancellor ' s Budget be there a mention of Europe . the Government can not indefinitely ignore the damage that the Conservative ' s shambolic Brexit deal continue to have on our economy . do you not think the fact that you be support all the spending commitment but none of the tax rise be the reason that the Lib Dems will never be in government — order . sit down , please . the hon . Gentleman say " you " twice . rise — I be not go to allow the hon . Gentleman to continue . I be glad the hon . Gentleman have raise that point . I refer he to our general election manifesto in which , as I have already say , we set out a range of tax - raise measure , include reverse the Conservatives ' tax cut on big bank and tax the social medium giant . there be plenty of way that the Government could have raise taxis more fairly than by place additional burden on small business , which will be the engine of economic growth . Brexit be another reason why our economy be not grow in the way it should . I urge the Government to acknowledge the seriousness of yesterday ' s report from the OBR outline the continual damage that Brexit red tape cause UK business , and the OBR finding that weak growth of trading , exacerbate by Brexit , will reduce the overall trade intensity of the UK economy by 15 % in the long term . we understand that rebuild our relationship with Europe be a gradual process . however , we be disappointed that the Government have rule out join the single market in the future , even when relationship improve . we urge they to consider the breadth of benefit that a strengthen trading relationship with Europe would bring . the Liberal Democrats want to forge a new partnership with our european neighbour — build on co - operation , not confrontation — and to move to a new comprehensive agreement . do my hon . friend agree that , although the new Government say they want to reset their relationship with Europe , if the no . 1 thing on the European Union ' s mind be a youth mobility scheme that the Government be rule out , they be not go to get very far ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point , and she be absolutely right . the first thing we should be do be negotiate a youth mobility scheme . we owe it to our young people , who be struggle more than most in the current economic environment . the mismanagement of our economy by the outgoing Conservative Government have leave deep challenge , and we understand that undo that damage will not be easy . nevertheless , it be not right for the consequence of these decision and for this burden to be carry by some of the most vulnerable in our society . in July , I urge the Chancellor to remove the two - child limit on social security payment in her first Budget , and we be disappointed that this do not happen . no child should grow up without adequate food , a warm home or security for their future . currently , 1 . 6 million child be affect by the two - child benefit cap . parent subject to these limitation have less available income for childcare cost , and therefore experience barrier to employment . the Liberal Democrats believe that remove this cap be the most cost - effective way of immediately lift child out of poverty and get more parent back into the workforce . I and my liberal Democrat colleague have also listen to our constituent and hear from countless pensioner who be worried about how they will afford their energy bill this winter . since the cut to the winter fuel payment be announce , I have be inundate with expression of local people ' s disappointment at this decision . we will continue to urge the Government to give their full support to measure to boost the uptake of pension credit , and to ensure that all those eligible for pension credit claim both the benefit itself and the winter fuel payment . for year , the previous Government fail to keep our community safe from crime . it be vital that the new Government urgently restore the proper community police that local people deserve . I ask the Government to clarify how and when the Chancellor will fund the thousand of new neighbourhood officer that her Government have promise . the Metropolitan Police Service have draw on its financial reserve , slash spending and sell off asset . during the election , our constituency be promise more community police officer , but the Met have already make cut and saving of over £ 1 billion , and next year it be face a funding gap of over £ 450 million . the Liberal Democrats be pleased to see the Chancellor ' s goody bag of infrastructure project , yet I personally be disappoint that this do not extend to fund for Hammersmith bridge . some 22 , 000 vehicle a day use to cross the bridge , and those car be now cause gridlocke traffic throughout my constituency in Mortlake , East Sheen and Barnes . it will cost £ 250 million to fix Hammersmith bridge , a sum no local authority can afford to pay , so I hope the Government will consider what more they can do to assist with the bridge ' s reopen . we all agree that we need economic growth and a stable economy after the chaos cause by the last government . we know that this dire economic situation require tough decision . I welcome many of the step that the Chancellor announce yesterday , but the Government must ensure that this do not come at the expense of the most vulnerable . I ask the Government to set out a timeline for the delivery of their proposal for investment , and I urge they to act with the urgency require to ensure that people can access the service they need when they need they . the cost of living crisis will not be solve by hit family , pensioner , family farm and struggle small business , and our economy will not grow strongly again unless we repair our broken relationship with Europe . I call Tom Collins to make his maiden speech . as a boy , I remember walk to the shop with my mum and pass our near pub . its name , the Lord Protector , confuse I at the time , and I later learn that I share a home town with one Oliver Cromwell , so perhaps I should feel at home in this place . have say that , I confess that the near pub to my first family home be the Cavalier . that be because I represent , and be proud to call my home , the faithful city of Worcester . famous among historian as the site of both the first and final armed conflict of the english civil war , Worcester be see by many as the birthplace of modern parliamentary democracy , and that be fitting for our city . nestle on the great River Severn and in the shelter of the ancient malvern hill , Worcester be one of England ' s good keep secret . rooted in the beauty of nature , and richly decorate by a long and varied history , Worcester be a city deeply inform by the past , and with a record of deeply inform the future . throughout its history , it have continuously express creativity , enterprise and innovation , and through the stir music of Elgar , the creation of the world ' s first combine hydroelectric power station , and even the establishment of the British Medical Association , the people of Worcester have be shape the future of the world for millennia . we be home to Berrow ' s Worcester Journal , the old newspaper still in print , and of course we manufacture Lea & Perrins ' s famous Worcestershire sauce . have give a flavour of our city , I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor in this place , Robin Walker . wherever I go , be it in this place or in my constituency , people consistently speak well of Robin , who win the affection of many with whom he work . he work with passion and dedication to improve education , and for that I offer my sincere thank , and that of many other . Worcester be home to many small and independent business that contribute hugely to our distinctive culture — during the election , I visit Spin the Black Circle and Script Haven , to give just two example — as well as to some large company that , in the same spirit , be express our nation ' s creativity and shape its future . I have be privileged to work with team of talented people at Worcester Bosch , invent the technology of the future to grow and decarbonise our economy . if any Member would appreciate an in - depth discussion on heat pump or hydrogen , I be always happy to indulge , be an enthusiastic engineer by background . it be my belief that release innovation by invest in the talent , passion and skill of our emerge leader , creator and problem solver be key — key to our mission for growth , which be the guide light of this Budget , and key to decarbonise our economy through industrial renewal , rebuild our NHS , and put people at the heart of all we do . today , we be do the vital work of fix the foundation , because this kind of history - write ambition be exactly what this place be for . Worcester , and its incredible community of dedicated and talented people , be ready to deliver an exciting vision for the future , with our school , college , and the Hive — one of the large child ' s library in the UK — ready to grow the next generation . the Budget ' s commitment to take the first step towards the renewal of our school , and especially its provision for child with special educational need and disability , will be very welcome in Worcestershire . with the University of Worcester continue our heritage through teacher training , Worcester Business School and Three Counties Medical School , where prospective Prime Ministers can reliably capture a good selfie , as well as a wealth of innovative business and creative in the digital space , include the Kiln , now host BetaDen , our community have the vision for people and nature to flourish . it be lead by local people such as Worcester Environmental Group , our cathedral ' s eco - group , and project such as Bramblewood . it be a hub of culture , with art at the Swan theatre , the Scala project and the Arches , and have a grow track record in disability sport , historic world - class cricket at New Road , our fantastic city football club , and hopefully soon the return of professional rugby with the Warriors . we be also very good in a tug of war ! inform by the past and inform the future , Worcester have teach I that the key be to put people first , dream big , and unleash the creativity of diverse team to shape the future . I come to politic with a passion to tackle climate change , see an end to modern slavery , and put leadership and vision back at the heart of politic . let we remember that throughout the long history of this place , we , like Worcester , have never linger on the past . as the Budget empower we to do , let we continue always to fix our gaze with ambition , clarity , and focus on the creation of a bright and prosperous future . well do . your family will be very proud indeed . may I start by pay a huge tribute to the hon . member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) for his maiden speech ? it be clear , and he pay a sincere tribute to his predecessor , for whom we all have a great deal of affection . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will have a great future in this place , and I look forward to hear more speech from he . I agree with the final remark make by the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster : this Budget mark a new chapter in the economic performance of this country , it be true , but I suspect that his prediction and mine , which I will make clear in my speech , be rather different . start on the plus side , there be measure in the Budget that we should welcome . my constituent who live in rural area will be particularly pleased that fuel duty be to be freeze for another year , because often they have very little choice in how to get to work ; they must do so by car . as I say in an intervention yesterday , I welcome certain Government contingency , such as on the infected blood and Horizon scandal , that have now be fund . the onus be very much on the new Government to ensure that the people affect be pay as quickly as possible , even if only with an interim payment , so that they can start , at long last , to rebuild their life . spend on special educational need in Gloucestershire be a particular problem , so increase funding will be welcome by parent whose child need help in that area . the Public Accounts Committee hold several session in the last Parliament on rebuild school and hospital , particularly those affect by asbestos and reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , commonly know as RAAC . we also look at the huge project of restoration and renewal in this House . if the government get those investment project under way , I will welcome it , but the PAC will scrutinise they to see how we can get value for money . contrary to what be say in leak to the press before the Budget , the pension industry appear to have be largely untouched in the Budget — perhaps Ministers will confirm that when they wind up the debate — and the trick now be to encourage large pension fund to invest in UK infrastructure . we do not hear anything about that in the Budget yesterday , but I know that the Government be think about it . as predict , we have a high fiscal burden in this country under this Labour Government than ever in our history . the Office for Budget Responsibility could not find the fabled £ 22 billion black hole ; instead , it find £ 9 . 5 billion associate with deteriorate circumstance , and that will happen to any Government in any fiscal year ; £ 9 . 5 billion be equivalent to some of the public sector pay increase that we have see , particular to highly pay train driver . the Chancellor have increase taxis and borrowing by a staggering £ 40 billion each — the large increase in any Budget for 30 year . the Conservatives leave office with low inflation , high employment , particularly for young people , and the fast grow economy in the G7 . in stark contrast , in this Budget the Chancellor have put up national insurance , and we have inheritance tax up , capital gain tax up , mortgage up , stamp duty up , employment cost up , and business confidence down . the OBR have downgrade our GDP growth , base on the Budget , in every year of the next five - year forecast . that will affect everybody in this country ; they will continue to see their living standard fall as a result . there be lot of topic that I would like to cover , but I have choose to cover those that will affect my constituent most adversely . first be national debt . UK national debt be £ 2 . 5 trillion , which be not far off 100 % of gdp , and it be grow at a staggering rate of almost £ 16 million an hour , or £ 400 million a day . the interest for service the debt have now reach more than £ 100 billion , which be equivalent to the budget of the fifth large Department , and it be completely dead money . as a result of the Budget , the debt will rise even far , by £ 50 billion , involve even high servicing cost , which will result in high taxis to pay for it in future year . on a really important point , the OBR have forecast that national debt will triple over the next 50 year . that be completely unsustainable and should be a real wake - up call to the fact that we have to correct that dire structural problem . but the Budget have make the problem far bad . we can not just change the rule to make the result sound well . interest rate , include mortgage , will be high for long , and our child and grandchild will now be saddle with the debt , which they will have to repay , for long . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his recent appointment as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . would he like to apologise for the £ 22 billion black hole that the previous Government leave behind , and the contribution that make to the awful debt situation that the Government inherit ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment about my election , and the PAC look forward to scrutinise all Government expenditure carefully . he have fall into the same trap as everybody else . unfortunately , the OBR say yesterday that it could not find the £ 22 billion black hole . I do not have the exact quote , but the Government be advise , " when in a black hole , stop dig . " I suggest gently to Labour member that they stop dig , because it could not be find . the Chancellor announce that she expect national insurance contribution to rise by a staggering £ 25 billion , although she promise in the election that they would not . during the election , she say that the measure would not be a tax on work people ; clearly she believe that entrepreneur , who spend their time , energy and talent form new business , be different . they will be heavily tax , and change the employment rule will make it more difficult to employ extra people . a 15 % national insurance tax and a savage cut to the threshold , down from £ 9 , 100 to £ 5 , 000 , will harm any business in my constituency employ more than four people . it could be the difference between a business grow and provide more job and a business not survive . we must all remember that the private sector , and individual who work hard and put their livelihood on the line , take financial risk to boost productivity and provide the growth the country need , and they must be nurture if they be to succeed . small business account for more than 90 % of all business . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? the hon . Gentleman can have a try , too . I run a small business for at least 10 year . do the hon . Gentleman welcome the increase in the Budget to the allowance on national insurance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , which will protect small business and help they grow ? I have run a business for a much long time than that . there be many measure in the Budget that will be very deleterious , especially for the small business , and we will have to wait and see how they turn out . the Budget will have serious implication for farmer and rural community in my constituency . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as a farmer . I be incredibly disappointed that from 2026 , agricultural property relief and business property relief will apply only to the first £ 1 million of asset . that will worry many in my farming community and those in many other constituency . it will result in few farm to rent . equally damaging will be the cap on the amount that can be transfer to spouse for inheritance tax purpose . the purpose of that tax relief be to ensure that work farm that provide our food will not have to be split up after the death of a family member . very few farm be value under £ 1 million — basically only those of less than 100 acre be — and the rest will face a 20 % tax . that will lead to the loss of job and livelihood in the North Cotswolds and elsewhere . it will change the fabric of our countryside permanently . the structure and productivity of agriculture will change as more and more farm be split up and sell off as a result of this measure . I accept that the hon . Gentleman have great experience in farming , but do he read the analysis by Professor Andy Summers of the London School of Economics , which show that the £ 1 million relief be on top of the £ 1 million couple allowance ? the benchmark be really £ 200 million farm , and the average estate value be low , so only about 200 estate will be affect a year . in this case , only a small number of UK farmer will be affect , and it be not the armageddon for farm that the Conservatives be claim . I suggest gently to the hon . Gentleman that , whatever the number , if the change cause damage to the farming sector and the productivity of food production , it be not helpful , and nor do it raise much money . what we surely want be measure in the Budget and elsewhere to boost the productivity of our agricultural sector so that we can produce more of the food we eat ourselves , rather than import it from the rest of the world . I encourage the Chancellor to release any impact assessment she have do on this measure . I hope that she will reconsider this proposal , although I doubt she will . I now turn to a topic that I have mention many time , and one that I will continue to raise with the Treasury . the Chancellor have talk about the difficult decision that she have have to make on tax and spending to promote growth . may I suggest one specific policy area , tax - free shopping , which have the potential to increase growth considerably ? since we leave the EU , british people have be able to shop tax - free in european state . however , we have not give the same advantage to wealthy visitor visit the UK to spend their money here and benefit our economy . that disincentive to visit the UK will be bad if visa cost be increase . I have talk to some of the big business involve in this area , and they be see that instead of visit the UK people be go to Paris , Madrid or Milan to do their duty - free shopping . we be lose out as a result . that whole new market , unique to the UK , be worth an estimate £ 10 billion annually in foreign spending and would generate more than £ 3 billion for the Exchequer , base on an Oxford economist ' s report that say that for every £ 1 spend by visitor , 37p be generate for the Exchequer . the only thing stop Ministers in the last Government look again at this issue be the Treasury ' s 2020 forecast , which unjustifiably — in my opinion — predict little or no impact on EU visitor number or spending level . that lead to the wrong conclusion that there would be cost to the Exchequer , even without all the other add benefit I have mention for hospitality , airport and luxury good manufacturer , which would help the economy . all the datum on actual spending supply by real business prove the opposite . my only ask of the Chancellor today be that she take the cost - free decision to review the 2020 impact forecast in the light of overwhelming real datum and this time , unlike the last , ask the OBR to scrutinise the Treasury ' s forecast impact of extend the scheme to EU visitor . I would welcome the opportunity to discuss this with Ministers , and I could bring expert with I to help the discussion . as the new Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , I remind Treasury Ministers of the report produce in the last Parliament call " Lessons learn : a planning and spending framework that enable long - term value for money " , about how the Treasury should focus on get the good value for every £ 1 of taxpayer ' money spend . the PAC will scrutinise the whole of the Government ' s expenditure and help they to get well value for money . we have another maiden speech , from Margaret Mullane . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to contribute to this debate with my maiden speech . it be the honour of my life to be stand here , in this historic place , at the heart of democracy , represent the community of Dagenham and Rainham , the place where I be bear and raise . I be well and truly make in Dagenham , and I be also the first woman to represent the seat since the boundary be redrawn in 2010 , when the old seat of Dagenham inherit the community of Rainham , South Hornchurch , Elm Park and now Beam Park . I be proud to join the long list of political woman from Dagenham , such as the Ford machinist whose battle pave the way for the Equal Pay Act in the ' 70 , and now our very own Hollie Ridley , Labour ' s new general secretary . I must take this opportunity to pay tribute to the inexhaustible work of my predecessor , Jon Cruddas , who always put the need of local people first and be , I know , a very well - respect Member of this House for his very thoughtful contribution . his presence will be miss by honourable colleague in Westminster and by the people of Dagenham and Rainham , not least for his community - lead approach to parliamentary politic . he always bring people with he , display integrity and compassion , and I have commit to continue in that vein . when people think of Dagenham and Rainham , they think of industry and the era of great british manufacturing — the Ford factory , Sanofi - Aventis and May & Baker , which create one of the first antibiotic , save many thousand of life during world war two , include that of Sir Winston Churchill when he suffer with pneumonia . People also think of council housing . the Becontree estate , one of the most ambitious social housing project in the world , build during the interwar period , mark its 100th anniversary in 2021 and be still a source of great pride . People also think of working - class solidarity : the community that be forge on the factory floor , in the club and at the dock ; and the indomitable spirit of the woman machinist whose famous fight pave the way for the Equal Pay Act 1970 and for a strong trade union voice in our area . Dagenham and Rainham have a rich past , and it be now my job to ensure that it have a bright future , full of opportunity and promise , build on the back of a new deal for work people . it have not always be politic for I ; I have work in insurance and in a call centre , and be a barmaid at the Dagenham Trades Hall . I know how precarious work can be in area such as Dagenham and Rainham , and it be the miner ' strike that draw I into politic . see secure job steal away , the injustice of Orgreave and the heart be rip out of working - class community by decision make in Westminster , I know then that I want to be a voice for working - class people . that be why I welcome the Government ' s commitment to make the Hillsborough law a reality , create a level playing field for people in place such as Dagenham and Rainham when tragedy sadly happen — like in 2015 , when four young man be murder by a serial killer . the Independent Office for Police Conduct find that mistake be make during the investigation , and nearly a decade later I continue to work with the family of Jack Taylor , seek the justice they deserve . it be not only justice that working - class community such as Dagenham and Rainham seek ; they want more police on our street to tackle the scourge of knife crime , particularly around transport hub such as Dagenham Heathway , Elm Park and Rainham . we want thrive town centre , an NHS fit for the future — one where you can get a GP appointment — job you can raise a family on , council housing , infrastructure , good public service we can all rely on and representative who serve with integrity . the devastating fire at the Spectrum building in my constituency in the early hour of Monday 26 August will not have escape the attention of the House . that have yet again bring to the fore the safety of resident in high - rise block across the country . thankfully , a combination of brave resident and the rapid response from the London Fire Brigade mean that there be no loss of life on this occasion . I want to take a moment to thank our emergency service for their amazing work and our community in Dagenham for their overwhelming response to this tragedy . local business and resident rally around to help family who have lose literally everything . that be who we be in Dagenham and Rainham , and I could not be prouder as their representative in this House . there be a long way to go before we have a level playing field , but in the meantime I will dedicate every moment I spend in this House to raise living standard and attract opportunity for my constituent . the work have already begin . in a matter of month London ' s big film studio will be complete , bring skilled work in the creative industry to a new generation of young people , make hope possible . that have only be make possible under the local stewardship of Labour , guide by Jon Cruddas , who broker the agreement when Sanofi - Aventis vacate the site , and Barking and Dagenham council , which secure the deal with Hackman Capital Partners to develop it . as with all thing , there be good news and bad news , and there be still a lot of battle that need to be fight . there be a patch of empty land at Marsh Way where c2c train should be take customer from their new neighbourhood on the Beam Park estate to Fenchurch Street in 20 minute , as promise by developer . I be determined to make sure that promise be make good . since discover that this crucial infrastructure have be derail , it be Labour representative who have be fight for a green light to get it deliver . I have always be a champion of council housing at traditional social rent , and I will continue to do that in Parliament . that be why I welcome the Government ' s commitment to build a new generation of social and affordable home . I also welcome the commitment to put in the essential service that community desperately need . I will always beat the drum of infrastructure . as we build — there be a lot of development plan for Dagenham and Rainham — we must ensure not only that the home be affordable , but that there be school , GPs and dentist , transport option , leisure facility , green space and the amenity need to thrive . there be many new challenge in Dagenham and Rainham , but there be also historical challenge that need resolution . the ongoing fire at the illegal landfill on Launders Lane in Rainham be not only a scandal but a public health risk , and I will be fight tooth and nail to extinguish they once and for all . the health of my constituent be paramount . that be why I be in regular contact with the chief executive of the Barking , Havering and Redbridge university hospital NHS trust , offer my support to get our local NHS back on its foot . our local NHS have ambitious plan to expand the emergency department at Queen ' s hospital , and I will be do everything in my power to make that a reality . at the election , I promise that I would help local community to shape the future of Dagenham and Rainham . from the Daggers box club to local faith group , business , work man ' s club , and amazing local charity such as Dagenham United and the Ship in Rainham , everyone play a part in build a future for Dagenham and Rainham . that include Barking and Dagenham and Havering council , which be why I will be a constant voice ask for a revise funding formula for local authority , so that they have the resource they need to transform life . I will finish as I start . it be the honour of my life to stand here represent my constituency and to be give the opportunity to serve . I be fiercely proud of Dagenham and Rainham and , build on the legacy of those who stand here before I , I will always be on hand to fight for the community who call my constituency home . thank you . I do not doubt that the hon . Lady will be a strong advocate for her constituency . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) , who make an excellent speech . she speak with knowledge and passion about her constituency and about the challenge that face the resident of Dagenham and Rainham . Hers be a constituency I know well , since I drive back to my own on the A13 every week . sometimes , when it be closed , as happen last week , I find myself explore even more of Dagenham and Rainham . I also congratulate the hon . member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) , who also make a very good contribution . we look forward to hear from both of they in the future . I want to start by put on record the thank that I think be due to my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , the shadow Chancellor , and my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , the former Prime Minister . one of the extraordinary thing I have find in the Budget speech that we be debate be the complete failure to mention the two extraordinary challenge that the Government have to face : covid and the economic consequence of Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . those two event combine potentially threaten the survival of every business in this country and could have lead to a catastrophic increase in the cost of live for ordinary people . it be only through the intervention of the then Government in provide support that we manage to keep the economy go and that those business and the job associate with they survive . I find the Chancellor ' s failure even to mention that challenge when talk about the economic legacy extraordinary . it have leave we with a legacy , but despite the level of borrowing that be necessary , the Government be bring it down and have restore the economy . I think that when the history book be write , a lot of credit will be give to my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor and the former Prime Minister . do the right hon . member accept that the Conservative Government ' s decision to reduce gas storage and to fail to invest in the NHS over long period make deal with those crisis considerably bad ? order . before the right hon . member respond , intervention be a healthy part of debate , but the hon . Lady should draw the attention of the Member by speak loudly in ask for an intervention . every country in the world face enormous challenge . the record of the Conservative Government in tackle those challenge bear comparison with any other country . that can not be diminish . I will say a little bit more about the NHS in particular as I move forward with my remark . I see that Alastair Campbell tweet in defence of this particular Budget . he say : " it be a very Labour Budget " . I would certainly agree with that . it put up spending massively , borrow massively and tax massively — to that extent , it be a very Labour Budget . in the first 30 minute of the Chancellor ' s speech yesterday she do not actually make any announcement ; she simply try to justify some of the measure she be go to introduce by talk about the fictitious black hole . the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash , have already adequately expose why that be a fiction , and the Office for Budget Responsibility be unable to find any evidence for the figure that she quote . let we be clear : tax and spend be a matter of choice . it be the choice of this government to break all the promise that they make at the last election . it be their choice to break their manifesto commitment not to increase national insurance contribution . they say that they would not increase tax on work people , but in many area the measure that they have introduce will have a significant impact on work people . the denial that there be a tax bombshell to come be extraordinary , give that they subsequently announce a £ 40 billion one , which will result in the tax burden in this country rise steadily to what will be the high ever on record . yet this be a Government who take office say that their priority would be to fuel growth . I can say to the Minister that he can not fuel growth by punish the business that will be responsible for create the job and wealth of the future . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s forecast follow the Budget show that growth be forecast to fall steadily . I want to speak about one or two of the tax choice that have be make — they , too , be a matter of choice . it be up to the Chancellor to decide how to raise the extra revenue . even before the Budget , we already hear of one extremely damaging , painful decision — the withdrawal of the winter fuel allowance — to save money by take it away from pensioner across the country . I have receive many email express great disappointment that the Chancellor press ahead with that measure and do nothing yesterday to reduce its impact . it be primarily business that will pay the price in this Budget . the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution be estimate to cost they £ 25 billion , which represent £ 615 more for every single employee of a business over the threshold . what be the result ? if the cost of employ people increase , that can have only two consequence : low wage and few job . each of those will hit work people . on top of that , business will face an increase in the national minimum wage . that will hit the business that be already find it hard to survive . it will impact on the care sector and the hospitality sector — already under enormous pressure . the decision to increase the national minimum wage for young adult by 16 % will make it even hard for those people to find job . just 10 day ago the Government herald the investment summit , which be suppose to persuade international investor that this be a country they should want to invest in . yet a week later , we have high capital gain tax and high stamp duty , and a war declare on non - dom . instead of investment come into this country , already we be see the flight of people live here — the entrepreneur on whom our future success depend be leave in drove . the right hon . Member mention people flee the country . could he point to at least three example of anyone at the investment summit now say that they will withdraw that money ? the investment summit announce a lot of investment for which the Conservative Government be actually responsible . let we wait and see . the Budget be yesterday . business will have to look very carefully at their plan , but I do not expect they to do so in a mere few hour . I be happy to have this debate with the hon . Gentleman again in a few week ' time once we have see the impact of the measure that have be announce . there be two specific measure that I want to touch on because they have a particular impact on my constituent . one of they , which have be mention a number of time in this debate , be the removal of agricultural property relief . the Country Land and Business Association estimate that that will affect 70 , 000 business . family farm in particular will feel the impact bad . it be hardly surprising that the president of the National Farmers ' Union have say : " this Budget not only threaten family farm but will also make produce food more expensive … the shameless breaking of those promise on Agricultural Property Relief will snatch away much of the next generation ' s ability to carry on produce british food , plan for the future and shepherd the environment . " this be a measure that the Labour party say it would not introduce , but it have break that promise and be now propose to introduce it , with enormous damage not just to farmer but to food security and our environment . the second measure that I would like to touch on — [ interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , I see you have acquire Speaker ' s cough . I will heed your warning , but I want to mention vat on private school . in my constituency I have three small independent school : heathcote school in Danbury , Elm Green in Little Baddow and Maldon Court school in Maldon . the parent who send their child there be not rich ; they make huge sacrifice . in Essex we be very fortunate to have really good grammar school . those parent make that sacrifice to help their child hopefully get into the grammar , but they will not be able to continue if there be 20 % increase in fee as a result of the imposition of vat . they will withdraw their child and those school will be threaten with closure . the consequence be that the child will need to be place in state school , which be already under huge pressure . my constituency be grow rapidly , and there be enormous pressure on school . this will simply make it bad . this policy be simply vindictive and will do enormous damage . very quickly , I note that the Minister for Secondary Care , the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) have come back into the Chamber , and she would be disappoint if I do not say that I welcome the hospital building programme in the Budget and the announcement of new money . however , once again I reiterate that a hospital in my constituency be threaten with closure . we have be promise a new one for 30 year or more , under both my Government and the Government before that . she be good enough to see my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and I the other day , so that we could make the case . if she do hold this money , I hope that she might be able to direct some of it to my constituency . this Budget be one of the bad I have hear in all my time in this place . it will do enormous damage . I be grateful for this opportunity to put that on the record . I call Jon Trickett . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will try to be reasonably quick . I pay tribute to the maiden speech we have hear today , which be exceptional . in particular , I associate myself with the view of my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) when she say that she stand for work class life and community , and will do everything she can for they . that be how I have see my 28 year in this place , too . I think I be probably the only person on the Labour Benches today who be here in 1997 , so I want to say something to the Government and to all our Back Benchers . I be there when Labour come into office — I be elect in 1996 , so I be here in ' 97 — and the same lack of humility show then by the Conservative party , which have be thrash by the electorate , be be show today . there be the same short - term memory of the failure their Government have commit under John Major and the other Prime Minister before that , and the same lack of remorse . there be a lack of remorse for what we have now : food bank Britain , with million of people in poverty . not a word from those on the Conservative Benches . there be million of people on NHS waiting list . no remorse from the party opposite for that . there be no remorse for the fact that our economy have not be properly invest in throughout their whole period in office . this country be the low investor in the whole of the G7 . there be no remorse for all the other failure either , and no sense of humility when the public tell they that they have make a series of mistake . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I be go to try to be quick . I be not go to take any intervention . all those matter , and other too , require we to make a change in the direction of our economy . that be what this Budget have begin to do ; we be turn the page . one final reflection on ' 97 . when Labour introduce the minimum wage , one of the great reform of the century , the Tories keep we in the Lobby night after night after night . we be proud to do it . the argument they make then have a parallel with the argument they be make about our Budget today — that there will be job loss , an impact on profitability , small firm will be in trouble and so on . let I say this . eventually , they accept the minimum wage because it be the right thing to do . there be no job loss and there be no impact on profitability . so , I say to those on the Government Front Bench : continue in the direction you be travel , but move fast and be even more radical . I recommend that they have a look at Spain , where a socialist Government be in place . they have — I think I be right in say — the high rate of growth in the G7 . they introduce a 0 . 5 % wealth tax on estate worth more than € 3 million a year and they be get high growth . that show that a determined government restructure the economy , as we need to do , can deliver change and not damage a country ' s economic success . I represent 23 village , all former mining community that be treat brutally by the Tory party 40 year ago . it be a distant memory for many , but I remember every single moment of the strike . they destroy the mining industry and have do nothing to replace it in the last 40 year , so we have widespread poverty , as there be in all post - industrial community throughout our country . they perpetrate a hoax on those community by say that they would level up . the levelling - up fund be not direct to where poverty be . in any event , it be a competition in deprivation between one area and another . my community get nothing , yet we be struggle desperately to achieve growth . level up be a great slogan , but it be use as a trick to persuade people to vote Conservative in 2019 . what happen ? People have learn their lesson . let I come on to one point that I be worried about and then on to a general point . on transport , the difference in the distribution of funding for transport be extraordinary . the previous government — that lot — spend £ 418 per head on transport in Yorkshire . in London , it be £ 1 , 200 . that be three time as much per head per year spend on transport in London than in Yorkshire , and that leave we with problem . I represent 23 village — rural community in many way , deprived community , post - mining community . to get from one community to another , bear in mind over 20 , 000 people in our area do not have a car and the train do not work very well — the train service have leave we without adequate public transport by train — the only option be the bus . bus often do not start until 8 o ' clock , but people begin work at 7 , or leave home at 7 . I have meet woman walk from one village to another in the dark on unlit street because the bus service have not yet start . that be a problem the Conservatives create . I regret this Government ' s decision to raise bus fare from £ 2 to £ 3 . I do not suppose there be anybody in this whole Parliament who do not have access to a car , but there be many people across the country who do not have a car because wage be so low . People be walk in the dark at 7 o ' clock in the morning to get to work from one village to another . and for those of we who do have a bus service , it be go up by 50 % . it will be roughly £ 6 a day to get to and from work . that be £ 30 a week and £ 1 , 500 a year in bus fare to get to work and back . clearly , that give we a problem . in my constituency , there be village that be only seven mile apart , yet the bus take one hour and 19 minute to get from the one you live in to the one where you work . that be completely unsatisfactory . if we be go to raise bus fare — that be the decision that have be make , which I regret — we need to reform the way bus operate so that they be accessible to community . the Government have make some announcement in relation to that already , which be welcome . my final point be on the lack of investment the Conservative party preside over for year . I hear the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) say today , " okay , there might have be a black hole in the public finance , but we be go to cover it with cut . " that be effectively what he say . the cut be always take place to investment and they be go to cut more investment . if we measure my constituency by GDP per head — a controversial measure , but the one we be familiar with — that lack of investment mean the average worker produce £ 29 , 000 per year of GDP . wage be peg to productivity , as we all know , so we have low wage — less than £ 30 , 000 a year . but listen to this . in Camden — we know it be a different economy in Camden — GDP per head be £ 174 , 000 . the regional difference between output , capacity and productivity be all the result of that failure to invest . the Budget set out to invest , and to invest big and go for growth , but I will be press , for all the hold - back , post - industrial community up and down our country — not only the coalfield but in the midland and elsewhere — for the investment we achieve and the growth we deliver to be more equitable than it have be under the Conservatives . with those few thought , and an encouragement to be more radical and even more bold for the future — let we bear in mind ' 97 — I wish the Budget well . one thing that we always feel after a Budget be a sense of relief , because we at least know that we be go to get some answer . it feel that when we be talk , campaign and raise issue , we be always tell to wait for the Budget . I be additionally relieve yesterday because my son manage to pass his driving test theory . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] thank you . I do not think the Government need any help in talk about the economic legacy leave by the previous Government , but we do have to acknowledge that the funding structure put in place by the previous Government have create a legacy , as well as expectation . I want to talk about those that most directly impact North East Fife , start with infrastructure funding . I be pleased to hear the city deal announcement in relation to Argyll and Bute , give that I have an Argyllshire father , but I want to highlight the opportunity within exist city deal to add value and to make up some of the increase cost we have see in recent year . the town of Newburgh in North East Fife have be cut off from the railway for almost 70 year . it have a line run through it that transport 38 train a day and for the last 13 year there have be a campaign to rebuild a train station and reconnect it to the line . that make sense from a number of perspective : a train station take car off the road ; it allow investment into the town ; it can bring tourist to place such as the Lindores Abbey distillery ; and it shorten journey time for those travel beyond for NHS or other treatment . however , the only mention of railway infrastructure be in relation to the city region sustainable transport settlement , which be for England only . I acknowledge that transport be devolve , but there be way in which the UK Government could look to work with the Scottish Government in order to help those community where additional funding could make a difference . the other element of transport infrastructure be access for all , which be a UK scheme although the Scottish Government play a part in determine which station receive support . I want to make an additional call for funding for Leuchars station , which serve St Andrews — although it be one of the well - know part of my constituency , it do not have a station . it sometimes feel that we have fall into the crack between Westminster and Holyrood on that . on disability and on Access for all , we need to do more at all level to ensure that we deliver the funding . return to the impact of the different fund and scheme that be put in place post follow our departure from the EU , and the need to replace EU structural funding , I want to touch on the community ownership fund and the share prosperity fund . I and other Fife mp — I see two of they in their place — recently meet Fife council to talk about the future of the share prosperity fund , which be due to end in March 2025 . I be pleased by the commitment to continue it for another year , although we need to move away from year - to - year funding . I be sure we all meet third - sector organisation and other who talk about the uncertainty that short - term funding bring to the service that they provide . we also have to acknowledge that the Budget — the relevant passage be very short — will mean that Fife council , for example , will see a cut of about a third in share prosperity funding , which have deliver programme such as Kingdom Works , an employability service that have support over 8 , 000 people . the Government say in the Budget that they want to reform funding , and I urge they to do so quickly so that we get certainty . the Liberal Democrats have talk a lot about health and social care . other have speak about the fact that we need to focus on social care , because without fix it , we will not fix the NHS . again , the NHS be devolve in Scotland . I welcome the significant increase in funding for Scotland ; it be now over to the SNP - lead Scottish Government to deliver on that . I be pleased , too , that we will see support for public sector organisation in relation to the national insurance increase . however , there be no doubt that the NHS in Scotland be in a dire state . in Fife , there be no NHS dentist currently take patient , and in my constituency we be see further cut and closure in dental service . the other thing that I want to say about what I think the Scottish Government should be do relate to the business rate change that the UK Government have bring forward . let I quote one of my constituent , who be report in today ' s Courier newspaper say about rate relief : " we don ' t have the cliff edge in Scotland . we ' ve be pay full rate ever since last summer . " I accept that that potentially be not cover by the block grant , but give that the whole UK be a tourism destination , the Scottish Government need to look at how they well support hospitality and tourism , because there be a real difference between what be happen in other part of the UK and what be happen in Scotland . I should declare an interest at this point : I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Scotch whisky and work for Diageo for four year before my election . at the start of the debate , the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster talk about choice . for I , the other aspect of choice be manage expectation . that be where the real issue that I have with the Budget come to the fore . Mark Kent , the chief executive of the Scotch Whisky Association , say in the Scotsman today that the decision to increase rate on Scotch whisky " not only fly in the face of the commitment to back the industry as a core element of the government ' s ' Brand Scotland ' concept , it also serve no economic purpose . " the Conservatives ' 10 . 1 % increase in alcohol duty be deeply damaging to the whisky industry . in the 12 month since it come into force , revenue from the tax have actually fall by £ 298 million , so it be clearly not deliver increase revenue to the Treasury . what we see from the Government yesterday will continue to hurt the industry , which be so important for Scotland . the Chancellor offer support to brewery through the cut in duty on draught product , but that will do nothing to support responsible drinking . tax base on strength of alcohol be not the right way to go about it ; it be about alcohol be alcohol and how it be consume . I might not represent the most whisky distillery in Scotland by number , but I probably do by volume , with the Diageo distillery and bottle plant in Leven . return to the point about promise and expectation , we come to farming and the issue of the inheritance tax change . the National Farmers Union Scotland say on its blog today that it be pleased to see the roll - over of the agricultural funding , although that have go into the Scottish Government ' s block grant , so , again , it be over to the Scottish Government to ensure that they deliver for farmer . we need farmer for our food production and security , for our climate and nature recovery , which be more vital than ever , and for rural growth and support . the Budget be subtitle " fix the foundation " but I be sadden that it contain no mention of the most important foundation of everything in Britain : our natural world . do she agree that more resource need to be dedicate to the restoration of nature and to support our farmer , both of which be crucial to food security ? I absolutely agree . whenever I have that discussion with farmer , they want to support climate and nature — they want to do the right thing — but they need support to do so . as I say , the overall funding envelope for farmer be for the Scottish Government to deliver , and I be confident that my Scottish Liberal Democrat colleague in Holyrood will be make the case for they to do so . in his intervention on the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) talk about how the number of farm affect will be small , but the issue be that the Government promise last year not to do anything in relation to agricultural property relief , yet that be what be happen . I be already be contact by local farmer who fear that this will be the death of their and other family ' farm . it be important that we remember that it be not just about those farmer ; it be also about the infrastructure and the wide community that they support , such as vet and other facility . we should not forget tenant farmer , either , because they be some of our most vulnerable . I know that because I work with some of they prior to the election in relation to the roll - out of universal credit . that system be not fit for purpose for farmer . the Work and Pensions Secretary be no long in her place , but I will be come back to she on that issue . we need to ensure that we provide that support . until very recently , I wear multiple hat , because I have far few colleague . now that I have more of they , I have give up my Department for Work and Pensions hat , but I welcome the change to carer ' s allowance . I would like some clarity about the carer support payment in Scotland , which be a devolved benefit that be currently be roll out . I have not see it in the note that I have look at so far , but perhaps it will become clear in the come day whether that be include in the block grant that be come to Scotland , or whether there will be additional consequential . to conclude , there be thing in this budget that I absolutely welcome , but , as always , there be unintended consequence , on which I hope the Government will listen to we . I call Gregor Poynton to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate . first , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) , and for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) , who have proudly show the good of their constituency in their maiden speech today . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Hannah Bardell . Hannah have diligently support our constituent over the past nine year , whether by address the broxburn flood , assist homeowner affect by RAAC , advocate for those affect by the infected blood scandal , or championing LGBTQ + right . on election night , she be incredibly gracious — a spirit that have continue , as Hannah and her team have go above and beyond in pass on case and help my team to get settle . she say to I on the night , " it ' s all about the constituent , " and she have be true to her word . Hannah say in her speech on polling night that she intend to be back in some form . of that I have no doubt . I just hope it be not too soon . my constituency be call Livingston , which be understandable , as that be the big town in the constituency and the county , but the constituency be so much more than that ; it include town and village such as Breich , Dechmont , Ecclesmachan , Uphall , Longridge , broxburn , Bents , Stoneyburn , Addiewell , Kirknewton , Wilkieston , East Calder , Mid Calder , West Calder and Fauldhouse , each rich with its own history and distinct community spirit . the area ' s economy and population be initially boost by mining , of coal in the west , and oil shale in the east . the landscape still bear witness to this history , with the bing that remain . that be why it be important to I that the Chancellor announce in yesterday ' s Budget that we be deliver on our manifesto commitment to return the investment reserve to miner . we be hand back £ 1 . 2 billion to former miner and their family . in fact , 144 former miner in the Livingston constituency will receive an average increase of £ 29 per week in their pension . for those who would like a further insight into scottish oil and the shale oil industry , there be the Almond Valley visitor centre , which bring to life the first truly commercial oil work in the world , and celebrate the west lothian chemist James " Paraffin " Young ' s work and discovery . however , the big growth in the area be in the 1960 , with the creation of the new town of Livingston . many from Glasgow and the west of Scotland venture east because of the promise of improved housing and job opportunity . that entrepreneurial spirit be still alive in Livingston , which be the home of high - end manufacturer like Wyman - Gordon , biotech company like Valneva , Glenmorangie ' s bottle plant , Paterson ' s shortbread factory , Mitsubishi Electric , the Centre and the designer outlet village , Sky , and numerous small and medium - sized enterprise , which be the lifeblood of our local economy . now that I have highlight Paterson ' s shortbread and Glenmorangie , I be expect a visit from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland — all in the name of promote Brand Scotland , of course . as I prepare to give this speech , I seek inspiration from the maiden speech of two previous mps for Livingston : Robin Cook and Tam Dalyell , who know a thing or two about speak in this place . even in their maiden speech , they set themselves apart with their wit , intellect and fire for social justice . Tam Dalyell use his experience as a schoolteacher to outline practical reform that could be make to the education system , and Robin Cook , a former chair of housing on Edinburgh City council , make a plea for more and well housing . I take from they that you should talk about what you know , and if I can maintain that for my whole parliamentary career , I think I will be do rather well . Tam Dalyell and Robin Cook be two giant of Scottish Labour politic , who , in their different way , make a mark in this place . we new Scottish Labour mps must now make ours . there be a scottish Labour thread of history in this place , from Hardie , Maxton , Lee and Dewar to Cook , Brown and Darling . live up to that be an impossible task , but try we must , because in that trying and effort be the opportunity to make a change . the idea of be a Scottish MP in the Parliament of the United Kingdom be important to I . I be scottish , and I be british . I do not see these identity as contradictory , but they be different . give that all four nation be part of the United Kingdom , and have be , in some case , for hundred of year , it would seem logical that the UK identity would subsume all , but that be not so . the idea of Scotland be powerful . it have stand the test of time , and it mean different thing to different people in the Borders , the highland , the island community , the east , the west , the central belt , urban area and rural area , but there be a common fabric of what it mean to be scottish , and it bind we together , whether we be bear into be scottish or choose to make our home in Scotland . this be part of who we be , and have Scotland as one of the four nation make our country great than the sum of its part . the theme of today ' s debate be " fix the foundation " , because over the last 14 year our country have not be on secure foundation . the chaos of the last 14 year across the UK — and particularly the last 10 year in Scotland , where there have be a focus on the constitution , not the day job — have make our country feel less secure and life feel too precarious for far too many . family be one mistake , a piece of bad luck or a decision that be no fault of their own away from disaster . that be no way to live . that be why this Budget — which ensure a pay rise for over 200 , 000 of the lowest - pay scot , let more family keep more of their hard - earn cash — be important for family right across the Livingston constituency . I want to come to this place to make sure that everyone , no matter their background , can thrive . that be what drive I and my politic . have grow up in a working - class family in a working - class town in central Scotland in the ' 80 and ' 90 , I have see what happen when people have opportunity and security , and what happen when they do not . my father work in a plastic plant in Grangemouth for over 35 year , provide our family with stability and dignity through unionised work . without it , I would not be here today . there be hope for the future . yesterday ' s Budget mark the end of the era of austerity , and raise much - need cash for our public service . this Labour Budget deliver the large budget settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution . it mean there be an additional £ 1 . 5 billion for the Scottish Government to spend in this financial year , and an additional £ 3 . 4 billion next year . this be a significant increase in investment to ensure that we have the funding available for Scotland ' s NHS , school and public service . it be now for the SNP , which have lose its way in recent year , to get a grip and spend the money wisely . I recently visit the Larder , a social enterprise provide solution to poverty through learn opportunity and access to high - quality , affordable food . it support young people for whom traditional academic setting have often not work , help they to build skill and confidence . the Larder have have huge success in turn life around , so it can be do . we have the people and drive to build strong community . we have a Government who be on the side of work people , and we should not rest until everyone in this country have the opportunity that they need to build a more secure life for themselves and their family . that be what I resolve to spend my time in this place do , on behalf of people in the Livingston constituency . I call my constituency neighbour , Mims Davies . I congratulate all hon . member who have make their maiden speech . may I wish the hon . member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) well in his time in this place ? I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) that the failure of the Budget , and its long preamble , mention covid and the war on our continent , be very stark . however , I would like to start on a positive note . I be the 380th woman elect to Parliament , and it be truly a historic moment to see the first female Chancellor at the Dispatch Box . she say that it would give hope to other woman who be watch , and I absolutely agree . I just hope that our business , and sector such as hospitality , feel that hope . it be very pleasing to hear the announcement of the compensation scheme for infected blood victim — my constituent Robert , in East Grinstead , have be campaign very hard on that — and for victim of the Post Office scandal , which will be welcome by many of my constituent . it be also please that fuel duty have be freeze , and I thank all my hon . friend and campaigner who make sure that there be support in this area of the family finance . I be pleased about that , and , indeed about the cladding intervention . there be a welcome boost for funding for special educational need and disability , and something for the dread pothole , although we have yet to find out how far that funding will stretch . however , 10 independent school be in peril in my constituency , and their food provider , staff and many other be very worried about where they will go if they be displace . there be no funding in this Budget to deal with such displacement . I would have welcome more support for the Sussex wine sector ; I be sure that you would agree with I on that , Madam Deputy Speaker . order . that point be not about the consumption of wine ; I have many vineyard in my constituency , as the hon . member do . it be very important to support people work in the wine sector . Viticulture be alive and well in Sussex , Essex and across the country . if the train driver ' need have truly be satisfied , the service from East Grinstead to the capital simply must improve . that be my plea to the southern rail service . despite the leak and the pre - Budget announcement , it come as something of a shock to hear the full announcement in the Budget yesterday . there can be no mistake : the cost to the country be very dear . accord to the OBR , the direct and indirect cost amount to £ 52 billion . the new Labour Government can not escape the fact that , in their first Budget in 14 year — as they keep remind we — they be set to raise taxis by a staggering £ 40 billion . taxis will be at their high level since 1993 , and that build on the winter fuel payment debacle . despite Labour Members ' glee and their waving of Order Papers , when they go back to their constituency or open their email , they will see a very different story . their constituent , like mine , will face the large tax burden in our history , and work people will pay the price , as the Chancellor have now agree . let I turn to young voter and those keen to get on the housing ladder . stamp duty be back for first - time buyer . one of my conservative councillor in Copthorne and Worth highlight this morning that the purchase of two rental property have fall through because the margin be already very tight . yesterday ' s decision mean that two couple will now not be homeowner . in Handcross and Pease Pottage , one of my councillor , Mr Prescott , mention the Budget of broken promise . his organisation will face a cost of £ 70 , 000 , it will lose two people , and the delivery of programme will be stop . that be the reality of these decision . small business — often those that be woman - lead , such as salon — will see the impact of the national insurance rise . I will be interested to see the effect across all sector , particularly as the measure be a clear breach of the labour manifesto . despite labour ' s retrospective revisionism , the effect will be feel right across the land . on every radio station that I listen to on my way in this morning , the dismay across sector , affect real people ' s life , be everywhere . the national insurance rise affect charity and organisation , such as our hospice and air ambulance . as the shadow Chancellor say in the medium this morning and again here today , pick the pocket of business , charity and organisation be not cost - free . the Institute for Fiscal Studies confirm that the rise will hit the low - pay worker through low pay , and the OBR have say that it will hit employment . so much for not raise taxis on work people . two manifesto commitment have be break . my constituent tell I on the doorstep that their no . 1 priority be to improve the NHS . if the conservative party be still in government , it would be oversee steep cut across the NHS and our public service . would the hon . Lady be happy to be part of such a programme ? nobody here want any negative for their constituency from the Budget , least of all for health service . however , I have family in Wales who have be live under a Labour Government , and they know the reality of what be come down the line . let I build on the question I have have from constituent this morning . family business be directly affect . a local funeral director group with national reach say that it believe that the Treasury have its figure wrong on the impact of the change to agricultural property relief and business property relief . the cap and the 20 % rate must surely be a simple mistake , the group write . to meet the inheritance tax bill and pay their liability , firm will have to extract capital , incur a 38 % dividend tax rate , which be above the propose 20 % rate of reduce IHT . give that capital gain tax be at 24 % , it make no sense for family business to pass on their share to family . they will simply have to sell they or their business . I have be implore to ask those on the Treasury Bench to ensure that the Government consult and listen to family business , at the very least . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster talk about Conservative member oppose the Budget . we be oppose it . it be anti - choice , anti - growth , anti - business — particularly anti - family business — and anti - aspirational . it be focus on more borrowing . disgracefully , as have be say , it pit the public sector against the private sector . happy Hallowe ' en , because everybody here know that this be the ghost of a Labour Government of the past . they be back and haunt every single constituency . I represent a rural constituency , and it be clear that local farmer will be hit by the change to inheritance tax — we just need to read the message from the NFU today . I be afraid that the subterfuge and the hoodwinking of the farming community will be feel not just by Opposition Members , but across everybody ' s community . I recently read out in Westminster Hall the word of a local farmer , whose concern be purely about business confidence at that point . the same farmer write to I again this week — I remind the House that farmer be work people , and they work 365 day and 52 week a year — to say : " my family ' s farm and estate be currently economically viable but there be no chance that they would ever produce sufficient cash flow to make it possible for we to cover any significant amount of inheritance tax . if we be strike by excessive taxation we will no long be able to produce 7 , 000 , 000 litre of milk per annum or timber for the nation . the heritage of 200 year could be go . " farmer across my constituency be stunned . this be a hammer blow for family business , as the shadow Chancellor say , and we will oppose the Budget . it do not fix the foundation ; it be a set of dangerous ground work . I call Maya Ellis to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . my journey here come via almost 10 year in local government , as an officer work on economic development and regeneration . I grow up among passionate socialist , but I also see the investment that small business all around I put into their local area , so I be delighted to be make my maiden speech , as the first Labour MP for Ribble Valley , in this debate on a Budget that truly harness the good of both social policy and great british enterprise . we need both , and we need they to work together . for a young woman , full of dream and want to change the world , sometimes our day - to - day can feel a pretty restrictive place to be . anyone who have feel hold back in their ambition will know that it can take just one or two people to believe in you , to make all the difference to whether you carry on or give up . I can not possibly name all the people who help I get here , but you know who you be , and it make all the difference that you never question for a second that I could do this . it be so easy to quickly take for grant that we be speak in a debate on a Budget present by the first ever woman Chancellor of the Exchequer . she will know as well as I do that as fairytale as our journey may seem at their high point right now , the prejudice and obstacle that we face , and that woman face every day , be still far too high . I have say it to many woman , and I will say it to any listening now : you be as smart and as capable as you think you be ; do not let anyone convince you otherwise . we need your fire . I have be in Westminster a few month now , and one thing I hear people say frequently about my predecessor , the right hon . Nigel Evans , be how much he love and care for this place that we stand in today . Mr Evans work incredibly hard and diligently as Deputy Speaker and on the restoration and renewal programme board . we be very lucky to have this well - manage centre of debate and challenge in the UK , and I be grateful to Mr Evans , and to all those who work here , for uphold our exceptional standard of democracy . I promise Mr Evans on the night of the election that I would take care of the Ribble Valley constituency that I know we both love . I can already safely say that I will likewise show this incredible institution of Westminster and our strong democracy the respect and protection that I know we both value so highly . I be one of those exceptionally lucky mp who have live in their constituency most of their life . it mean that I know it like the back of my hand . for well or bad , it also mean that I encounter situation like I do the other day , when one of my old Brownie leader call I over while do the school run to raise an issue about local social housing — I be on it , Jan , I promise . my constituency of Ribble Valley be a patchwork of our country ' s history and its future . we remember the battle of Bamber Bridge , when local stand up against white gi to welcome black US soldier into their pub — a brilliant example of the inclusion and multi - culturalism that make this country great . in Samlesbury , we have produce plane to protect the country since world war two , and I be delighted that progress on establish the National Cyber Force in my constituency be well under way . it will lead our country ' s research , develop our future security and build our skill in cyber . People be often surprise by the size of the Ribble Valley constituency . its boundary have change over the year , but it currently reach from the Lancashire - Yorkshire border , with picture - perfect village such as Tosside , Rimington , Waddington , West Bradford and Chipping , through to the lively suburb of Preston , take in Fulwood , Bamber Bridge and Walton - le - Dale , and almost reach the ribble estuary at the Irish sea . I see the breadth of my constituency as its depth . we have wonderful place to live , though much could be do to keep they safe and kinder . we have great transport link , with the M6 run through , and it be only two hour to London on the train from Preston . we also have utterly stunning countryside , include a large part of the trough of Bowland , where the late Queen say that she would have love to retire . strong community be so important to I , and both the rural and urban area of my constituency be make up of village that come together to create celebration such as the Lostock Hall carnival and the Broughton scarecrow festival just last week . right in the heart of my constituency be my home village of Ribchester , where my family have live since 1961 and where I be now raise my family . I must pay a quick tribute to the people of that village . from the amateur dramatic society and the church to the Brownie unit and the parish council , the village show I the good of what it mean to be british . I look forward to this Government ease the burden on family , so that they can spend more time contribute to the amazing community that we all need to thrive . the only person I know who love Ribble Valley more than I do be my dad . he travel the world , live in big city and in commune , dream of new way to live our life , but I recently find a letter that he write to himself at age 21 , in which he speak of the strange pull back to our beautiful little corner of the world , where he choose to raise his family and , without know it , raise the Labour MP he dream of it have . it be my deep sadness that my dad do not live to see I stand here , but I know that he relish every heated debate we have at the dinner table and , along with my mum — one of the most intelligent woman I know — I think my dad have an eye to what he be prepare I for . he be the big feminist I have ever know , and , in I , I think he raise the second big . a lot of my career have involve work on innovation policy , which have collide over time with my passion for social justice . I think we all need a vision to look towards , and I want we to be ambitious that our rapid advance in technology and automation should translate into great reward for worker . I would like to think that it be not too utopian to hope that we will move to a standard four - day working week in my lifetime . so much of what our society need do not necessarily cost money , but it do cost time — time to give our child focus play ; time to truly rest our body so that they do not crumble far too early ; and time to live slowly and to grow our own food , to reduce the huge demand on this Earth . technology can give we time , if that be where we choose to channel the benefit . before I finish , I will touch on my utmost priority as a Member of Parliament : work family . we need to make life much more tenable , more affordable and , dare I say , more joyful for parent , who want to contribute to our country while also raise good human . it be also critical to I that we make sure the child have the life , support and love they deserve . we have a vision for an innovative and high - growth economy , but we do not get innovation without diversity of thought . this Parliament be the most diverse in history , and I , as one of those new diverse member , be able to be here with my mental health just about intact only because my husband take three month of paternity leave with both our child . this mean that , when an election be call two day after I be select as the labour candidate , I do not have to spend a single second handing childcare over to he ; he already know how to change a nappy , what to pack in a bag and the book my child want to read at bedtime . I fully believe I would not be stand here now if he have not take paternity leave . that opportunity should not be rare . forgive I for speak in a hetero - normative context , but that be my personal experience . we know that few dad take up paternity or parental leave , which mean that many woman can not dream of put themselves forward for political office , as I do . know that my husband can confidently care for my child give I time to think , to organise and to dream . too many woman be still unable to do this because their mental load fill every bit of additional brain space they have . we need the idea and dream of mother and parent to propel our business , our public service and our society . I be delighted to join the campaign organisation Pregnant then Screwed and the Dad Shift early this month to try to shift the dial on parent equality . I hope to see some truly ambitious step change as our Government review paternity leave over this coming year , not only to create a new vision of fatherhood in this country , but to unlock the dream and plan of mother , which we have be so desperately lacking but which be so desperately important . I send a huge thank you to my incredible husband for hold the fort at home , and for be the foundation of my standing here today . finally , I want to acknowledge that it take a lot of bravery to be a girl or a young woman today ; it always have . it be relentless , scary and exhausting , especially for those with caring responsibility or face additional prejudice . there be a million reason to give up , and there be a million time I almost do , but please do not give up . I can promise you this : brave girl grow up , and one day you might stand here and be the one in charge . that be very inspirational . I congratulate the hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) on her spirited maiden speech . her speech , along with the other maiden speech , underline how new member come here with good will in their heart , full of good intention and full of ideal . it be hearten to see that in new colleague on both side of the House . I do not think the new Labour Government have any lack of good intention , but this Budget be happen in something of a political bubble . much of the Chancellor ' s discourse seem to reflect a continuation of the general election campaign , which we now know could have be fight more honestly , openly and transparently by the Labour party . that say , I be sure the Chancellor believe she have produce the good Budget for this country . the big cheer from the Labour Benches yesterday seem to be for the 1p cut in draught beer duty , but I have since speak to people in the hospitality industry , and they have describe this as a shatter Budget . the money that publican and restaurateur will now have to pay their staff , and pay for their staff , massively dwarf any benefit they could possibly pass on to their customer from the 1p beer duty cut . in fact , most of the increase beer price that we will see as a result of this Budget be a direct consequence of the tax increase inflict on business . I be afraid that those cheer demonstrate a complete lack of reality about the world we live in . the character of this Budget reflect a reversion to the fail Labour policy of the 1960 and 1970 . it be naive to believe that tax wealth creator , wealth creation and capital formation will not drive entrepreneur and business leader out of our country , which be happen . it be also deceive , because the Budget reflect that Labour ' s plan be not fully cost , and it be destructive of wealth , wealth creator and pension . the Budget massively reduce people ' s incentive to save into their pension pot , as they will now be tax on what be leave over at the end of their life to pass on to their child . of course , there be also a streak of vindictiveness towards wealth creator . I hear a Labour Member shout " good ! " when the shadow Chancellor say that we be climb the league table of country with high tax rate across the economy , move beyond Germany . the attitude that taxation be somehow an inherent good have limit , and we be go beyond those limit . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I certainly will if it be the hon . Gentleman that say that — indicate assent . it be . I thank he for own up . what be wrong with the german economy ? the german economy have consistently perform well over the past 30 year , in excess of our economy , and have a strong industrial strategy . this government be go to produce an industrial strategy so that we can have just as strong an economy as Germany , and a similar tax base . when Margaret Thatcher be elect in 1979 , we be the sick man of Europe . what she , Lord Howe and Lord Lawson do to the british economy in that period put we on a fast growth track than the german economy . since that time , we have be fall behind again . this Budget will help we fall behind again . element of this Budget be a defiance of reality , because behind the cheer for the 1p cut on draught beer be the real world outside . I have be watch the gilt rate — the 10 - year bond rate — on my telephone . it close yesterday at 4 . 362 % after go up substantially in the last hour of trading , and now stand at over 4 . 5 % . that mean the Budget have spook the market into increase the cost of borrowing , which the Government will have to pay . the idea that these measure be pain free , and that get more tax revenue in and borrow more be go to bail out the economy , be very flawed . I do not suggest there be go to be a bond crisis tomorrow , but we be enmesh in a debt trap in this country , as be so many other mature democracy , after the energy crisis and covid , so there be likely to be another liquidity crisis of some kind over the next few year . how well prepared will this Government be , if they have already put up taxis and borrow to spend on more consumption , rather than for our long - term economic benefit ? this be not a Budget for growth . apart from the initial impact of the extra spending in the forthcoming year , the throttling back of expenditure , then the decline in borrowing and the burden of the extra taxis , suppress economic growth , which the Office for Budget Responsibility be perfectly clear about . it be an empty promise for the Prime Minister to say , " we be go to prioritise economic growth . " this Budget simply do not prioritise economic growth . we have forget all the lesson of our economic history , learn from the disastrous policy of the 1960 and 1970 . if socialism work , everyone would do it . socialism do not work . this be a more socialist Government than we have see since the 1970 . they have forget what Tony Blair and Gordon Brown do . it be Gordon Brown who cut the capital gain tax rate . as Chancellor , Gordon Brown be the successor to Margaret Thatcher and continue with many of the same policy . Gordon Brown do not set up a ludicrous vanity project like great British Energy . he do not believe that take control of investment in a sector like energy would increase the wealth of the country . all the equivalent state - own enterprise around Europe lose money — the Government will not make a return in that sector . the hon . Gentleman mention Gordon Brown . yesterday ' s Budget start to restore the level of government spending as a share of the economy to level that be similar to those under Gordon Brown and the last Labour Government . it start to restore the foundation of our public service . do the hon . Gentleman welcome that restoration and investment ? I wish we could all have everything that we want . Gordon Brown inherit a golden economic legacy from the Conservatives in 1997 — [ interruption . ] yes , he do . debt be fall and growth be outstrip our competitor . by the time of the financial crash in 2008 , he have already increase borrowing and spending . the consequence of the financial crash be that he achieve what every Labour Government always achieve : they leave office with high debt , high unemployment and high inflation . that be what Labour government always do , and that be what this Labour Government be set to do again . rise — I be not go to give way any more . we need only look around the world to see that the idea that an ever - large state make the people rich be confound by economic experience , otherwise the rich country in the world would be those with the big state . it be business and free enterprise that generate the wealth that pay for the public service we need . we can all recall Milton Friedman ' s four way to spend money . there be people ' s own money that they spend on themselves : they think about it , spend it very carefully and make sure they get the maximum value for money . there be money that people spend on other people , such as when they buy a present : they may want to keep the cost down and may not be sensitive about whether the person really want a particular gift or not . there be somebody else ' s money that people spend on themselves : when people use expense account , they go on the most expensive aeroplane or get the big car their company will pay for . finally , there be somebody else ' s money that be spend on other people : that be what government do . it be a reality that government be the bad allocator of resource for ensure future wealth creation . that be just a fact . the record will always confirm that if we want to create more wealth , the small the state can be , the fast economic growth will be and the more we can afford to then spend on public service . this Government be profoundly un - strategic — just look at what the OBR say about investment : " tax rise in this Budget weigh on real income , so private consumption fall as a share of gdp " — that mean people be go to be get poor . it continue : " corporate profit be expect to continue fall as a share of gdp in the near term " . it add that " business investment fall as a share of GDP as profit margin be squeeze , and the net impact of Budget policy lower business investment . " be that good for the british economy ? I submit not . what about debt ? if someone have too much debt , the one thing they should do be not borrow more money , if they want to get out of a debt trap — [ interruption . ] member on the Government Benches have surgery attend by people who be in debt . the one thing hon . member will tell they not to do be to stack up more debt , but that be what the Government have choose to do . that be not a long - term policy . finally , what about GDP ? I take no pride in say that growth in GDP have be struggle for a decade or more — for about 14 year . yes , I do not think we do enough to dynamise the british economy . we do not do enough , but I be very grateful for the support of the Liberal Democrats for the first five year of the Conservative Government . that help we to keep public expenditure under well control so we could begin that process . GDP per head have really be flatline . we be fall significantly far behind the United States , but what be the trend ? on these trend , we will be overtake by Poland by 2030 in term of gdp per head . what be this Government do to address the real long - term trend ? let we look to 2050 . what be the shape of public expenditure go to look like in 2050 ? this Budget do not begin to address that . what will be our national debt on a long - term basis ? what be happen to our demographic , include the age population and the ratio of people in work and out of work ? what be this Government do to address that trend and to address the immigration trend , because that be add to the cost of our economy ? how will we be able to increase defence spending ? the Chief of the General Staff have recently say that this country could well be directly involve in a war within the lifetime of this Parliament . we will have to spend more on defence , as well as control the rest of the public sector . it be many decade since health , education and welfare start swamp out every other kind of expenditure in the Government . if we be to survive as a country , we will have to address these very damaging long - term trend . will the hon . member give way ? if the hon . Gentleman will forgive I , I be just draw to a close . what be the true cost of decarbonisation ? that be something that the Government be hopelessly naive about . it be as though invest in decarbonisation be somehow a get - out - of - jail - free card , and everybody ' s bill will start to come down , but anyone involve in the industry will say that that be not the case . the need to dynamise our zombie economy be still there and be make bad by the burden that this Government have inflict on we . how will we re - industrialise our economy when deglobalisation have take away the opportunity to import all the cheap thing that we use to make , but no long do ? those be the real strategic challenge , and the Budget do not begin to address they . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to speak about how this Budget be fix the foundation of our economy , which could not be more important for my constituent . I listen with interest to the remark of the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) about the last Labour Government . let we remember that the last Labour Government lift 900 , 000 child out of poverty . what cost to our economy be cause by poverty , rather than get people into work and secure for they the quality of life and living standard that they deserve ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? of course , because I have just mention the hon . gentleman in my speech . one hon . Member complain about food bank . actually , food bank start under Tony Blair . I think that we need to share these problem and concern . we need to understand each other ' s different approach to economic policy if we be eventually to have a solid approach to revive the economy of this country , but I be afraid that this Budget do not do that . there will be more poor people as a result of this Budget . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . in Scotland we say , " fact be cheil that winna ding . " the fact of the matter be that 900 , 000 additional child be lift out of poverty by the previous Labour Government , and the rise and use of food bank under this Administration have be exponential — to the extent that , now we as a Government be deal with food bank run out of food because of the level of poverty that we have inherit . this Budget will fix the foundation of our economy . it will redistribute wealth , tackle poverty and invest in growth . that be why we can look forward to what will be achieve by this government , thank to the decision take by my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer . anybody look at event in Scotland will see that my constituent have suffer from two government fail to deliver on investment and fail to deliver on growth . their mismanagement of the public finance stand in sharp contrast to the measure that have be buy forward by my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer , who have take some challenging decision on taxation , to ensure that there be no return to austerity and that we can invest in growth . the Budget give we the chance to move on from the reckless incompetence of the Tories here in Westminster and of the SNP in Holyrood . it be a chance to move on from the catastrophic mini - Budget of Liz Truss — a mini - Budget that cause so much damage to my constituent . the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) conjure up image of Halloween in her speech , but the economic nightmare be cause by the Conservative party , and our constituent pay the price in their living standard . those of we in Scotland can not underestimate the impact of the shambolic stewardship of Scotland ' s finance by the SNP . it be one thing for the SNP to crash the finance of its own party , but quite another to crash the finance of our country . the SNP Government have completely mishandle contract for much - need new ferry . other public sector project have be overspend by million , while other have be delay or cancel . they have also fail to spend hundred of million of pound which have be allocate to they in structural fund . funding for our local authority have be slash . the housing budget have be cut , and the Institute of Fiscal Studies assess that the scottish health budget face a real - term cut under the SNP in this financial year . while we know that this Budget be fix the foundation , so that we can deal with the reckless approach of the previous Government here , the SNP can not simply blame everyone else for its own mistake , as , yet again , it have attempt to do over the past 24 hour . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech , not least because he have mention both I and my constituency , so I be grateful to he for that . on that point about the SNP blame everyone else , he have just blame the SNP and then blame we . while he be look at all this guilt , he should consider the merry - go - round operating under Labour with its job for the boy . perhaps he might like to address that issue . I think the guilt should be feel by those on the conservative Benches . the fact be that we have inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the country ' s finance , and that have be assess independently by the OBR . that be how blame should be apportion . I be talk about matter in Scotland , which I be sure will be of interest to the hon . Lady and her constituent . the Scottish Fiscal Commission state that much of the pressure in Scotland come from the Scottish Government ' s own decision on cut in its last Budget . I very much welcome the additional £ 3 . 4 billion that will come to Scotland and our public service through this Budget . it be vital that the SNP learn from its mistake , and undo the damage that it have cause . I do not know where the SNP Members be today . perhaps they be travel back to Scotland in their own party campervan . my constituent can not put up any long with lengthen wait for hospital treatment , with find it so difficult to register for an NHS dentist , and with a housing crisis where so many people do not have the home they need or can not get a foot on the housing ladder . in my constituency , there can also now be no excuse for further delay by the Scottish Government in construct a new health centre for Lochgelly . the SNP have promise to deliver this for over a decade , but have fail to do so . in contrast , this Budget set out a different vision for our public service . this Government will invest in home and in our school . have work with the disability charity , Enable , prior to take my seat in this place , I be delighted with the announcement on social care and special educational need . it be astonishing to hear some member talk about our plan for wage in the social care sector . they seem to imply that our hard - work social care staff , who play such a huge role in our community , should not get fair pay for that vital role that they carry out for we and for our love one . the pension triple lock be protect . represent a constituency where there be so many former miner — 849 member of the mineworker ' pension scheme be live in Glenrothes and Mid Fife — I be delighted that this Government be ensure that more than £ 1 billion owe to they will be return , which will be an average of £ 29 a week more for each member , as my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) highlight in his excellent maiden speech — one of so many excellent maiden speech from Labour Members . as many of my constituent benefit from this Government ' s end an injustice of the past , more can look to investment in the future . the Budget be redistributive , but it be a Budget for growth , too , boost public investment by £ 100 billion over the next five year . a total of £ 125 million be immediately be invest in GB Energy , headquarter in Aberdeen . it be extraordinary , Madam Deputy Speaker , that when it come to the vote this week , SNP Members fail to back the establishment of GB Energy . far from stand up for Scotland , the one who be actually here be sit on their hand . renewable be a key and grow part not only of the scottish economy , but of our local economy in Glenrothes and Mid Fife . along with GB Energy focus on establish Scotland and the UK as a green energy powerhouse , the National Wealth Fund open up the potential for we to invest in our renewable infrastructure . as we seek to secure a long - term future for the Methil fabrication yard in my constituency , investment in the facility of that yard would ensure that the 200 - strong skilled workforce can play a vital role in take forward our ambition for our renewable sector . the election of Anas Sarwar as Scotland ' s First Minister will be require for my constituency to reap all the reward that the Budget have set the foundation for , but with £ 3 . 4 billion extra for Scotland in it , as the Scottish Trades Union Congress have say : " the task now fall to the Scottish Government to take the decision need to invest , through progressive taxation , into our community and public service . the Westminster blame game be finish . " this be a Budget for our public service , and a Budget to boost investment . this be a Budget for Scotland . may I join you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and colleague across the House in congratulate the hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) , for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) and for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) on their fantastic maiden speech ? we have hear that the Budget be about fix the foundation of our economy , as both the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have claim . if that be the case , many of my constituent in Epping Forest will be ask what exactly will be build on those foundation , and they may rightly be concern that some of that building may well be on top of our precious greenbelt . at its heart , when fix the foundation be promise but there be no coherent or evidence - base vision to underpin it , a misguided Budget like this one be what we end up with . before I go into further detail , I must acknowledge some of the announcement in the Budget that I welcome . the freeze on fuel duty , maintain for year by our Conservative Government , be very welcome for my constituent , who no doubt have face real worry about pay extra at the pump . I very much welcome the increase in SEND funding , which be so important to support our young people with special educational need . a penny off a pint be welcome , but it be small beer for landlord , who will struggle to pass it on when they be hit by the national insurance rise for employer and the reduction in business rate relief . reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete have unfortunately blight a number of school across my constituency , so the Labour Government honour the previous Conservative Government ' s commitment to funding rebuilding be most welcome , and I hope that we see action soon . I welcome his welcoming — I be sorry to repeat the word — of investment in school that have RAAC . do he agree that the time for the Government to spend money on repair those school be when Essex county council recognise the issue of RAAC in our school in 2012 ? have the Conservative Government do so , we would not be in the situation that we be in now . the situation with RAAC have build up over many year , under government of all colour . it be important that we stand together to sort out the problem as soon as possible so that the educational experience of our young people , and the staff who teach they , be improve . I welcome the fact that we will make progress on that , and I hope that we see action soon in school such as Buckhurst Hill community primary and Roding Valley high , which I visit just a couple of week ago . I discuss these very issue with staff and student . unfortunately , however , there be a number of area in the Budget where putative short - term gain have be prioritise for little to nothing in the long term . with the NHS facing pressure , it be one thing to provide day - to - day funding , but it would be very short - sighted to suspend or withdraw funding for key infrastructure project that would tackle the long - term issue face the NHS . the rebuild of Whipps Cross hospital in Leytonstone and the Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow , promise by the previous Conservative Government and now put on hold by labour , be so important for my constituent ' healthcare need — not just today or tomorrow but in the long term . while I be pleased that the Government have listen to I by honour the conservative commitment on the new community diagnostic centre come to St Margaret ' s hospital in Epping , I urge the Government to fulfil those much - need hospital rebuild to address the healthcare need of my constituent and of neighbouring constituent , include the constituent of the Health Secretary . I thank the hon . member for give way on two occasion . I would not normally intervene on a speech twice , but he refer to a hospital in my constituency : the Princess Alexandra . although he and I may have political difference , I welcome the opportunity to talk about the Princess Alexandra hospital as often as possible . do he recognise that part of the delay have be cause by the funding not be there for the new Princess Alexandra hospital , and do he recognise the work that I have do in lobby the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who have commit to a new hospital but recognise the challenge , because the funding be just not provide for by the previous Government ? I thank the hon . member , who be my neighbour , for his intervention . we have to get on with rebuild the Princess Alexandra and Whipps Cross , and we need to do it quickly . I also urge the Government to listen to my constituent ' concern about the introduction of vat on independent school fee . this tax on education impact not only 2 , 000 pupil in my constituency at independent school but our excellent local state school . some family will unfortunately have to move their child midway through the school year , or in the next year , to some of these fantastic school , some of which be already oversubscribed , impact class size . independent school provide a social good in my constituency and right across the country , provide access to high - quality facility , and provide access bursary . for many parent , independent school be a choice bear out of hard work and sacrifice . for some , they be the good way their child with special educational need can be support , amid the difficulty and delay find in the process of receive and deliver an education , health and care plan . once again , the suppose short - term gain come at the long - term expense of our child ' s future , and the Government must look again at reverse that punitive measure . unfortunately , harm aspiration flow not just through that education tax but in the measure that affect the everyday life of the work people the Labour Government claim to speak for — if they have finally work out who " work people " be . if someone strive to own their own business , they will be force to pay increase employer national insurance contribution for have that aspiration . business owner will have their business rate relief cut . People who rely on the bus to get to work or appointment will be penalise by the bus fare cap increase from £ 2 to £ 3 . we Conservatives introduce the £ 2 bus fare cap , which help people in urban and rural community alike , and we promise to deliver it for the whole of this Parliament . the Labour Government have callously rip up that lifeline bus ticket . will the hon . member give way ? no , I be go to carry on . for pensioner aspire to live in dignity in their retirement , this Labour Government have take away their winter fuel payment . that be just immoral . let I say a couple of word about national security . it be deeply disappointing that the Government be not heed call to commit to spending 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence now , when we really need to show our ally , and indeed our adversary , where we stand . nationally , it seem that another area of the Government ' s lack of vision be food security and biosecurity . food security be national security , and biosecurity be national security . over the last five year , agriculture and biosecurity have face a seismic shift as we have navigate our departure from the EU . this be an opportunity that our previous Government seize , with environmental land management scheme to ensure that farmer be reward for feed we , while protect our precious environment , and the border target operating model to keep our food industry safe from the biosecurity risk that pose a threat to both animal and human health . the last thing that the sector need be to learn that it will not get the stability and support of investment that be so desperately need . to state in the Budget document that farm scheme and flood defence funding will be review be no way to treat our farmer and rural community . we have hear a lot today about agricultural property relief , the change to which could devastate our farming sector , risk the decimation of the sector that we rely on to feed we and support our environment . the impact of the policy on family farm , the tenanted sector and our food security will be untold . family have have their succession planning turn on its head , and that inheritance tax pressure will have profound impact on people ' s mental health . farming community face huge challenge from shock event such as flood and animal disease outbreak , and chronic pressure of finance and rural isolation . these be people who we know be at high risk of mental health issue , and tragically suicide as well . I say that as a veterinary surgeon — a profession with similar risk factor . gallingly , this policy decision have break the promise that Labour make to our farming community . the opportunity have likewise be lose in the Budget to invest in the frontline of our defence against biosecurity risk — the Animal and Plant Health Agency , the a - team of our national biosecurity . its headquarters in Weybridge , Surrey need an urgent and full redevelopment , as outline by the National Audit Office report a couple of year ago . with biosecurity threat such as african swine fever afflict livestock in Europe , avian influenza not go away , and bluetongue virus bubble away in this country , a full funding of the headquarters in Weybridge be now more urgent than ever . we can not afford the devastation that biosecurity threat such as foot and mouth disease or african swine fever could wreak on our economy , our farmer , our food industry and rural mental health if we be not fire on all cylinder against these threat . this Budget ' s claim to fix the foundation fall short in meet the everyday need of the people of Epping Forest and of people throughout the United Kingdom . this short - termist Budget with a lack of evidence - base decision making will harm our country in the long term . an urgent rethink and reversal be need from those on the Treasury Bench . I and my conservative colleague will stand up for our constituent , who will suffer from this anti - aspirational and promise - break Labour Budget . I start by commend Labour Members for such wonderful maiden speech this afternoon . I be proud to support this historic Budget . our new Labour Government be work tirelessly to deliver the change that my constituent in Coatbridge and Bellshill need , and this Budget represent an important change — an important step towards fix the foundation and repair the damage cause by 14 year of economic mismanagement and fiscal vandalism by the previous Government . the scale of that challenge be immense — public service have be push to breaking point , wage have be stagnant for far too long , child poverty be on the rise and too many people in my constituency be force to work multiple job just to make end meet . in Scotland we have have the double whammy of two bad government . just like the Tories , the SNP have decimate our public service , push our NHS to the brink and force scot to pay more to get less , as my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) highlight in his excellent speech . the Budget offer significant support to my constituent and provide record funding for Scotland . on top of the £ 47 billion block grant , the level of investment in public spending outline by my right hon . friend the Chancellor will generate an extra £ 3 . 4 billion in Barnett consequential , result in the strong settlement yet for Scotland in the devolution era . sadly , the SNP Government have not yet work out whether to love or loathe this Budget , and as my hon . friend point out early , SNP Members be not here to tell we . as the Scottish Trades Union Congress highlight yesterday , however , the blame game be now over — the SNP Government have the money and they must act to address the challenge impact scot . the Budget have also address a number of fundamental injustice , from the infected blood scandal to Horizon and — critical for I — the mineworker pension scheme . represent mining community and as a member of the coalfield parliamentary group , I wholly welcome the ending of this injustice and the delivery of Labour ' s manifesto commitment of more than £ 1 billion to ex - miner . for the retire miner in the scheme in my community , that will mean an increase of £ 29 a week in their pension . end that scandalous injustice have not be a short or easy undertaking , and I commend my predecessor and all hon . and right hon . member who have fight on this for many year before my time in this place . I also commend the Government for their commitment to ensure that £ 20 million will come to Coatbridge in my constituency through the town fund . the previous Government announce that plan , but their fiscal irresponsibility put it in doubt . I be grateful to Ministers for take the time to meet I to discuss these matter and delight that the £ 20 million for Coatbridge be now cost and will be deliver by this Labour Government . that will allow our town board to help develop and deliver a long - term local plan , support business and secure investment . I be also delighted that the Budget deliver a pay rise for 200 , 000 scot . increase the national minimum wage by 6 . 7 % and , critically , start the journey to end age discrimination banding for 18 to 20 year - old by increase their wage by 16 . 3 % , be key step , as be the 18 % increase for under - 18 and apprentice . young people be not immune to the challenge link to the cost of live crisis and often struggle just to make end meet . it be unfair that , for so many of they , their work — their labour — be value less than that of their peer , simply because of their age . it have to end , and this Labour Budget have set we on a course to eradicate it . this be the first Budget of this new Labour Government , and it lay the foundation to deliver the change our constituent vote for . serve in Government be a privilege : it be an incredible honour that no party should take for grant . it be clear from the Conservatives ' action that their party fail to live up to that solemn duty ; they drive our country , our constituent , down a dirt path of decline until they run out of road . they try to mask their failing with fantasy economic and imaginary money pot , and it now fall to this Government to clean up their mess . it be not the only mess that Labour will have to clean up . the SNP Government be equally hapless , and we be count down the day to 2026 to deliver the change we need in Scotland too . after 14 year of failure , our Labour Government have set a new course — to restore public finance , transform public service , tackle poverty and raise living standard . this be an honest Budget , which do not cynically shrink from the challenge , but seek to tackle they head on — a Budget that will deliver the change that Scotland need , that Coatbridge and Bellshill need , and it should be welcome across the House . the first Budget of a new Government be always significant , but one can rarely have be set in such tricky circumstance . this one come follow a series of major shock — some of they external and unpredictable , as Opposition Members have say , such as the covid pandemic and the energy crisis , but some of they down to policy decision , such as the Brexit deal and the mini - Budget . it also sit in the long shadow of the financial crisis and over a decade ' s worth of cut to public service . growth have be stubbornly sluggish , the cost of living have erode people ' s wage , and as tax as a proportion of our national income have tick up , the capability of many to contribute more have diminish . the result of all of this be that our public service be under strain , our public finance be under strain and the british public be under strain . it be in that context that I try offer a constructive opposition to the Budget today — point out what I agree with , what I do not and where I think it can be well . Healthcare be the big issue for my constituent , so I will start there . at first glance it look like we have a big injection of cash into the NHS . that be a relief . I have previously warn about the counterproductive nature of further austerity , and I be cautiously optimistic that we might escape it in this area . but the rate at which the cash be be inject , alongside the speed at which it drop off , present question about how well it can be spend and what the hangover from this sugar rush might be . that require further scrutiny . on capital expenditure more broadly , I be glad that we be wake up to the real calculation that need to be make by seek to borrow to invest in vital infrastructure . I make my maiden speech on Second Reading of the Budget Responsibility Bill , and I take that opportunity to encourage a change to the fiscal rule . that be exactly the kind of geekery that you will get from I , Madam Deputy Speaker , now that I sit on the Treasury Committee . next week , I will go into more detail on " persnuffle " — PSNFL , or public sector net financial liability — and so on , but I will spare the House of that today . overall , I be pleased to see a move in that direction . I say " overall " because in my maiden speech , I use the example of rebuild my local hospital as the perfect no - brainer project that could be unlock by great willingness to borrow to invest — St Helier hospital be old than the NHS itself , and some part of the estate be literally crumble and desperately need investment in major work and a new building — so I be disappoint that we do not even receive great assurance about the progression of that project . I hope that the Health Secretary will soon return to the Chamber with further announcement . the other big gap in the Chancellor ' s Budget be on social care . as my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) say yesterday , it be still undeniably " the elephant in the … waiting room . " without address social care , any investment in the NHS will be fundamentally flawed . billion of pound will pour in , but it will be undermine by the failure to get people who would be well treat at home out of hospital . of course , that have a knock - on impact on local authority . I fear that the £ 600 million put forward yesterday to support council on social care will be spread too thinly , especially when factor in the impact of the national minimum wage and employer nic , so I ask the Government to consider extend the public sector exemption to the care sector . the Budget mean that council that be already on the brink be go to have to make some pretty unpalatable cutback just to survive . it mean that the mismatch between what taxpayer pay and the local service they receive will get bad . I hope that we get much great clarity next year on local government funding . my final point on the NHS relate to its potential to get our economy go again . far too many people be economically inactive because of ill health . that place a huge strain on our welfare budget , and if we be honest , we do not really have enough datum on what be drive it . I be worried that the Labour Government think that it be because we have suddenly become a nation of shirker . there be tough talk yesterday of carry over the Tory plan to get more punitive on work capability assessment . chase down benefit cheat might go down well with some newspaper , but that kind of demonisation of the sick be both shameful and ineffective . let I point to just one example . my dad , a proud scaffolder for most of his life , have work his sock off from Monday to Saturday every week , but he be now in his late 50 , and that kind of work be not easy . he start have trouble walk and have have to stop work , and it take month to get a diagnosis . when he finally find out that he have a hip problem , the NHS basically tell he to come back in a year , because it could not treat he until then . he ask what he be suppose to do about work , and be tell that he would have to sign off sick . do member think that my dad enjoy do that ? he hate it ; he be a proud work man be deny the opportunity to work . if the NHS could fix he today , he would be back in work tomorrow . here be my big bet : there be far more people like my dad than there be the benefit cheat that Labour focus on yesterday . so let we have some compassion and focus on what will really get people back into work . before I bring my remark to a close , I will touch on two big element that I plan to take up far on the Treasury Committee . the first be tax . I want the country to start a more honest conversation about tax . I know what some Labour member will be think , but the Liberal Democrats set out in our manifesto £ 27 billion - worth of tax and spend proposal , because we know that public service desperately need the cash injection . the labour manifesto propose only £ 5 billion in tax rise , but yesterday we be present with an increase of £ 40 billion . I be willing to accept that a black hole be leave behind , but those number do not add up . the Conservatives propose tax cut in their manifesto , and at the previous Budget , but it turn out that they be not base on realistic figure either . tax be always something to be " hit by " in politic — always deem a punishment instead of a contribution . it leave in tatter the debate about what a fair distribution of tax be , and trust in politic plummet as a result . we all need to do much well . my other point be about growth . we have have month of hear this Budget be pitch as one of growth , yet the OBR think that its effect will be broadly flat — at least over the forecast period . the conversation around how to achieve growth must get much more serious . growth in GDP — a very specific measure — should not be the sole way in which we evaluate the country ' s success , and someone who believe that it should must at least recognise that growth have not only a rate , but a direction , and it up to we , in this place , to set that direction . finally , I be advise recently that the key way to critique the Budget be to look out for the big number in the Red Book that the Chancellor do not mention . well , I will save that , but I will highlight a small number that the Chancellor do not mention : £ 40 million to trial a kinship care allowance . I move into the care of my grandparent as a teenager , and they would have be immensely grateful for that support , so I welcome the trial and hope that it be a roar success . I thank the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) for his comment about kinship allowance , which I will address in due course , because it be helpful when we have constructive opposition . however , he talk about the difficulty of obtain NHS treatment , and I remind he of the five year that the Liberal Democrats spend work alongside the Conservatives to bring about cut to our NHS , the police and many other vital service . I will leave it at that . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor on the Budget , which be clearly the start of a new chapter towards make Britain well off . I can see clearly how it link into our Labour target of secure the high sustained growth in the G7 , as well as into our other mission of have an NHS fit for the future and break down barrier to opportunity . it be clear that there be a strategy for achieve aspiration and provide people with support . those two thing can truly combine to make our country great . one measure that will affect my Congleton constituency be the work that will now continue at pace for hospital affect by the RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — crisis , include Leighton hospital in Crewe , which serve many of my constituent . the hospital still have paper note ; it do not have an electronic record system . the major reason for that be that it have spend over £ 100 million in the past few year just on prop up its wall . that kind of failure spend to sustain the hospital ' s most basic physical infrastructure mean that the investment to make the NHS fit for the future can not be make . I look forward to be part of a Government who enable we do the sort of forward - think work in which we stop make short - term decision that simply prevent people from have access to the care that they need — we must work in a rational manner . People in the NHS , include doctor and nurse in my constituency , will be grateful that we be move in that direction . the NHS have be break , but the Budget will begin to fix it . our social care system have also face significant challenge in recent year . again , this Budget begin to fix that . alongside the £ 600 million in grant support for local authority , I be so pleased to hear about the £ 86 million increase in the disability facility grant , which will enable we to support 7 , 800 more home adaptation . as I think we all know , people want to stay in their home for as long as possible , and it be our duty as a Government to facilitate that . similarly , I be pleased to see the 4 . 1 % uplift in the state pension through the triple lock , which will enable more than £ 475 per year to be give to many pensioner across the country . we be also go to see the big ever cash increase in the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance , mean that many more thousand of carer in my constituency can increase their income — which be so important for people ' s dignity — and many more people will be able to access carer ' s allowance for the first time . I also want to say an enormous thank you to the kinship carer in my constituency : those grandparent , old sibling , aunt and uncle , extended family member and family friend who be look after child . they will welcome the announcement of £ 44 million to support kinship and foster carer , include through the new kinship allowance trial . speak of child , I turn now to school . school across the country be crumble . RAAC school specifically have hit the headline , but there be many other fundamental structural problem in many of our school — school that be decimate overnight by the previous Government ' s scrapping of the Building Schools for the Future programme . this Budget will begin to fix those problem , with £ 1 . 4 billion allocate to deliver classroom that child can learn and thrive in , and a £ 2 . 3 billion increase in the core school budget to support the recruitment of 6 , 500 new teacher . it will also enable we to properly fund pay rise for the public sector , which be so important for retain the experienced teacher on whom we rely . I be delighted that £ 1 billion of that £ 2 . 3 billion increase will go towards fix our special educational need system and system for disabled child within education . it be so important that we get that right : parent in my constituency and their child be desperately reliant on we for it . our childcare system have also be struggle , which have have huge implication for parent ' ability to go to work . this Budget will begin to fix that by allocate £ 1 . 8 billion to continue the expansion of government - fund childcare , which will help people to stay in , and return to , work . More than a quarter of child in my constituency of Congleton live in relative poverty after housing cost . the roll - out of free breakfast club in primary school be a very welcome measure to help struggle family . moreover , the increase in the national minimum wage will have an enormous impact on family and on child poverty . some 70 % of child in this country who be grow up in poverty live in a family with at least one work parent . it be low wage that be cause those problem , and I be very pleased that we be address they . our road have also be break by 14 year of austerity , and again , this Budget will begin to fix they . the investment of £ 500 million to fix an additional 1 million pothole per year be a good start . driver in my constituency will welcome that investment , as well as the continue fuel duty freeze . of course , business will welcome many of the step in the Budget as well . while we be increase the national living wage to support worker , we be also support small business through an increase in the employment allowance , fair business rate , start - up loan , growth hub and the new national wealth fund . small business in my constituency will also welcome the funding the Chancellor have commit to tackle shoplifting , which affect all of our shopping bill and be worth billion of pound to the economy every year . shopkeeper in my constituency recently tell I and the Cheshire police and crime commissioner , Dan Price , that they have give up on try to report shoplift in many instance because it be simply not a good use of their time . I be so pleased that we will begin to address this issue . we be begin to get the fundamental right . under the last government , there be so many counter - productive cut that undermine our national productivity . this Budget do not stand alone as a one - off event . rather , it be part of a coherent set of plan to ensure that our public service be reform and that we be able to develop cross - departmental working in government and deliver what work people need to have a good quality of life , an nhs that be there when they need it and work that pay . I look forward to work with businesspeople and family in my constituency to ensure that we get the delivery of those plan right over time , but right now , this Budget look like a solution that will begin to fix the NHS and social care ; rebuild hospital and school ; fix the SEND system ; and rebuild confidence in our public service , in the economy and in our future as a country . I be pleased to follow the hon . member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) . it be enlightening for I to listen to she because she list a huge array of thing on which the Government be now go to be spend a lot more money . they be all very good cause of absolute benefit to the people of our country . the one problem I have listen to she , and to all the Labour Members , be that we do not have any money leave : we have spend it all . we have to spend half a trillion pound on the pandemic , but I notice that no one have mention that . we be , in effect , run on tick . we be live beyond our mean , we be spend money we do not have , and all we be do , laudable though it may be to spend the money we be discuss today , be hand huge debt to future generation . I have to remind Labour Members that every Labour Government we have ever have in my lifetime have leave this country with high debt , more unemployment and an economy in a bad state . I would also remind they that it be in 1979 , after year of fail socialist government , that we finish up have to rebuild the economy under a Prime Minister who have the determination to do what be right for our country , and those economic reform lead to year of prosperity . it sound as though the hon . Member be give up on Britain . he seem to be say that there be no point in try to find a well future for ourselves because there be no money leave , and the previous Labour Government leave no money . would he recognise that the level of debt leave in this country at the end of the recent Conservative Administration be twice what be leave by the Labour Government in 2010 ? the hon . member forget about the pandemic and its associate cost . the reality be that we have to create the wealth before we spend it . for many year I have hear Labour Members talk about how to spend money . I very rarely hear how we actually create the wealth we need to spend on our public service , and that be where it all go wrong . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not give way . the Chancellor yesterday paint a dire picture of our country ' s future . under Labour , it be not the economy that be boom but the size of the state , with an ever - increase burden of taxation on work people . under this government , it be not the businessman in my constituency of Romford who be be support with the future success of their enterprise but the climate alarmist , with a public energy company that will not even produce any energy . how sensible be that ? it be not the young family in area such as Collier Row or the pensioner in Rush Green — both in my constituency — who be be support by , for example , a decrease in stamp duty or help with energy payment , but , of course , the union boss who be able to deliver over - inflated pay rise to the public sector , and the private sector be once again pay for that . despite the Government ' s talk of growth , this Budget be prepare we for the return of the dark day of the 1970 , with hard - work people pay the price . indeed , the Government be so lacking in aspiration for this country that they want the Office for Budget Responsibility not only to mark their work but , it seem to I , to do their homework completely . they be even gift the OBR more power , as be outline in the King ' s Speech . in my view , Britain ' s potential be far great than a high - tax , low - growth and dysfunctional big state . far from my " give up on Britain " , as the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) say — quite the opposite — I love this country , I believe in this country , and I hate to see what socialism have do to this country over the year . labour government always end up in a bad situation than when they start , and conservative government always have to come in and pick up the piece , and restore the economy back to prosperity and vibrancy again . in five year ' time , I be sure we will have to do the same . it be now clear that , under this Labour Government , the british people face a tyranny of taxation . not content with the record - break tax burden that already exist , Labour be add to the load on the shoulder of hard - work people . under Labour , it will be hard than ever to buy a property . the journey to work of my constituent in Romford who be lucky enough to own their own home be go to be even more expensive than it be already under the control of the Mayor of London , Mr Khan , with the rise in bus fare . once they get to work , my constituent will have far less in their pay packet , because the increase in national insurance pay by employer will , of course , clearly be pass on to employee . it be nothing but a stealth tax by this supposedly transparent Labour Government , and it be job destroy . business in my constituency have already be tell I that they will not be employ people because of this reckless increase in national insurance . my constituent , all our constituent , might even lose their job . [ interruption . ] they will lose their job , as business struggle with the national insurance increase . the cost of that will be phenomenal , and the growth - crush increase in capital gain tax will also have a big impact . as if that be not enough , when someone sadly pass away , the Labour Government want to make it even hard for they to pass on what they have earn throughout their life to their loved one , by expand inheritance tax to pension and so on . that be incredibly cruel . People pay tax throughout their life , and will pay more tax when they die . be that really the kind of thing a Labour Government should be do ? it will harm a lot of family who would inherit but will not be able to because of the cash grab from this Budget . I do not believe that the Government be pro - worker at all . they can not even define what a worker be . labour use to be the party of the state from cradle to grave . now it seem to be the party of tax my Essex constituent from cradle to grave and beyond . this have be a very essex - weight debate , with contribution from my hon . friend the Members for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) and for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) and other . People in my county of Essex be very disillusioned by all this , because they be aspirational and hard - work . they be market trader and small business people . they will be devastate by all this . I warn Labour Members that they will find that out when they next knock on door in their constituency . as Margaret Thatcher warn we — [ Laughter . ] well , she do rescue our country ' s economy ; let ' s be honest about it . [ interruption . ] she really do , and we be still benefit today from the reform that she introduce . as Margaret Thatcher say , any Government who impose high taxation be take power away from the people and give themselves power over the people . of course taxation at some level be always necessary . it have to be in place to support our nation ' s armed force , to support family and protect pensioner , and for investment in necessary infrastructure and public service for the future . but what be the Labour Government do with all the hard - earn money that the work people of this country have create ? I think they will be spend billion of pound on thing that will go to waste . do the hon . Gentleman not think that there be quite a lot of waste under the previous Government ? there be dodgy personal protective equipment contract that do not result in money be spend on PPE . be that the sort of waste our Government should claw back ? I have to say that I agree with the hon . Gentleman . the last Government waste a huge amount of money — [ interruption . ] no , they do . no wonder we lose the election . but this be not a political point ; this be about how we run the country effectively and efficiently . my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex make a range of serious point about how we be go to survive as a country . we can not keep spend money like this . it do not work , and future generation will suffer because of it . the last government fail , but this Government be go way far . this be all simply unaffordable , and I worry about the future of our country if we can not see where this will eventually lead . the Labour Government be spend billion of pound on a renewable energy company that will not produce any energy — another vanity project . they be spend billion of pound on public sector wage hike , and be pour even more taxpayer ' money into public service , with virtually no concrete productivity target . do the hon . Gentleman accept that those pay rise will go to hard - work people who be themselves taxpayer ? look , we have to live within our mean . of course I do not object to money be spend wisely and sensibly — it be the role of any government to ensure that the money we spend go where it be really need in our country . the problem I have be that all this be unaffordable . we be about 100 % of our gdp in debt . that be the high that debt have be in our entire history . we can not go on do this . eventually it will all come crash down , and every hon . member who let it happen without speak out , as I be do today , will have to take responsibility when future generation have to pick up the piece . we can not afford the debt we be get into . if hard - work people be be tax , they rightly expect the money to be put to good use , to boost infrastructure . we should focus on local service and economic growth , not ideological consumption . again , the people of Romford and throughout the borough of Havering and the county of Essex will be rightly outraged that there be so much unfairness , especially in local government funding . the funding formula have not be address in the Budget , from what I can see . that be a serious issue in the London borough of Havering , where my constituency be base . despite this be the great example of tax and spend that I can remember since I have be a Member of Parliament , nothing have be do to address that very serious problem . the funding formula be unfair , outdated and discriminatory . it fail to address local demographic shift . local people , business and public service be the bedrock of our economy . they face acute financial pressure in my constituency . they deserve an ambitious programme of reform , so that the money we pay in can be spend on our local service , instead of we close down library and facility , which my council be sadly now do — necessarily , because of a lack of funding . it be a question of priority . my local council should not close library , but at the end of the day , we be not be fund fairly , and the Government need to address that . if local service be not provide , people will be angry and disillusioned , and local community will be harm . I speak not only for Essex and the surround London borough , but for all hard - work people the length and breadth of this country when I say that the United Kingdom have no place be a high tax , low growth and low aspiration nation . if the Chancellor want growth , I encourage she to look to nation whose economy be expand much fast than our be due to under the sluggish and rather depress growth forecast she outline yesterday . the formula for some of those country be the same , whether they be in north America , Asia or Europe : low taxis that give people back the money that be rightly theirs , policy that incentivise enterprise and growth in the economy , and a lean state with minimal regulation . investment in infrastructure be critical , and truly local public service be vital to people . they also create a basis for private investment . in Britain , cut red tape and reap the benefit of Brexit — we really should do that — will attract booming business and stimulate success . the mantra that the state should manage decline need to be reject . the british people deserve well than this . I encourage the Government to follow not the example of fail Labour Governments litter throughout history , but the nation - save policy embark on in 1979 by a Prime Minister who have a vision of a great Britain and more prosperous United Kingdom . we must pursue an agenda of low taxis , economic growth and an efficient state that improve the public service that look after the elderly and those truly in need . the people of this country do not want , and simply can not afford , a return to red - blooded socialism that discriminate against hard - work people , decimate our economy , destroy job , curtail growth and restrict freedom . the british people need a small state that work , not a bloated state that hold our country back . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , even though I fundamentally disagree with everything that he say . I know that he will take that in the right spirit . I congratulate all colleague who make their maiden speech . the speech be fantastic and move , and I wish they all a really wonderful time in this Parliament and , I hope , Parliaments to come . progressive Governments be judge on whether they deliver high standard , and I welcome the direction of travel that our first woman Chancellor take yesterday . it be good to hear that for the first time , the cost of living will be take into account when calculate the national minimum wage . I also welcome the step towards a single adult wage rate , with 18 to 20 - year - old receive a 16 . 3 % increase . I hope that those kind of revision will continue . those be valuable example of the change that a Labour Government will make to low - income household . a key feature of this Budget be that it can safeguard exist job in the north - east and help to create new well - pay job for the people I represent . one of the big sector in our north - east industrial base be the offshore energy sector — that is , oil and gas company that work in the North sea , and the associate supply chain . we be proud to have those job in my constituency , and we must anchor they here in the UK and avoid their be attract overseas . last year , in Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend , the offshore sector add £ 2 million in gross value add and support thousand of job . that be just a snapshot from the region , where the sector contribute £ 416 million and more than 4 , 500 good job overall . I be pleased that my right hon . friend the Chancellor recognise the reality : that oil and gas will be essential to our economy and for energy security for decade to come , especially give that if we misstep , we will simply have to rely on import , which be more expensive , have a high carbon footprint and do not deliver any tax yield . this Government have commit to ensure that the North sea be manage in a way that do not jeopardise job and continue to attract necessary investment , with the delivery of net zero and energy transition be an exciting prospect . a successful home - grow energy transition have the potential to deliver the economic growth that the country need . I know that the oil and gas sector and its representative body , Offshore Energies UK , find yesterday ' s budget encouraging . they be grateful for the positive engagement from the Secretary of State , the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Exchequer Secretary over the summer . they recognise that the energy profit levy serve a purpose , but the commitment to look at unwind it , and to find a new permanent regime , can give company and investor the confidence that they need to invest in our UK . I look forward to help Ministers succeed , but I will of course also hold they to account . I will also hold the industry to account on its commitment to support worker , deliver a fair transition and provide retrain and working standard for all . the trade union be keen and willing to play their part . offshore Energies UK estimate that with the right investment environment , UK offshore energy company could invest £ 200 billion in home - grow energy this decade alone , support the UK to reach 50 GW of wind and 10 GW of hydrogen , reduce reliance on oil and gas , and allow we to scale up to at least four carbon capture and storage cluster by 2030 — an exciting prospect indeed . move away from the economy and on to local government , I welcome the 6 % real - term increase in spending on SEND and alternative provision . the SEND system be break . in my constituency , child have be hold back from flourish and reach their true potential . the £ 865 million to help plug deficit be a movement in the right direction . I urge the Chancellor to build on that move into the spending review in the spring . today , Longbenton councillor Karen Clark have be select as Labor ' s candidate for the North Tyneside 2025 mayoral election . Karen welcome the Chancellor ' s historic Budget and look forward to promote its promise investment for local government during her forthcoming campaign . on social security , the reduction in the deduction cap will help to minimise the financial impact of debt repayment , with those benefit keep an extra £ 420 a year . it be a smart , fiscally neutral way to help reduce negative household budget and raise living standard . however , the commitment to deliver the conservative plan to reform the work capability assessment and to deliver the inherit saving have worry many with limited capability for work and work - relate activity . I hope the House will be give time to examine and debate that when the proposal be outline in great detail . as the chair of the responsible vaping all - party parliamentary group , I have concern about the announce tax on vape liquid from 2026 . there be still 6 million smoker who have yet to make the switch to vaping , and a tax on vaping will only serve to discourage those smoker to quit . the vaping tax propose by the Chancellor be unsustainably high , at 22p per ml of vape liquid . it will make the UK ' s tax one of the high in Europe . the tax will also hurt work people throughout the north - east who rely on vape to keep they off cigarette . currently , many store sell vaping liquid for refillable device for 99p . under the Chancellor ' s proposal , that will increase by 267 % to £ 3 . 64 . access to vape liquid be not drive youth vaping — the Government be already look to address that through the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . I fear that the tax on vape will hurt people who have make the decision to switch from smoke to the less harmful alternative — a decision that have already save the NHS ten of thousand of pound per person . yesterday ' s Budget have renew the hope of ordinary people that the future can be different — a Labour Budget for low - income household , work people and child . our public service can be rebuild , living standard can begin to turn around , and our politic can deliver progress again . it have be a real privilege to share the debate with so many maiden speech this afternoon — something I do not expect . my hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) be not in her place just now , but I be sure her father would have be proud of she , as will her husband . I have a fantastic charity in my constituency call Dads Rock , which support dad and give they confidence . it sound like her husband be a dad who rock . it have be remarkable that Margaret Thatcher have be invoke quite a few time . it be quite unusual for her name to be mention so many time in my presence . I grow up in Fife during the 1980 , and I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) would agree that the impact that she have there be still feel today . People still feel the impact of the rapid deindustrialisation of proud community . I be sure that my hon . friend have casework still about the impact of that . it be emotional yesterday to hear the Chancellor deliver her fantastic speech . I be still a little hoarse today from all the emotion . this be the Budget our country need , and the IMF agree , which be incredible . it be great news for Labour MPs to wake up to this morning — I expect colleague from other party be less happy . the chance of my be elect be always slim , but I promise those I meet on the campaign trail that Labour would get our country back on track . yesterday ' s Budget be proof that we be serious about that . we have spend the week since the election clearing up the mess which be leave by other , but the Budget set down the foundation for what we want to do next . it be transformative Budget . I can not believe we be achieve so much in our first Budget , but it be only the start of a real change for our country . the Budget will work for both the work people who call Edinburgh South West home , but also the young and retire people who deserve well - fund public service . the measure that we set out yesterday be a re - set , establish the tone for the remainder of this Parliament and for the come decade , not just five year . go be the irresponsible commitment , without plan to follow through , that we have be deal with since the election . it feel like the grown - up be now run the country . we have a Budget that provide the stability to encourage growth and investment in our nation ' s infrastructure and our public service . after read through the detail of the Budget , it be clear that when my colleague Anas Sarwar say , " read my lip : no austerity under Labour " he mean it . the Chancellor have deliver . the Budget will deliver for the people of Scotland , with a record - break £ 47 . 7 billion for the Scottish Government ' s budget in 2025 - 26 . that have the potential to be entirely life change not just for my constituent , but for people right across Scotland . the Chancellor yesterday prove that when labour win , Scotland win , with the measure announce result in more investment per head of population in Scotland than in the rest of the UK . the Scotland Office be now equip with a budget for trade mission around the world , sell brand Scotland and bring in new investment and custom to countless scottish business . some 200 , 000 of the lowest - pay scot will also feel the benefit in their payslip . we will close the age band on the living wage , which have always be unacceptable . the Budget have protect work scot and have lay the foundation for a new era of investment and growth in Scotland , raise money from those with the broad shoulder . with all that in mind , I find it rather embarrass that SNP Members talk with a straight face about this be an austerity Budget . it be almost as if they write their speech before they hear the Budget . it be quite curious . I can only guess — as other have comment , none of they be here today — that they be busy rewrite their line and think about how they be go to respond . but I think a lot of people in Scotland will find it unacceptable that no SNP Members be here today to engage in this debate . be it not time , when the UK Labour Government have give the Scottish Government their large ever fund settlement , that the SNP begin to take responsibility for its own mismanagement of Scotland ' s finance ? in government , the SNP have waste million on pet project rather than the service on which so many scot rely . we have have ferry with paint window . as I speak , a hospital in Edinburgh be be close as an emergency action because of a lack of maintenance . this be not a small hospital . the Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion cater for 1 , 400 out - patient per week and it have be close almost overnight . it be a plan process , but one that have be force . it be absolutely incredible and shameful . in parallel with that , local authority have be starve of cash and our town and city have find their public service decimate . on Tuesday , I meet third sector group in my constituency who be prepare to make staff redundant due the pressure of SNP cut to social care . at 10 past 12 yesterday , just as the Chancellor be get ready to speak , I receive a WhatsApp message from a GP serve one of the most deprived part of my constituency . she describe the cut to social care service in Edinburgh as catastrophic and devastating . at quarter past 11 last night , I receive an email from a GP make exactly the same point . the SNP will blame Westminster or howl austerity , but in reality that be mince — that be a scottish phrase , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Scottish Government ' s own decision be to blame for " much of the pressure " face Scotland ' s finance . that be not just my view , but the consider view of the official economic forecaster in Scotland . the Budget present the Scottish Government with a choice . they can use the record funding to own the problem that they create and get our public service back on track , include the social care service I talk about . the only alternative to that be hand over power to Anas Sarwar in Scotland , because more guddle can not be an option but I fear that that be what we be go to get . if the SNP be not up for that challenge , Scottish Labour be ready to step in . my constituent know more than most the impact of the SNP ' s cut and mismanagement , because Edinburgh — Scotland ' s capital — have the worst - fund local authority in Scotland . with this additional funding , it be high time that the Scottish Government do the right thing and stop starve our council of the resource it need . Councillor Cammy Day , Edinburgh ' s council leader , make that demand yesterday . let we hope that the funding will be a lifeline to social care provider . in 2026 , scottish voter will have the opportunity to elect a Scottish Labour Government that will work hand in hand with this UK Labour Government to continue to deliver for the people of Scotland . however , until then , we Scottish Labour mps , and our colleague at Holyrood and in council chamber , will hold the Scottish Government to account for how they choose to spend the additional funding . after all , I think we can all agree that the Scottish Government have not just need more cash ; they have need to get well at spend it . we see yesterday what a Labour Chancellor can do to turn around the life of work people , even in the face of a shocking legacy hand to we by the Conservatives . this Government have give the Scottish Government all the financial tool they need to succeed . just imagine how truly transformative it would be if we have a Scottish Labour Finance Secretary work in partnership with a Labour Chancellor here in London . that be our goal . it have be a pleasure to listen to so many excellent maiden speech this afternoon , and to hear so many colleague say such positive word about a Budget that I be excited to support . every single member on these Labour Benches represent a mandate : a mandate we be give by the british people when they vote for change on 4 July . they do not just vote for Labour Members to sit on these Benches and continue the last Government ' s fail policy of austerity and decline ; on 4 July , people vote for real change . I be delighted to say that this Budget have set we on a path that will change our country for the well . it begin the process of fix the foundation of our broken economy , it set in motion the investment need to deliver change , and it remain steadfast that no work person will see high taxis in their payslip . the country know that the conservative party fail we with a cost of living crisis , a shoddy Brexit deal and a dreadful mini - Budget that fracture our economy , and work family in town like Halesowen feel its failure hard . People across my constituency have share countless story of their struggle to cope , with their bill go up , their wage stagnate and no help from the Government . the last Parliament be the first in modern history to leave living standard low at its end than they be at its start . People have be exasperate with our public service . they have watch relative wait month and year for NHS treatment , see their local service close , and see the public infrastructure crumble around they . they be tired — tired of live under a government that do not deliver on their commitment , tired of see our public service get bad year after year , and tired of wait for a government that would bring about genuine , last change . yesterday , I be proud to listen to the Chancellor as she set out the plan to change our country . I be delighted to hear her focus on fix the foundation of our economy , on real investment in our public service and , rightly , on put the burden on those with the broad shoulder . with each announcement , I begin piece together what the Budget will mean for our community in Halesowen . it deliver a real difference for those most in need of help : a 6 . 7 % increase in the national living wage , put £ 1 , 400 more in the pocket of retail worker , pub staff and many other ; an increase of the carer ' s allowance earning limit to £ 196 a week — carer ' charity in my constituency , such as we Love Carers , have say that that will make a vital difference to carer by allow people on really low income to earn that little bit extra to support their family — and a £ 25 billion investment in our NHS , meet our promise to bring wait time down to no long than 18 week , just as they be under the last Labour Government . however , what I be most pleased by be the funding for our town centre and local community . it pain I to say it , but our high street have struggle in recent year — I have see many independent shop close , and our community centre be really struggle — so I be delighted that the Government be provide £ 1 billion to support our high street and community , and the infrastructure that will support people across Halesowen . that include £ 20 million to regenerate Halesowen town centre , and an additional £ 20 million to redevelop Haden Hill leisure centre in Cradley Heath . both be really important project that be promise under the last government , but no funding be provide , so I be delighted to see that this Government have make that available . People deserve well , and Halesowen deserve well . it be time for revitalisation , and these commitment will do just that . this Budget set a precedent , and this Government be laser - focused on deliver for our community . it be a Budget for growth , a Budget for investment , a Budget for fair taxation , a Budget for worker and a Budget for stability . it be a Labour Budget , and I be proud to support it . it be a Budget that will change our country , and I be hopeful for the year ahead . I congratulate all those on this side of the House who have make their maiden speech this afternoon . it have be absolutely fantastic to hear all those story . it have be a long 14 year since we have a Government and a Budget that will deliver for Scotland , the UK and work people . we have have 14 year of austerity , 14 year of chaos , seven Chancellors and 19 fiscal event , but not one of they deliver a thing . opposition MP after Opposition MP — wherever they have go — welcome investment and say , " I want a new hospital ; I want this and that , " but not one of they have an idea about how to pay for it . yesterday , I be proud to sit and listen to a Chancellor who be be honest with the british people about the mess that be leave , what we will spend , the improvement that we will make , and how we be go to pay for they . that be what change yesterday as we hear the first female Chancellor deliver the first Labour Budget in 14 year , and what a Budget it be . it boost public investment by over £ 100 billion and maintain the fuel duty freeze and 5 % cut , which be vital for family and small business in Dunfermline and Dollar , and across Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom . alongside that , the Budget support the take - up of electric vehicle and abolish non - dom tax loophole , raise £ 12 . 7 billion . it increase , extended and reform the energy profit levy , as we promise to do , and kick - start GB Energy , which be headquarter in Aberdeen , to deliver the clean energy and green job that we will need in the future . despite GB Energy be describe by Conservative Members as a vanity project , it will deliver the infrastructure that this country need , which they fail to deliver in 14 year . we have increase the employment allowance for small business to £ 10 , 500 . as someone who use to run a small business , I know how well that will be receive . we have preserve the state triple lock on pension , which will see over 12 million pensioner gain up to £ 475 next year . we have provide an uplift of £ 2 . 9 million for the defence budget , while maintain £ 3 billion in annual support for Ukraine for as long as it take . as have be mention by my hon . friend , this UK Labour Government will deliver a total of £ 47 . 7 billion in Scotland — the large settlement in the history of devolution . that include an additional £ 1 . 5 billion for the Scottish Government this financial year , and an additional £ 3 . 4 billion next year . it be a bonanza of expenditure ; a lot of money be be spend . the hon . Gentleman say early that he would explain how it will be pay for . just for clarification , will he please explain where all this money be come from and how we be go to pay off the debt in the long term ? I believe the Chancellor outline all of that absolutely perfectly yesterday . I would never seek to improve on the performance of our fantastic Chancellor , from whom we hear just yesterday . whereas the rest of the UK have only have to endure 14 year of the Conservatives ' incompetence , we in Scotland have suffer even more . we have have 17 year of the SNP blame the Tories for its own economic incompetence and decision . we have have year of two fail government who have be content to play political game , rather than come to the help of the people of Scotland . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . follow yesterday ' s Budget , there will be a significant increase in investment in further education , which be critical to deliver the skill revolution that we need . in Scotland , further education have be decimate by the SNP Government . do he agree that they need to recognise the important step take by the Chancellor and follow suit ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . as I and other member from Fife know , we be celebrate the 125 - year anniversary of Fife College . I will attend a college dinner this week and I will make exactly that point to those attend . further education be critical in provide the skill that Scotland need , as I say yesterday during Scotland question in relation to the defence sector . we need to ensure that the investment be provide by this Government be well use in Scotland to develop the skill that we need . we have have year of two fail government but that time be come to an end . it will truly end only in May 2026 when the people of Scotland have the opportunity to elect a Scottish Labour Government . but before the SNP exit stage right — although SNP Members seem to have exit the Chamber during this debate — I urge it to use the record funding wisely and start deliver for the people of Scotland . the SNP Government must abandon their austerity programme of cut to public service and a focus on their pet project as they have go along . they might be on their way out the door , but the least they owe the people of Scotland be not to leave the same kind of mess as their partner in constitutional distraction , the Tories , have leave for the rest of the UK . that include project such as the Kincardine health centre in my constituency . like the health centre mention by my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) , that have be delay by more than a decade after be promise by the SNP . alongside the good news , we hear the Chancellor outline the mess and legacy leave after 14 year of Conservative Government , who make announcement with no fund allocate . among the empty promise from the Conservative Members be the £ 500 million of cultural funding promise to the city of Dunfermline in my constituency . while it be absolutely clear that the blame for that lie with the previous Government , it be none the less disappointing for the city of Dunfermline that the Government have be force to consult on and review the funding . Dunfermline be an old city and the historic capital of Scotland , but it be officially award city status only in 2022 . it be a grow city , which have the potential to be the drive force for the economy of Scotland . to achieve that , however , we need the right investment and support . as the consultation on cultural funding be under way , prior to the Budget , I also write to the Chancellor of the Exchequer ask for assistance and support to find a small amount of investment for the port of Rosyth in my constituency to enable a new , regular passenger and freight service between Scotland and the continent . with major local employer such as Mowi and Amazon UK in the area , a ferry service to Europe would far strengthen their position as major contributor to the Fife economy and provide the option of more environmentally friendly logistic by remove truck journey from the road . both the previous UK Conservative Government and the current SNP Scottish Government have talk about support that project , but neither have be willing to make the necessary investment . have be fail by the previous Government promise money that they do not have , will minister meet I and other behind these plan to find way of perhaps fund that commitment ? yesterday , we truly turn the page on 14 year of Tory austerity and have give the UK and Scotland the chance to grow and succeed again . I will be the proud Member of Parliament to support this Budget , which fix the foundation of our country and set we on a path to prosperity and growth in the future . it be a privilege to rise as Dartford ' s first Labour MP for 14 year to welcome the first Labour Budget for 15 year . but before I do so , I pay tribute to those who have make their maiden speech this afternoon ; they have be inspire and personal , and member have talk about their journey and lovingly about their constituency . I thank member for those , and congratulation on they . Dartmouth , like much of the country , be at a crossroad after more than a decade of conservative failure , with our economy stagnate and our public service break and unable to be the safety net that my constituent need . Labour Members be elect on a promise of change , and yesterday ' s Budget deliver that with a hugely welcome focus on investment to get our economy move , set the foundation for growth and begin to fix our school , our hospital and our broken road . it be astonishing to hear Conservative Member after Conservative Member say how they wish to see public service improve in their constituency , without will any mean to pay for it . the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , for example , seem to want european level of public service on american level of taxation . that be not possible , but this Government be achieve european - level public service support by european - level taxation , bear by those with the broad shoulder . the Chancellor be absolutely right that we must grow our economy . nowhere be this truer than in the Thames estuary , which have the potential to be one of the UK ' s engine of growth , with 1 . 3 million new job , 1 million new home and £ 190 billion - worth of additional value add by 2050 . in this Parliament , I hope to work with mps on both side of the House and from across the estuary region , as well as with Ministers , to make real progress . work be already under way on establish an all - party parliamentary group on the Thames estuary , which will work with Ministers on the fair growth agenda set out by the Government - sponsor Thames Estuary growth board . for the small number of people who have follow my short parliamentary career to date , it will come as no surprise to learn that I believe that a key shovel - ready piece of infrastructure , the low Thames crossing , will be crucial to our investment in the estuary . currently , we have only one road crossing of the Thames east of London , at Dartford — a single point of failure that can not only block crucial freight movement across the country but make the life of Dartford resident a misery due to the gridlock . this project could start very quickly , with the planning process already undertake and a delivery team already in place . in short order , it would create job across the local area and help we to unlock the large bottleneck in the UK . I look forward to work with the Chancellor and her colleague across Government to secure the necessary finance to get this project start . Dartford be lucky to have a district general hospital at Dare nt Valley , where the staff work with dedication every day to support our local population . however , after 14 year of conservative government , waiting list be far too high and the accident and emergency unit lack the capacity to see people quickly . the late figure indicate that more than 26 , 000 resident be await treatment , with more than a third waiting long than 18 week . the Chancellor ' s announcement of £ 25 billion over two year for the NHS , to cut waiting time through extra elective appointment and additional capacity , should help to bring down these waiting list . the recent Darzi report on the NHS highlight the need to be far more creative in how we keep people healthy over the long term by build prevention into the system . I hope that Ministers will recognise the opportunity for people to get involve in community activity that help they to lead more active , healthy life , as emphasise in this Budget . there be more work to do on tackle health inequality , as these opportunity be not evenly spread across the country . on the subject of prevention , I particularly welcome the proposal to review the sugar tax , and to consider its extension to milk - base drink . I would like to see this consideration extend to other product , include food that be high in salt , fat and sugar . an obese nation can not be a healthy nation . I finish by touch on an area of personal importance to I . six year ago , my mother be diagnose with dementia after her memory begin to fail . I be proud that , thank to the NHS , she have receive high - quality care and continue to lead a high quality of life . as a former local government cabinet member for health , work across NHS and council boundary , I know that be very often not the case . we can make life well for those who , like my mother , be diagnose with dementia by ensure early and accurate diagnosis , so the condition can be well manage , with the right treatment , and those who have be diagnose and their family can prepare for the care they need . I hope Ministers will use the extra investment to look at how we can make that happen within the NHS . Dartford resident will welcome two other set of critical measure in the Chancellor ' s speech . like colleague from across the House , I know from my many conversation with parent of child with special educational need how inadequate and break the provision be , across the UK and in Kent . on top of the significant increase for school and further education , the new £ 1 billion announce yesterday will add resource to the review of SEND announce by the Secretary of State for Education . I also welcome the step the Chancellor have take to tackle crime and to make people feel safe on our street . across the country , our sense of security have be erode , with level of antisocial behaviour and shoplifting that be far too high . this Budget will put we on the road to deliver our manifesto pledge to boost visible neighbourhood policing , with 13 , 000 more neighbourhood officer and police community support officer . as other hon . member have say , for too long we have tolerate high level of shoplift in our town centre . thank to the effective immunity for low - value shoplifting introduce by the previous Government , retailer and staff live in fear of the individual and organise gang that target they . the additional funding to tackle that and provide more training to our police officer and retailer will help stop shoplift in its track . it be clear that the problem we have inherit from the previous Government be substantial , but the Budget have lay the foundation for we to begin to tackle they . step to boost public investment , cut NHS waiting list and fix our school will be warmly welcome by Dartford resident , and show that the new Labour Government be on the path to deliver the change our country vote for . it have be a pleasure to listen to so many excellent maiden speech this afternoon from new colleague on the Government Benches . I be look forward to hear the remainder of the maiden speech to be make by our fabulous new intake to this Parliament . this Budget be about fix the foundation , and we should take a moment to think about that word " foundation " . it be not about fix the country or the economy , but fix the foundation , so what underpin our country be break . in Leeds , prior to 2010 , there be one food bank and no food pantry in a city of 800 , 000 people . in my constituency , which be one of eight constituency in the city , our food bank and food pantry be now in double figure . that represent an economic failure that we will fix . I hope that by the end of this Parliament , we will be close food bank and food pantry because people will no long need they , and we will not be have to open new one . there be nothing more foundational to this country than the national health service . I thank the Chancellor — my neighbour — for her continue focus on the NHS , a service that mean so much to everyone in this country . the £ 1 billion capital investment to address the backlog of repair and upgrade to outdated NHS infrastructure be a crucial step forward . I also want to acknowledge the £ 1 . 5 billion in capital funding that will be focus on increase capacity in our health service , through new hospital , surgical hub , diagnostic test and diagnostic centre . I be particularly grateful to hear confirmation that the Health Secretary will be provide further detail of the new hospital programme in the new year . with that in mind , I would like to make a strong case for the prioritisation of the Leeds teaching Hospitals NHS Trust ' s hospital of the future project . leed be home to one of the large and busy acute trust in the country , treat more than 1 . 6 million patient each year . the trust include one of the large centre for child and young people in the country , which care for over 250 , 000 child annually and support the birth of more than 8 , 000 baby . despite the progress make by the trust , it face significant operational challenge because of outdated infrastructure . some part of the Leeds General Infirmary in my constituency date back to the victorian era . maintenance of such an old estate be an enormous financial strain , with backlog maintenance cost now exceed £ 630 million . the previous Government ' s delay in the new hospital programme have already add an extra £ 300 million in cost to the trust . these challenge be not just financial ; they directly impact our ability to deliver care to the people of Leeds . I have be to the Portland building and see that three floor be shut . I know that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have also visit the site . what be go on be not acceptable . the hospital of the future project will create the Leeds innovation village , deliver £ 13 billion in economic benefit and create more than 4 , 000 job — deliver part of the vision that Lord Darzi have . for every £ 1 invest , there will be a return of £ 12 in public benefit — both to the NHS and the taxpayer . that be real efficiency and real productivity in public service . leed be ready to deliver . the trust have already secure outline business case approval and planning consent , and have complete significant enable work . the new hospital will be a net zero carbon building , design to meet the high standard of sustainability and digital innovation . this will not only improve the quality of care , but set a national benchmark for environmentally friendly and efficient healthcare infrastructure . I urge my constituency neighbour , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , and the Health and Social Care Secretary to ensure that the Leeds hospital of the future project be give the priority that it deserve in the upcoming review of the new hospital programme . leed be ready to go . we have the approval , the plan and the commitment . we just need the green light to get on with it . my constituency be a significant cultural centre . early this year , under the previous Government , Michael Gove commit £ 5 million to the National Poetry Centre , but , unfortunately , it be £ 5 million that he do not have . the centre will be site by the University of Leeds in my constituency . yesterday , we receive the news that the £ 5 million of funding be under review , subject to consultation . I hope the Chancellor , or a Treasury Minister — I see that there be a couple on the Front Bench — will meet I and the poet laureate , who have make this centre his passion project , to ensure that this centre add to our national cultural life . the British Library in the North be situate in my neighbouring constituency of Leeds South , just a few hundred yard from my own constituency , and it receive very similar news . I hope that we can meet the relevant Ministers in both the Treasury and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to ensure that these project do not flounder under the false promise of the previous Government . like many other colleague , I be also pleased about the funding commitment for special educational need . I meet so many parent who can not even find a place in an appropriate school for their SEN child . some have to travel many mile to be able to get the education that they deserve . the £ 1 billion funding promise yesterday , which be 6 % above inflation , will hopefully provide a new school , or school , in Leeds for SEN child , with new teacher and I will no long have to knock on door and meet parent say , " my child be not go to school , because there be not an appropriate place in our city " . finally , let I turn to devolution . I be sure that you will agree , Madam Deputy Speaker , that devolution have be a success in West Yorkshire . we have see our bus fare cap at £ 2 , and I know that the mayor be commit to keep that go . we have also have a huge increase in lifelong learning and the skill agenda . none the less , Leeds be still the large city in Europe without mass transit . it be great to hear the Chancellor recommit to that mass transit yesterday , and that West Yorkshire will receive part of the integrate settlement to deliver that . we have only have a mayor in West Yorkshire since 2021 , but I understand from a letter that she have receive that West Yorkshire will be include in the integrate settlement in 2026 , two year ahead of schedule if we look at previous integrate settlement that have be announce and the length of time that those authority have have a mayor . that show the exemplary leadership that we have in West Yorkshire at parliamentary level , at local council level and , most of all , at mayoral level with Tracy Brabin . West Yorkshire be ready to deliver in transport , in health , in education and in all area . I know that my colleague on the Treasury Bench will be support we , and I shall be support this Budget . I congratulate all my colleague who have make brilliant maiden speech today . as always , I be take aback by the range of experience and expertise in this House . I have plan to be radical and speak very briefly about a few matter that be particular to the north - west , but before I do so , I have to pick up on some issue raise by Conservative Members . first , the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) make a seemingly unequivocal statement that business face increase in payroll have only two choice open to they : to reduce their workforce or increase price . that be patently untrue . business increase payroll all the time for perfectly good business reason . we can not be so simplistic in our analysis . far more important for business be have the right infrastructure , and a skilled workforce who be able to get good healthcare and support — all thing that the Budget will provide . another Conservative Member , who would not take an intervention , draw the tired analogy between household budget and national budget . they be not the same . it be that sort of rubbish that get we in this mess in the first place . finally , there be several reference to short - term growth forecast . conservative Members be either unaware of or wilfully ignore the fact that there be a lag between good infrastructure investment and meaningful , sustained growth . the decision that we be take now be long - term decision — the sort of decision that previous government duck . these decision will deliver sustained growth in four , five , six or seven year , which will make a real , sustained difference to the country — not short - term , sugar - rush growth for political gain . let I focus now on the north - west . like much of the country outside the home county , the north - west be badly let down by the cut and false promise of the previous Government , so I be particularly pleased that the Budget will reverse that trend and start the process of rebuild our infrastructure and public service . I be particularly pleased to see the very significant commitment to northern rail infrastructure . with the commitment to fund a trans - Pennine route upgrade , our city and town across the north will be well connect , with more frequent and fast train . I also welcome the recognition of the importance of local connectivity , with the commitment of £ 650 million specifically to fund local transport link outside the key city region . in that context , I look forward to continue to make the case for a commuter rail link from Rossendale to Manchester . I be also delighted to see our Government ' s commitment to properly fund local growth deal and town fund , with both Darwen and Rawtenstall set to benefit from £ 20 million over 10 year . I will be excited to work with local leader to develop innovative implementation plan . I look forward to the development of ambitious regional growth and investment plan that will unlock the true potential of our area . another hugely important aspect of the Budget be the move towards integrate settlement for mayoral combine authority . that will truly move decision make away from the centre , end the command - and - control mindset , and put power in the hand of local leader and community , who know our area so much well than official in Whitehall . that approach have the potential to bring transformational change to our region and deliver both great value for money and well outcome for our resident . while Lancashire be not currently in a position to receive that sort of settlement , the Budget should be a signal to council leader and other key stakeholder in the county of the huge opportunity for Lancashire if we can all work together to get a devolution structure in place . I look forward to continue to work with the Government and local leader to grasp that opportunity and put Lancashire back in the fast lane . finally , with the average income in Rossendale and Darwen much low than the standard throughout the UK , and even in the rest of the north - west , I wholeheartedly welcome the rise in the national living wage that the Chancellor introduce . it will mean a £ 1 , 400 pay rise for many of my constituent — a rise that can make a truly significant difference to people ' s day - to - day life . take together , I be delighted to see how the measure in the Budget start the process of real and sustained change for the north - west , but I be very much aware that it be simply the start of the process . I look forward to future Budgets . it be Halloween this evening , so I think that I would come as the scary thing that I could think of — I be wear a blue tie . more seriously , thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in this important debate . I also thank the Chancellor and the Treasury team , include the Exchequer Secretary , who be here today , for the incredible amount of hard work they put into the Budget . as a former councillor who serve on a council that be Labour - control for nine of the 14 year of Conservative Government - impose austerity , I know of the huge challenge involve in put forward a progress budget , a forward - think budget and a budget that give hope , at the same time as deal with a gape black hole in finance . however , as I often pay tribute to Harlow council ' s finance lead , former councillor Mike Danvers , for balance the book as well as protect service and staff during those difficult time — something that the conservative administration that follow be unable to do — I congratulate the Chancellor and her team on perform a miracle , frankly , with the Budget they have present to the House . the Labour Government be elect on a manifesto that put economic growth and stability at its heart , recognise that anything else would continue the reckless legacy of the previous Government , and this Budget do just that . we be elect as a Government to make tough decision and we have show already that we will not shy away from those tough decision . we be also elect on a manifesto that focus on fix the foundation of our NHS , and I be pleased that we have a Budget that will allow my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to do just that . this Government be provide an additional £ 22 . 6 billion of resource to the NHS , deliver 40 , 000 elective appointment a week to make progress towards a commitment that patient should expect to wait no long than 18 week from referral to consultant - lead treatment a reality . the capital investment in public service include £ 1 . 5 billion to deliver capacity for more than 30 , 000 nhs procedure , over 1 . 25 million more diagnostic test and new bed across the NHS . and there be £ 1 billion to reduce the backlog of crucial NHS maintenance , repair and upgrade . the Government be invest £ 1 . 4 billion to help rebuild our school ; £ 1 . 2 billion pound to deliver extra prison space ; half a billion pound to invest in local road and deal with the dread pothole , which we will all be aware of ; and £ 1 billion in new funding for extend the household support fund . however , member will be unsurprise to know that , as the new chair of the all - party parliamentary group for young carer , although the carer ' s allowance be not pay to young carer , I really welcome the fact that the carer ' s allowance weekly earning limit be be raise to improve financial security for carer and support they into work , or to allow they to work more hour if they choose : 16 hour a week , or £ 196 a week — a rise of £ 45 . it be with real delight that I be message by a friend who suffer from cerebral palsy , to talk about the massive difference that will make to his family . he be go to buy I a pint , apparently , but he also point out that the pint will cost less . my hon . friend have give a long list of the achievement of this Budget , but he have neglect to mention that the Labour party have take one penny off a pint of beer . I have cut down on my drinking now , so it do not help I as much as it would have do in the past , but I be delighted that we have do that , and delight with the many achievement that we announce yesterday . however , this be just the start . we know that rebuild our economy , our public service and our country will take time , but I know — this Budget confirm it — that under this Labour Government we have the leadership and the will to make life well for everyone in our society , not just the privileged few . I call the shadow Minister . if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall start by pay tribute to and thank my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor for his service on our Front Bench . I have the pleasure of serve he in government , as parliamentary private Secretary and then as Exchequer Secretary ; we work very closely together . if I may say so , there be very few people who match his ability , but also his decency . I thank he for that . this debate have have a number of excellent contribution . I will come to the maiden speech in a moment . my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , make important point about the pension fund industry and the importance of get it to invest in infrastructure — something that we work on very hard in government . my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) rightly highlight the pandemic and the war in Ukraine , which have undoubtedly have a massive impact on our economy , but we be show the sign of recovery , as he point out . my hon . friend the Member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) rightly focus on the new tax on education , and especially the impact on displace child , which I appreciate . my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) give a great speech , first highlight the importance of pub and the hospitality industry , but then the importance to our economy of enterprise more broadly . as a vet , my hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) make excellent point — as usual — about the importance of farming , and mention in particular the devastating impact of the Budget on family farm . my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) make excellent remark , not least about Margaret Thatcher and , in particular , the importance of private sector investment to our economy . those speech be part of a debate that have include some excellent maiden speech . the hon . member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) will , as an engineer , bring great talent and experience to the House . he be right to highlight the importance of innovation in our economy . I personally appreciate his comment about his predecessor , who work very hard for the people of Worcester , as I be sure will he . the hon . member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) make an excellent speech about her home . she come to this place not just as a local MP but as a strong advocate for worker throughout her constituency , and I wish she well . the hon . member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) represent the home of one of my favourite drink . scottish whisky be one of our great export , and I wish he well in champion that sector as well as his constituent . the hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) paint a wonderful picture of her constituency . her dad clearly make a good decision in raise his family there , and if I may say so , he would be extremely proud of what she have achieve , but I feel that she be only get start . let I turn to today ' s subject . the Government be call it " fix the foundation , " but frankly I think the OBR would call it " break the foundation , " because in just one hour Labour break our economic fundamental . Labour have break trust with the british people , and the spirit of aspiration and opportunity , which it will never understand or accept be the true foundation of growth in our economy . our country wake up this morning to a new but darker dawn , with fear and a feeling of betrayal . People wake up to a number of headline that I be not sure the Chancellor be expect or hope for , include " Halloween horror show , " " £ 40bn tax bombshell for Britain ' s striver , " " thing can only debt well " — which I particularly like — and even the Guardian lament the " Return of tax and spend " under Labour . it be indeed a Budget that have break our economic fundamental . Labour have perform its big u - turn yet and reverse our economic recovery . let we never forget that the Labour Government inherit the fast growth in the G7 , inflation at target , and a deficit that be half what we inherit from Labour . their first act be to spook consumer and business confidence , which fall more sharply than at any time since the pandemic . now we see those bad fear be realise . across almost every conceivable metric , the late figure on our economy make for grim reading , even for Halloween : the high tax burden in history , debt up and rise as a share of gdp in every year of the forecast , and debt interest payment above £ 100 billion in every year of the forecast — the first time ever that that have happen . the OBR say that inflation will be high , interest rate will be high for long , mortgage rate will be revise up . gilt rate be today soar , real household income be decline , and employment will undoubtedly be down , as anybody who have run a business would tell we . and for what ? unbelievably , and perhaps most humiliatingly , growth — the no . 1 pledge and priority for this Chancellor — have be downgrade by the OBR as a result of the Budget . the Government use to talk about pull the growth lever , but they have go and pull we into reverse . it be unbelievable . the Labour Government have also break trust with the british people . they promise that they would not raise national insurance , but the Budget increase it by £ 25 billion . they promise that their plan be fully fund , but the OBR call the Budget the large increase in borrowing as a result of policy in nearly three decade . they promise that they would not fiddle the fiscal rule , but they have do just that to fund their borrowing spree . they promise that they would crowd in private sector investment ; the OBR now say that it be be crowd out by this Budget . they promise to boost business investment ; the OBR say that it will now fall . they promise to cut energy bill by £ 300 ; we question they countless time on that , and the OBR now say that we will experience " high gas and electricity price " . to justify all of this , the Government concoct a fictitious black hole , which the OBR yesterday refuse to endorse . let I quote this to Labour Members , because it be important that we clear this up once and for all : Richard Hughes of the OBR be directly ask this question live on television . he say : " nothing in our review be a legitimisation of that £ 22 billion . " nobody believe it ; nobody be back it up . finally , Labour have break the spirit of aspiration that , as I say , be the true foundation of growth . we on the Conservative Benches recognise that it be the british people and british business who drive growth and prosperity in our country , not the Government , and certainly not this Labour Government . this Budget say to Britain , " if you want to invest — to expand , to take risk , to innovate — and to build a well life for yourself and your child , Labour will not back you ; it will tax you . " far from fix the foundation , this be a Budget of broken promise , a Budget of betrayal , and a Budget that will set we back , push we down and kill aspiration . it be a Budget that the public will never forget and will never forgive . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton South East ( Pat McFadden ) for open today ' s debate , and for so clearly remind we of the state in which the Conservatives leave our country . as many member have rightly make clear today , yesterday ' s Budget make choice about the future of our country . they be not just choice to get through the next few month until the next fiscal event , as we get use to under the last government , but choice — sometimes difficult one — about the long - term future of the UK economy and the public finance . the Chancellor ' s Budget honour our manifesto commitment by restore economic stability , fix the public finance and boost long - term , sustainable investment in our country . the first Budget of this new Government turn the page on the last 14 year of chaos and decline . this Budget be a generational event to fix the foundation , so that we can deliver the change that the people of this country vote for . it begin to address the urgent pressure that our NHS , our school , our police and our border be under . however , this Budget be not just about the come year , nor even the whole of this Parliament ; it be about make the right long - term decision to create opportunity for people throughout the country , put more money in people ' s pocket and begin a decade of national renewal . I thank the Minister for give way ; he be very generous . he have mention choice . could he comment on the fact that the cost of borrowing be soar after this tax - raise Labour Budget of broken promise ? Labour Members have talk about a crashed economy , but now the Government be preside over their own low - growth , slow - growth car crash , and they be live in denial themselves . although we will not comment on market movement , the Chancellor outline yesterday two new robust fiscal rule , which be the bedrock of stability on which this Budget be build . those rule will put the public finance on a sustainable path and prioritise investment to support long - term growth . the current budget be in surplus by £ 9 . 9 billion in 2029 - 30 , with net financial debt fall in 2029 - 30 and with headroom of £ 15 . 7 billion . when we go into the election in July , the first step that we promise to the british people open with these three word : " deliver economic stability " . as the Chancellor confirm yesterday , our first fiscal rule be the stability rule . that mean we will bring the current budget into balance so that day - to - day spending be meet with tax receipt . no more borrowing for day - to - day spending , no more live beyond our mean , and no more papering over the crack . our tough new stability rule mean that the british people , business and the market can all see the fiscal responsibility that will underpin every decision we take in government . the Chancellor be clear that take the tough decision need to deliver stability be not always easy . the previous Government duck the difficult decision . they make promise after promise to the british people that they know they could never afford . our stability rule offer a different approach . meeting it mean we need to raise taxis , but we have be clear that we will protect work people . that be why the Budget do not increase income tax or national insurance contribution that work people see on their payslip . instead , we be balance the book in a fair way . that do not always mean decision be easy — far from it — but it be also right that , before consider any change to taxis , we make sure everyone pay the tax they owe by close the tax gap . that be why , as the Chancellor set out yesterday , we will deliver the most ambitious package to close the tax gap that this country have ever see . alongside a series of policy change set out in the Budget document , by 2029 - 30 HMRC will have recruit 5 , 000 additional compliance officer and fund 1 , 800 additional debt management staff . together , that will mean £ 6 . 5 billion in additional tax revenue to pay for the country ' s priority before we make a single change to a tax rate or threshold . beyond the crucial work to close the tax gap , the Budget confirm that we will implement our manifesto promise , include to abolish the non - dom tax loophole , which the OBR say will raise £ 12 . 7 billion over the forecast period . we will end the vat exemption and business rate relief for private school , which the OBR confirm will raise £ 1 . 8 billion a year by 2029 - 30 . as of today , we have increase the stamp duty land tax surcharge on second home to 5 % , help more than 130 , 000 people to buy their first home or move home over the next five year , while raise £ 310 million a year by 2029 - 30 to support public service . I know hon . member have raise question about some of the other tax change announce in the Budget , and I be glad to have the opportunity to respond . in particular , I would like to address the change we have make to inheritance tax , specifically the reform to agricultural property relief . I realise that people may be concern about the impact on family farm , so I would like to make clear some of the fact about how the reform to this relief will work . the main rate of agricultural property relief on all asset be set at 50 % until 1992 , at which point it be raise to 100 % just before the election that year . let I be clear : these reform still provide a very significant level of relief to protect family farm . the Chancellor confirm yesterday that the first £ 1 million of combined business and agricultural asset will continue to receive 100 % relief in most circumstance . asset above £ 1 million will attract a 50 % relief , equal to the pre - 1992 rate , which mean that inheritance tax will be pay at a rate of 20 % instead of 40 % . our reform , in a tough fiscal context , still leave the relief as be far more generous than it have be in the past . it be important to note that agricultural and business property relief be in addition to the nil rate band and other exemption , such as the transfer between spouse and civil partner , and the rule on gift . indeed , the National Farmers Union director of strategy have highlight that these other feature of the tax system be important . he say just today that APR " be not the be all and end all for pass on farm on death . " indeed , these exemption mean that if someone have no other asset and be pass it on to a direct descendant , a farm or farming business worth up to £ 2 million can be pass on without pay any inheritance tax at all . furthermore , those liable for a charge can in most circumstance pay any liability over 10 annual instalment . let I also be clear about the datum on agricultural property relief . the total value of a farm should not be confuse with the value be pass on at death . multiple family member can own part of a farm . for example , if an individual jointly own a farm worth £ 3 million with their partner , only £ 1 . 5 million be in their estate at death . in 2021 - 22 , the most recent year for which data be available , the median value of asset qualify for APR be £ 486 , 000 . three quarter of estate claim for asset below £ 1 million , and such estate will continue to pay no inheritance tax at all . just 463 claim be for agricultural asset of over £ 1 million , or 27 % of all claim . the large asset , those worth over £ 2 . 5 million , relate to just 7 % of claim for APR . that datum be publish openly on gov . uk for everyone to see , and I encourage people to investigate it . it do seem rather odd to introduce a new tax and then to defend it on the basis that very few people will pay it . why be the Minister so confident that it will yield anything recognisable in term of a contribution to the public finance ? the few landowner who will be catch by this measure will be make other arrangement to ensure that they avoid it , particularly the very large landowner . I thank the hon . gentleman for acknowledge that the impact of these change be limited and target . that be an important point . he lead I on to my concluding point , which be to point out that the decision we have take to retain APR , but to limit its generosity for the top quarter or so of asset , be the right approach to fix the public finance while also protect family farm . I have set out some of the detail of how we be restore stability and responsibility to the public finance and meet our first fiscal rule , the stability rule . as the Chancellor set out yesterday , that rule be accompany by the investment rule , which make sure that debt be fall as a share of the economy . debt be measure as net financial debt — a statistic measure by the Office for National Statistics since 2016 , and forecast since then by the OBR . it recognise that government investment can deliver return for the taxpayer by count not just liability on our balance sheet , but our financial asset too . that new approach provide space to deliver the step change in investment that our country need , within a strong fiscal framework that put public finance on a sustainable path . to drive investment far still , the corporate tax road map , which we publish yesterday , commit we to provide the good environment for business through a predictable , stable , tax system . it cap the headline rate of corporation tax at 25 % — the low in the G7 . it maintain our world - lead capital allowance system , include permanent full expensing and a £ 1 million annual investment allowance . it maintain our generous R & D relief so that the most innovative company can invest in the long - term future of our country . before I conclude my remark , let I thank all hon . member for their contribution today . it be a pleasure still to be hear maiden speech so far into this Parliament . I find the speech from my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) truly uplifting as he speak about what he draw from the past of his constituency , the promise of the future and , most importantly , the people who he represent and the inspiration they give he . I thank he for bring some of that uplifting inspiration to the Chamber . I thoroughly enjoy the maiden speech by my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) , and everyone in this Chamber will immediately have feel the connection that she have to her constituency and the people she represent . have formerly be the Deputy Mayor for Housing in London , I find her emphasis on the history and future of affordable housing particularly close to my heart . my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) speak passionately about his constituency , and perfectly articulate the strength of our Union in the UK , balance with the strength of our national identity in Scotland , England , Wales and Northern Ireland . I think he encapsulate that perfectly in his speech , and I will be look at Hansard to remember his phrasing . the maiden speech from my hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) touch we all as she speak about her late father , who I be sure would be incredibly proud of what she have achieve . I thank she for share that close personal story with we today . we also hear from the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) whose maiden speech I believe I hear last time I be at the Dispatch Box . be he try to claim that the change in fiscal rule be his campaign win during his speech ? I be pretty sure it be the Chancellor of the Exchequer who come up with the idea , but I thank he for his contribution none the less , and I look forward to see he on the Treasury Select Committee . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for acknowledge the importance of work with mayor across the country , include the excellent Mayor of West Yorkshire . let I briefly address two point make by Opposition Members , include the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) who speak about a pension review . it be an excellent idea to have a pension review , so I be glad that the Chancellor announce in August a landmark pension review , which be look at how to boost investment and to increase pension pot . it will set out how billion of pound of investment could be unlocked from define contribution pension scheme and how pension pot in such scheme could be boost by up to £ 11 , 000 . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will look at that review , and I would welcome discuss it with he in due course . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) speak about the Scotch whisky industry . I understand that it may not have welcome everything in the Budget , to put it mildly , but I want to be clear that we feel that the overall package on alcohol balance the commercial pressure on the alcohol industry with the need to raise revenue . of course , 90 % of whisky be export so no duty be due on that . we have also look to support the Scotch whisky industry by reduce fee for geographical verification — specific support that I hope will help the industry in the year ahead . today ' s debate have bring to the surface the stark difference between this side of the Chamber and the other . the Conservatives have make it clear , yet again , that they be unable to take responsibility for the state of the country as they leave it . in contrast , Labour ' s first Budget make it clear that , above all else , we be take the difficult and responsible decision to fix the mess they make . we know there be no shortcuts . we be realistic about that , but our Budget be the one our country need . it be a Budget to restore economic stability while protect work people , to fix the foundation and fix the NHS , to invest in the future and to rebuild Britain . I commend it to the House . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) debate to be resume on Monday 4 November . LGBT Veterans Independent Review Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) I greatly appreciate this opportunity to engage in a significant debate about the implementation of the LGBT veteran independent review . the review not only acknowledge the historical injustice face by our LGBT veteran , but also bring to light the ongoing barrier , insecurity and inequality they experience , underscore the urgent need for reform , support and compensation . there have be plenty of interest in the debate and I be pleased to see the Lord Commissioner of his Majesty ' s Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) , and my hon . friend the Members for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) , for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) , for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) and for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) , and other in their place . I start by congratulate the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) on his appointment to ministerial office . we be indeed fortunate to have someone of his experience and dedication lead the way in advocate for all veteran and their family . his role be pivotal , and his leadership will undoubtedly influence the life of countless veteran for the well . I thank he . at this time of year , we come together to honour the profound sacrifice make in time of conflict and to remember those who give their life so we could live our in peace . it be right to have this debate about those veteran that government have let down in the past , not because , as some would assert , talk about diversity , inclusivity and live experience make our armed force weak , but because it make they strong . the gay ban , which be active from 1967 to 2000 , be an abhorrent period of our history . for over three decade , discriminatory practice and policy exclude LGBT individual . those policy create a culture of fear and discrimination , in which people be compel to hide and deny who they be or risk lose everything . the treatment in that way of people who be actively serve our country , often put themselves in harm ' s way , be a shameful chapter in our history . it undermine the value that we hold so close of respect , honour , duty , freedom and inclusion . especially as a gay man , to whom this period feel somewhat alien consider the freedom we enjoy today , I find it sicken to reflect on that legacy . we must ensure that it never happen again . I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate . as he have rightly mention , although the damage of the ban on LGBT personnel serve from 1967 to 2000 and their abhorrent treatment can not be undo , the restorative measure contain in the independent review remain hugely important . do he agree that it be incredibly important , to ensure justice , that step be take to create great awareness of the measure , which should be implement forthwith ? my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee — it be good to see he in his place — be completely right about the recommendation make as part of the review . I will come on to that point shortly . I pay tribute to fight with Pride , an LGBT veteran charity , for the amazing work they do in advocate and support the health and wellbeing of LGBT veteran , service personnel and their family . I have meet Craig Jones and Carl Austin - Behan , whose strength and work in this area have be invaluable to many . they make the important point , more eloquently than I , that this be about security . it be about the historic injustice of life ruin by prison sentence , criminal record and be label as sex offender , and the shame that bring . indeed , Craig highlight two particular case to I . the first be of " Steven " , a man imprison for his sexuality during the 1980 while serve in Germany . the second be " David " , a Gulf war veteran imprison and register as a sex offender in the mid ' 90 , just month before I be bear . this stuff be not ancient history . Lord Etherton ' s review make stark the terrible experience that so many LGBTQ veteran have to endure . his report bear out the painful reality of be forcibly remove from the armed force , the harassment these people face and the acute loss that such discrimination lead to . as one veteran say , particularly poignantly , " my ejection from the army make I homeless . my mother disown I for ' bring shame to the family ' and I end up live in a car with an unhealthy relationship with alcohol until I get myself back together . it take year . " that summarise the deep emotional scar that have be leave by a system that fail in its duty to protect those who serve . my own constituent " Steven " — I would not be raise this issue without his lobbying throughout the campaign and since I become an MP — be not a gay man but be dismiss base on suspicion about his sexuality . he be leave with a life in tatter , live in shame and anguish for year and his relationship with his family be break because of the decision that be take about he . the review ' s finding be both alarming and revealing , highlight that even after the repeal of the ban LGBT veteran continue to face both discrimination and stigma — and many still face significant barrier in access the full range of benefit and service they deserve , underscore how unwelcoming the culture can be for LGBT service member . it be unacceptable . it be not what we want for Britain and it can not be what the armed force be about . I know that the Minister agree . it be 30 year since I begin to get involve in campaign on LGBT issue , so this be not as ancient history for I as it be for my hon . friend as he be young than I — I get that in before he do . I be speak to a veteran last night . my hon . friend have mention how this be still affect people , and the world have change significantly from when I start campaign , when people be still be criminalise and convict . but this be still a live issue for many people and there be concern among campaigner that many veteran be now get old and time be run out for they to be able to resolve this . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention and be grateful for his experience . it come as a bit of a reality check that , especially as gay man , we stand on the shoulder of giant in this space . the people who have come before we have live much more difficult life and face much more discrimination than we do , so the duty be on we to raise these point . the report point out several aspect of the situation , point out in particular the mental health difficulty face by LGBT veteran against the special nature of the experience and trauma they be expose to . they report high rate of suicide , homelessness and mental health issue that include , but be not limit to , symptom of post - traumatic stress disorder and depression . that be why a focus on target service be important to adjust to their need . access to healthcare and support service be an additional concern raise by the review . many LGBT veteran report difficulty in navigate the support system , and too often feel that their identity and experience be not understand or respect , even in the present day . for these veteran , the lack of sensitivity and awareness in the system be a significant obstacle to receive the care and support they deserve . it be essential that our system cultivate an environment of understanding and respect go forward — one that acknowledge the distinct experience of LGBT veteran within the wide veteran support network . the creation of dedicated support scheme tailor to the need of LGBT veteran be another critical recommendation . these programme should include peer - to - peer support , mental health resource and other service that acknowledge and validate the unique experience of LGBT veteran . peer support in particular can be an invaluable resource , offer veteran a safe space to share their experience , build connection and receive encouragement from other who understand their journey . increase outreach effort be also essential to ensure that LGBT veteran be aware of the service available to they . for too long , many of those veteran have feel marginalise and disconnect from the resource intend to support they . we have to link those people up . targeted communication strategy be need to engage this community effectively , ensure that they know their right and the resource at their disposal . by proactively reach out to LGBT veteran , we can foster a sense of belong to ensure that they receive the support that they need . financial redress stand out as a key recommendation in Lord Etherton ' s review , underscore the need to compensate those affect by these historic wrong . although the previous Government offer a formal apology and take meaningful step to implement many of the review ' s recommendation , the allocate £ 50 million compensation scheme fund fall short , inadequately compensate the estimate 4 , 000 LGBT veteran and those affect by discriminatory practice . this amount be insufficient to address the depth of the harm inflict or the number of people whose life have be trash in many case . we must advocate for a more substantial commitment to financial redress — one that reflect the true scale of injustice endure by these individual , and that seek to make amend in a meaningful way . I know the Minister be genuinely alive to this ; he be listen , and he and the Defence Secretary understand the plight of this community . I thank he for his continue work in this area to support our veteran , especially as a man of service himself . the independent LGBT veteran review provide a comprehensive road map to address the inequality face by LGBT veteran . by recognise the ongoing challenge , we can take decisive step to implement the report ' s recommendation . we can work towards create a military and veteran support system that truly honour the service of all individual , regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity . this commitment to inclusivity and justice be not only a moral imperative , but a testament to the value we strive to uphold as a nation — value that I know the Minister and the Government agree with . let we take this opportunity to ensure that the sacrifice of all our veteran be acknowledge and respect . let we all work together to build a future in which every service member be afford the dignity and support they deserve , free from the shadow of discrimination . this be our chance to demonstrate our commitment to justice , to extend a hand to those we have wrong — include the review of financial redress — and to create a legacy of equality and respect within our armed force today and for the future . I congratulate the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) on secure this debate — an excellent move . I also thank the Minister and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak , follow a somewhat short - notice request . I be confident that the House will come together today to recognise the service of many of our armed force who be shockingly discriminate against and dismiss for nothing more than be who they be . the Liberal Democrat party constitution include the belief that everyone should be free from poverty , ignorance and conformity . it be in that spirit that we on the liberal Democrat Benches add our support to the recommendation of the Etherton review . I also add our support and thank to the work of the organisation already list that campaign for the right of these people . five minute from my house be the RAF cadet base , which I see on the way to the Army Cadet Force where I be an adult instructor . I confess that in come into the Chamber and thank the Minister , I be not sure whether I should be salute or bow — I be only a sergeant ! what I want to say be that my constituent Mark Shepherd use to be a member of the RAF cadet in Taunton in my constituency and later go on to pursue the career he want as a technician . Mark go on to see active service on the frontline with Tornados in the second Kuwait war and in Kosovo . but he be then question about his sexuality and present with the option of either leave immediately — immediate dismissal , from which he would have lose £ 6 , 000 , a considerable sum of money for a young man at that stage in life — or the premature retirement route , which he have to take . that mean he have to stay in the service much long in very difficult circumstance with a cloud hang over he , when really all that should have hang over he be our nation ' s gratitude for serve our country on the frontline and put his life on the line . I be delighted that this issue have come to the fore . I genuinely congratulate the hon . member for Burnley on bring it forward . I be absolutely delighted that in a few week in Taunton I will be present Mark with his RAF certificate to recognise the injustice that be do to he . it be my absolute privilege to have the opportunity to do that , and to explain and pay tribute to his service in this debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) for secure this very welcome debate , and the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) for the collegiate and sympathetic way he have engage with I and other colleague across the House over recent week . I represent a constituency with a significant number of LGBT veteran , some of whom I have have the huge honour of meeting in recent week . I have also be fortunate enough to work with fight with Pride , the same organisation my hon . friend the Member for Burnley refer to early , and I be pleased to say that they join we in the Public Gallery today . let I be clear about the injustice that have be suffer here . as the Etherton review set out , for over four decade , considerable time , resource and effort be put into hunt down people who be suspect of be gay in the armed force . that lead , among other thing , to arrest , interrogation , demean physical inspection and medical treatment , court martial , imprisonment and be dismiss in disgrace . as we have hear , this leave many LGBT veteran , often at a young age , with criminal record , and no job , income or family support . in the short time I have , I just want to highlight one case , a constituent of mine who I meet last week . Steve join the RAF in 1971 at the age of 16 . he work on Vulcan Bombers at RAF Waddington , serve three tour of the Falklands , and be station in West Germany . he have an impeccable service record . in 1985 , he be investigate by the RAF over a relationship with a male officer . he make the fatal mistake of tell the truth and be sentence to six month in jail . he lose his rank , all his financial benefit , his family and the career he love . when he be release he be 28 year old , homeless and have nowhere to turn . as I say , I meet Steve . he be a man of huge honour and courage , but these be the word he say to I : " I feel wash in shame . my career be shatter . I have a criminal record . I have no pension and have to live hand to mouth for the rest of life survive on benefit . " I raise Steve ' s case not because it be unique . in fact , as we have hear today , it be not even an outlier . it be sadly typical of the story of too many LGBT veteran : loss of earning , loss of dignity and loss of purpose not over the short term , but over a lifetime . that be why I gently ask the Minister , who have be incredibly sympathetic — and while I recognise the financial situation under which the Government operate — whether cap payment at an average of around £ 12 , 500 per person can really be appropriate for the level of injustice suffer by Steve and so many other LGBT veteran ? finally , the Defence Secretary , for whom I have enormous respect , say when the Etherton report be publish : " this be unfinished business for Labour . " — [ Official Report , 13 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 899 . ] I agree , and I know that the Veterans Minister will want to complete that work and finally deliver the justice for which LGBT veteran have be wait far too long . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) for secure this debate . he be prove himself to be a powerful advocate for his constituency . may I also welcome my hon . and gallant Friend the Minister to his place , and thank he for all the work he do ? he be a credit to the Government . finally , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your indulgence in allow I to speak this afternoon . the very fact that we have to hold this debate be a reminder that there be once a time when a person ' s ability to serve be question because of the person they love . discrimination against any LGBT person be of course appalling , but it take a special kind of cynicism and bigotry to punish , denigrate and demean volunteer servicemen and woman — soldier who serve willingly , fight beside their peer willingly , and in some case die or be injure in the line of duty — because of their sexuality . there be never any excuse for the law be what they be . there be no justification on account of ability in combat , no rationale base on individual discipline , and no standard that those serviceman and woman could not and do not reach . the law exist simply because of a fear of difference , and an intolerance of LGBT people . it be inexcusable . it be worth reflect on the sad truth that there use to be consensus about those law . shamefully , in 1996 — quite recently — a cross - party Select Committee reject call for the removal of the ban , but it be important to note that 30 year on , there be a new consensus . before , brave individual such as naval officer Duncan Lustig - Prean , RAF sergeant Graeme Grady , RAF nurse Jeanette Smith and Navy weapon engineer John Beckett have to stand alone , but now this place be unite in condemnation of that policy and — alongside the phenomenal charity that have be reference , such as fight with Pride — support the thousand of LGBT soldier , sailor and airmen in our armed force . I be pleased to say that a member of my new team here in Parliament be an Army reservist and have see in his own military career an improvement in attitude towards himself and other LGBT + colleague . it be a journey , but it be worth acknowledge that thing be improve . instead of be see as a threat and a source of disruption , difference be see as an advantage . celebrate difference and diversity of thought , avoid group - think and foster a " think soldier " environment be part of a wide conceptual component that give our military an edge . it be not enough simply to say that we tolerate LGBT people in our military or our society . we value their unique contribution to our force . however , even though we be far beyond the ban of the ' 90 , we need to support those whom we let down . I be worried , as other hon . member be , that a cap be place on the compensation scheme for the 4 , 000 veteran that lose their career because of institutional bigotry by the british state . I agree with my hon . friend : how can £ 12 , 400 be deem sufficient compensation for someone ' s own chaplain initiate an investigation and subsequent interrogation of they by the Special Investigation Branch ? the british state treat many thousand of people with contempt in exchange for their willingness to serve . it expose they to state - sanction , institutionalised homophobia and to discharge , leave they isolated from their friend and family . I be glad that we be build a new consensus , but let we go a step far and make sure that those 4 , 000 brave , selfless servicemen and woman get the compensation and redress that they deserve . and they be only the one we know about . how many more manage by hide their true self ? how many more deny their true self to themselves ? we must do right by these people . finally , as we approach Remembrance Day , I hope that we can all add to our reflection a moment for LGBT veteran specifically . I will be think of Edward Brittain . Edward be bear in Macclesfield , my constituency . at 21 , as a temporary lieutenant in the Sherwood Foresters , Edward fight in the battle of the Somme . he be injure twice , shoot in the arm and then in the right thigh on 1 June 1916 . his gallantry win he the Military Cross , just as the Minister ' s do . Edward ' s citation be precise and understate : " for conspicuous gallantry and leadership during an attack . he be severely wound , but continue to lead his man with great bravery and coolness until a second wound disable he . " on return to the front , he be tip off by his command officer that he would face a court martial when he come out of the line , as Army censor have read in his personal correspondence that he have have an intimate relationship with a man in his company . on 15 June 1918 , as Edward lead his company on a counter - attack on the Asagio plateau to recapture a trench and stop an enemy advance , he be shoot and kill by an enemy sniper . he be 22 year old . whether he deliberately put himself in a position to be kill , as his sister and his co believe , be unknowable , but what be knowable be that have Edward come out of the line alive between 15 June 1918 and 12 January 2000 , he would have be court - martialle and shame by the country he have shed blood for . Edward have a Military Cross . he be shoot twice at the Battle of the Somme , but return to the front and lead his man with bravery . however , none of that matter — he would have be consider a disruption to the unit . let I be the first person in this place to thank Captain Edward Brittain MC for his service . he deserve well from his country . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) for initiate this debate . I thank the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) for lend his support , and for his fantastic support for cadet , which be absolutely super . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) for share a harrowing story that be all too familiar across the system . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) for his moving story , which really resonate , give what we be discuss today . early this month , I have the privilege of speak at the LGBTQ + defence award , where I thank former and serve personnel for their tenacity and courage . I mention that anyone can dodge bullet , bomb or artillery fire , but to fight against the tide when everything be bear down on you , and to continue the struggle and fight for justice , be commendable . a wise man once say to I that courage be a decision , not a reaction . those fight for pride , and other who have champion this cause for so long , be truly courageous . indeed , they be the brave of the brave . the abhorrent way in which LGBT service personnel be treat between 1967 and 2000 by the Ministry of Defence be completely unacceptable . the Ministry be on the wrong side of history . its historical policy of prohibit homosexuality in the armed force be simply wrong , which be why the LGBT veteran independent review , conduct by Lord Etherton , have unite this Chamber since its report come out in July last year . this Government support the review in opposition , and we be now support its delivery . I trust that colleague appreciate the importance of this remain a cross - party issue as we address the remain recommendation . I want to personally thank Lord Etherton for all the thoughtful work he have do to address the long - burn injustice , and I be pleased that 33 of his 49 recommendation have be implement . I can confirm that we have already receive 676 application for non - financial restorative measure through the gov . uk website . in practice , this mean that the chief of the Army , the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force have send apology letter directly to the individual affect by these issue . medal and beret that should never have be take away have be reissue , and each of the service have host several presentation ceremony to welcome LGBT veteran back into the service family , where they have always belong . rightly , our focus be now on fully address the 16 outstanding recommendation , include the two that relate to financial redress for those dismiss and discharge as a result of the ban , so I very much welcome this opportunity to hear the view of hon . member . it will help inform the Government ' s work to design an appropriate financial redress scheme that enable application to be consider on a case - by - case basis and timely payment to be make . I can reassure veteran and the whole LGBT community that the need of potential claimant be be carefully consider at each stage , include the need for a fast lane for applicant in certain circumstance , especially those with terminal illness . I be , of course , aware of speculation , and I have hear some figure in relation to the fund . I trust colleague will understand that we continue to finalise its modality , and it be too soon for I to comment on exact figure . however , the Government be fully commit to meet our inherit target of open the application window by the end of 2024 , and it remain open for two year . I be not sure whether it be common procedure for someone intervene in their own debate , but I appreciate the Minister ' s time , and I thank he for his comment about the compensation scheme . I know that he be do the work , and that he sincerely understand the scenario for these people . it would be remiss of I not to mention that although " Steven " , my constituent , feel that yesterday ' s Budget be great in lot of way , particularly the provision around infected blood and the Post Office scandal , he want a compensation scheme to deal with this issue in the same way . I hope that the Minister will look at that , make sure that we do not wait another year , for the next Budget , to talk about what we can do financially and sustainably , and recognise the context that " Steven " reference . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . to link that to what my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven say , I be aware of recent speculation about the size of any fund and redress payment . it be not possible to have certainty about the number of applicant at the moment . it be also premature to estimate the size of the payment award , but we be work to make sure that the broad number of individual receive payment . we acknowledge that along with those who be dismiss and discharge , many who be not be also impact by the ban . of the 16 outstanding recommendation , six be for the Ministry of Defence and the Office for Veterans ' Affairs to implement , include the delivery of the memorial at the National Arboretum , which I have the pleasure of visit last week . we be progress those with the excellent staff from fight with Pride , who be here today . ten of the outstanding recommendation be for the national health service , as my hon . friend the Member for Burnley mention , and my team be in touch with Department of Health and Social Care colleague to track that process . my hon . friend highlight harrowing story about the ban , which be tragically all too familiar . the Defence Secretary and I have sit down with a number of veteran affect by the ban , and I have hear about the different and profound way that it have harm people ' s life . that be why I be determined that the Government shall address all the outstanding recommendation . one of the reason why we be in this position , have make so much progress , be that under the last Labour Government , we make a lot of legal change , but we also work to make societal change , along with progressive colleague from other party . there be a lot of hope from the community that , with a new government , we can pick up that baton and make progress again , so I be pleased to hear what the Minister say . do he agree that resolve these issue quickly would send the message to the LGBT community that we be take this seriously , and be keen to get on with make progress on equality again ? I absolutely agree . the quick that we get this do and get due justice deliver , the well . that be absolutely where we want to go . when I join the Royal Marines in 1999 , the shameful ban on homosexuality in the armed force be still in place . last month , the Defence Secretary and I present Etherton ribbon to Emma Riley , Stephen Close and Carl Austin - Behan . the ribbon represent the commitment and sacrifice make in service by LGBT veteran , the suffering cause by the cruel ban , and the strength show by those who stand against it . it be one of numerous step that the Government be take to ensure that the armed force be tolerant and welcome to all . our LGBT + network be help we to improve the experience of service personnel and civilian staff . I urge everyone affect by past failing to register interest in restorative measure by visit the LGBT veteran support page on gov . uk . the Defence Secretary and I will drive hard to get this work do , until every recommendation of Lord Etherton ' s review be implement — to right the wrong of the past and to ensure that every veteran who have help keep Britain secure receive the respect and support they deserve . question put and agree to . House adjourn .