Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Government ' s Five Missions what progress the mission delivery board have make . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s five mission . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s five mission . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s five mission . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s five mission . the Government ' s five mission offer real benefit to people live in every part of the country : high living standard , more energy security , safe street , low waiting list , and a renew confidence that the future will be well for our child . we have already make progress , include launch a national wealth fund , provide an additional £ 22 . 6 billion for the NHS over the next couple of year , launch a new border security command , provide £ 1 . 4 billion more for school rebuilding and remove the de facto ban on onshore wind farm . the Prime Minister will unveil his plan for change later this morning , which set out how we will deliver far on our mission over the next few year , and I be due to give a statement to the House on that matter later this morning . how will the Prime Minister ' s five mission board learn from the clear lack of join - up between the Treasury and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs over the family farm tax and the family business tax to ensure that they do not become five mission silos ? the hon . Lady be right to say that one of the benefit of mission be to work across departmental boundary . that have be try many time and be difficult to do , but I believe that farmer and people in rural area will benefit from great energy security , from low waiting list in the NHS , from rise living standard , and from the other thing that be at the heart of our mission . too many child face barrier to opportunity . their life chance be be hold back by ration access to mental health support and diminish by a system that do not do enough to support those with special educational need and disability . what action can be take on a cross - Government basis to increase the availability of mental health support to cover 100 % of school , so that we can achieve our vital mission to break down barrier to opportunity ? my hon . friend be right to raise this matter . he will be aware that we have announce extra funding for special educational need . that issue be rise up the agenda and be cause a lot of anxiety for parent throughout the country . at the heart of our mission be make sure that a great proportion of young child be ready to start school , because if that be not the case , it can hold back their opportunity for the rest of their life . with GB Energy headquarter in Scotland and the Methil yard in my constituency — a fantastic facility to build the renewable infrastructure we will need — how be my right hon . friend ensure collaboration across Government and with the Scottish Government , to deliver the mission for growth through investment in renewable ? as my hon . Friend say , we have make good progress in set up great British Energy , a publicly own energy company , include announce that its headquarters will be in Aberdeen . this transition to clean power offer huge economic opportunity for the whole UK . I be glad to report to the House that co - operation between the Scottish Government and the UK on this matter have be good , and this be at the heart of our clean energy mission . can the Minister give we some indication on the timeline for GB Energy ? when do he expect it to be up and run at full capacity ? do he think there be any opportunity to incorporate green skill to support new job in area such as North East Lincolnshire , Grimsby and Cleethorpes ? in just five month , the Government have make progress in set up great british Energy . we have announce £ 25 million to establish the company , with a furth £ 100 million of capital funding to spend in the next financial year . we have announce the partnership with the Crown Estate and select the chair , Juergen Maier . as I say a moment ago , we have choose Aberdeen as the location for the headquarters . as for the next step , more information on great British Energy ' s early priority will come in the new year from the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . that will support skill development across the country , include in the Humber , which be at the absolute forefront of the UK ' s net zero ambition and be home , I be pleased to say , to several groundbreake renewable energy project , which we support . a recent report by the Social Mobility Foundation show that on average people from working - class background be pay an incredible £ 6 , 000 less than their privileged peer . do my right hon . friend agree that Labour ' s opportunity mission will be critical to end that damn statistic and finally smash the class ceiling that enable it ? we firmly believe that , whoever someone be and wherever they come from , Britain should be a country where hard work mean they can get on in life , and that their circumstance of birth should never dictate their future . the reality for too many child in Britain today be that that can be the case — that opportunity can be limit — and our opportunity mission be aim at break that link . we will roll out government - fund childcare to support improve access , deliver on the fund hour expansion and on the Government ' s manifesto commitment to create 3 , 000 more school - base nursery , increase the availability of childcare place where they be need most . as I say , we want to get a great proportion of child ready to start school when they walk into primary school for the first time . Stepping Hill hospital in Hazel Grove be report to have a repair backlog of £ 130 million . the people on waiting list , which have be elongate by this repair backlog , be police officer , teacher and nurse , thereby make it more difficult for the Government to deliver on any of their other mission . can the right hon . Gentleman assure the House that due weight be be give to reduce NHS waiting list , so that all the other mission can be achieve ? we announce an extra £ 22 billion for the NHS over the next couple of year in the recent Budget . I can certainly assure the hon . Lady that reduce wait time be at the heart of our mission , because current waiting time be bad for people ' s health and bad for our economy . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to face the right hon . gentleman across the Dispatch Box for what I believe be the first time . I be pleased to see three member of the Cabinet on the Front Bench — it be quite right that the Cabinet Office should be so well reflect . the day after he enter Downing Street , the Prime Minister pledge to personally chair each mission delivery board to drive through change . we now hear that he be not chair each mission delivery board . why have the Prime Minister break his pledge ? let I begin by welcome the hon . gentleman to his position ; I look forward to our exchange . he be also the shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , so I hope his party leader will be give he a Christmas bonus for productivity and hard work — he will certainly deserve it . the Prime Minister be very engaged in the delivery of these mission , and meet for mission stocktake regularly with the Secretaries of State in charge . that be the benefit of have this kind of programme : the Prime Minister can personally hold Secretaries of State to account and ensure they be all focused on delivery of the Government ' s priority . the right hon . Gentleman be right : as the holder of two shadow portfolio , I get double the money . [ laughter . ] I be sorry not to hear an explanation for why the Prime Minister have go back on his word . there be grow concern that the mission delivery board be not be take seriously . those concern be feel by member of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee yesterday , when the right hon . Gentleman ' s very capable permanent secretary say that " the governance and the wiring of how we do this might not be immediately observable " , which be a masterful piece of civil service phraseology if ever there be one . these board be not Cabinet Sub - Committees , which mean they be not authorise to make policy . the Prime Minister be not there , so his authority be absent . the Government will not reveal who be on they , what they discuss or when they meet . they be start to sound like figment of the Government ' s imagination — a litter of Schr ö dinger ' s cat . will the right hon . Gentleman at least commit to regular publish update on what each of the board be do , who sit on they , what decision they make , what work they be undertake and what achievement they have achieve ? the hon . Gentleman be go to get a publish update in a couple of hour , when he will receive a very full account of what the board have be do , how they have be prioritise their work and what the next step be . he be a former Cabinet Office Minister , so he will know that one of the wonderful thing about the Cabinet Office be that it do a great deal of work under the bonnet — sometimes not in the full gaze of publicity — and that that be the privilege of all of we who have serve in the Cabinet Office . that be true of this work . however , we be publish a very important update later this morning . Trade Barriers with the EU what step his Department be take to help reduce trade barrier with the EU . the Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission meet on 2 October in Brussels and agree to strengthen the relationship between the UK and the EU . Maro š Š ef č ovi č , on behalf of the European Union , and I , on behalf of the UK Government , will now take forward that important work . we be committed to reduce barrier to trade , include negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement to reduce check on food and put food on people ' s table more cheaply . we be very proud that UK agriculture have some of the high animal welfare standard in the world . it be for this reason that the production of foie gra be ban in 2007 , as it be consider to be too cruel . while we be desperate to reduce trade barrier with the EU , be there any step to ban product like foie gra to ensure that all animal product sell in the UK be produce to at least the same animal welfare standard as those in the UK ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise the issue of very high standard of animal welfare in food production . this government will prioritise that in trade policy , unlike the Conservatives who , when they be in government , negotiate free trade agreement that consistently undermine agriculture in the UK . we all support effort to remove unnecessary trade barrier , but we must also be clear with our european partner on what we can not accept . what be the Paymaster General prepare to say be off the table : dynamic alignment , british fishing right , or maybe asylum burden - sharing ? the Labour party manifesto set out our red line in this negotiation . we will not go back to the battle of the past . we will not return to the single market . we will not return to the custom union . we will not return to freedom of movement . what we will do be negotiate with the European Union to make the british people safe and more secure , so we have close law enforcement co - operation . we will negotiate to reduce trade barrier to make the british people more prosperous . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats be glad that the Government have commit to reset our relationship with the EU , and that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary be actively engage to rebuild trust and our relationship with our european neighbour through meeting with the European Commission and the Foreign Affairs Council . establish a UK - EU youth mobility scheme would mirror exist cap arrangement that the UK already have with 13 country , include Australia , New Zealand and Canada . deliver such a scheme would provide a return on investment in the form of soft power that be never seemingly factor into the approach of the previous Conservative Government . will the Minister confirm that he will have discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of a youth mobility scheme between the United Kingdom and the European Union ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the importance of the Foreign Secretary ' s attendance at the Foreign Affairs Council . it be hugely important that we work together with our european partner on security , particularly in the dangerous world environment we find ourselves in at the moment . on youth mobility , we have of course listen to what the EU have to say , but we have no plan for a youth mobility scheme and we will not return to freedom of movement . Public Procurement Reform what step he be take to reform public procurement . what step he be take to reform public procurement . what step he be take to reform public procurement . I spend the last few week meet small and medium - sized enterprise , voluntary and community sector organisation , wide business and contract authority to discuss how we ensure that the approximately £ 300 billion that be spend each year on public sector procurement deliver for our community . with this government , procurement will deliver value for money , well public service and our national mission . the Procurement Act 2023 commence in February 2025 , create a simple , more flexible procurement system under - pin by a new mission - lead national procurement policy statement to ensure that public procurement deliver on the Government ' s mission . small business be a crucial part of the economy in Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch . there be huge opportunity to help they far , and one way of do that be to work across the public sector and with local authority — in my case , North Lanarkshire and East Dunbartonshire council , with contract as big as the redevelopment of Cumbernauld town centre . will the Minister work with local authority and the Scottish Government to help more small business to bid successfully for contract ? it be critical that we open up public procurement to small business . as I have say , £ 300 billion be a huge amount of public money , and the opportunity to ensure that small and medium - sized enterprise have access to that be also critical . as my hon . Friend say , sme be root in our community , and provide local , often good - quality job . we be take action now to crack down on late payment that hit the cash flow of small business . the Chancellor announce recently that company bid for large Government contract would be exclude from the procurement process if they do not pay their own supplier within an average of 45 day . the last Government promise to give more contract through procurement to small business , but fail to do so for 14 year . instead , they choose to use government contracting to support their mate through covid . will the Minister confirm that this Government will use the power of Government spending to contract directly with small business to support local company and economy across the country , in stark contrast to the conservative party ' s enrichment of their mate ? as I have say , we will work hard to ensure that public contract be support small business . I have spend a lot of time talk to they about how we can do that through the new public procurement policy and the measure in the policy statement . this week the Chancellor announce the appointment of a new covid corruption commissioner , who will be take action to recover public money . the resident of Falkirk want a Government who work day in , day out to deliver value for money for the taxpayer . never have that be so true as now , give the break public finance leave by the Tories and 17 year of waste and inaction from the Scottish National party up the road . do the Minister agree that the billion we spend on public procurement must deliver value for the taxpayer , and can she tell I what step the Government be take to ensure that that be the case ? when our public service be face so much strain and desperately need rebuilding , it be critical that we cut waste and deliver value for money . under the last Government the procurement system too often fail to drive that efficiency , as be show by the shocking level of fraud and waste during the pandemic . we will bring new transparency to public sector procurement , along with a relentless focus on fraud . gross spending on public procurement be £ 400 billion last year . what be the Government ' s precise target for deliver great saving from that budget ? that £ 400 billion be an enormous amount of money , and we need to ensure that it be go into growth , deliver for our community and sme , and deliver on our mission . we be determined to act on procurement and reduce inefficiency , and we will provide further information about that in February . we can not take lesson from the conservative party about cut waste inefficiency , give that they oversaw gross mismanagement — Lord Agnew himself refer to " schoolboy error " — in the delivery of procurement for this country . the focus on public procurement will be welcome by sme in the cyber - security sector in my constituency . CyNam have thousand of member , and when I talk to its sme they tell I that there be a real risk of our lose talent in the start - up community to city abroad such as Lisbon and Toronto . can the Minister confirm that the step be take by the Government be good news for sme and Cynam ? as I have say , I firmly believe that we need to support sme , and I should be more than happy to speak to those in the hon . member ' s constituency and discuss the opportunity that be available . there be so much innovation and talent in this country . we need to ensure that public sector money be support our growth mission , and support good business in community such as those in his constituency . I thank the Minister for her answer . I have a very simple question : what step have be take to ensure that we have well procurement measure domestically in the United Kingdom and the devolved nation , particularly Northern Ireland , as oppose to rely on international partner to provide or deliver good ? through our procurement regime , we be determined to support small business , which be often locally rooted . we will continue to do that , while take account of our trade obligation . I call the shadow Minister . I be delighted to meet the Minister across the Dispatch Box . I have also be meet many sme in the aftermath of the Budget . the impact of the Government ' s decision to raise national insurance on many indirect provider of public service , such as GPs and hospice , appear not to have be fully factor into the Government ' s working at the time of the Budget . now that the Government have have over a month to do the figure , what will be the impact of the national insurance job tax on the cost of public procurement , to the near , say , £ 1 billion ? I welcome the hon . member to their place and look forward to meet they across the Dispatch Box . unfortunately , the last Government leave this country in a terrible place , with public service in crisis . I be previously a council leader , and every single day I see the absolute strain on our public service . People be wait up to 12 hour for ambulance , which sometimes do not turn up . we have have to take action to invest in our public service in order to deliver growth . through our procurement regime , we be already take action to support sme , to ensure that money be not lose and to ensure that supplier be pay quickly . I will set out more to the House in February — Order . we have to get through the list . give I a chance to get through it — we be only on question 6 . Genomics database what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology on the potential merit of designate genomic database as critical national infrastructure . Genomics be a great british success story , and our genomic database be vital for world - lead life science and health research . the organisation that have such database have to provide data protection and security training , and have to make sure that researcher can access datum only for approve purpose . the opportunity come with risk , which be why the Government will always try to minimise the risk of biological datum to protect our bio - economy . we be work on this issue across Government Departments and through our national security structure . I take it that genomics database will not be designate as critical national infrastructure , then , which be the question . as the Government seek to reset the relationship with China , will Ministers be mindful of the old maxim that you need a long - handle spoon to sup with the devil , and of the fact that chinese genomics company such as BGI do not behave as normal commercial competitor ? will the Secretary of State ensure that the interest of british genomic be not leave vulnerable as a consequence of any reset relationship ? the right hon . Member ask a very important question about the twin interest of national security and economic growth . in this territory , we work with UK organisation that hold genomic datum to make sure that they have robust data protection system in place , and our security service give they advice on these matter on a regular basis , so that our pursuit of growth do not conflict with our very important national security objective . National Resilience what step he be take to increase national resilience . what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national resilience . the Government ' s first responsibility be to keep the public safe , which be why national resilience be a top priority for we . in July , I announce that I would lead a review of resilience , and work have be progress across Government . we have engage at all level with the public , private and voluntary sector , and this work be oversee by the dedicated resilience sub - committee of the National Security Council , which I chair . it be also closely link to our consideration of the covid inquiry module 1 report , to which the Government will respond next month — within the six - month timeframe set out by the chair of the inquiry . the module 1 report recommend resilience and preparedness , and particularly " bring in external expertise from outside government and the Civil Service to … guard against ' groupthink ' " . how be the Minister plan to bring in that external expertise ? would he consider issue a brochure to british citizen on preparation for crisis , as the Swedish Government have just do ? the hon . member raise an important point . the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) , have do a great deal of work on consult people outside Government — external expert across business , the voluntary sector , local government and so on . it be really important that , as part of this , we hear voice not just from Whitehall but from beyond , too . the module 1 report of the UK covid - 19 inquiry have find that the impact be most acutely feel by the most vulnerable — the elderly , those with pre - exist health condition , people live in overcrowded housing , and those on low income . as the Government undertake their review , can the Minister assure the House that they will work to deliver resilience for everyone , not just some of we ? this be such an important point . if resilience be to mean anything , it have to be for we all , not just for some . my hon . friend be right to say that one of the lesson of past tragedy , whether it be covid - 19 , Grenfell Tower or other , be that it be often the most vulnerable in our society who be hard hit . that be why it be so important that we learn the lesson of the past and have support for the most vulnerable at the heart of our work . the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead , recently meet senior representative from a range of organisation that support people who be disproportionately impact by emergency and crisis to make sure that resilience be , indeed , for all , and not just for some . Cyber - security what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen cyber - security . as I set out in my speech to the NATO cyber - defence conference last week , we be work to strengthen the UK ' s cyber - resilience , but there be , of course , still more to do . in the King ' s Speech , we announce that the Government will bring forward a cyber - security and resilience Bill , which will help to strengthen the UK ' s cyber - defence and our work with industry to help to make the UK a safe place to live and work online . I stress to the House that this be an ongoing effort . it can never be perfect , but we be constantly work to make sure we have the strong cyber - defence possible . the college in Ebbw Vale have a brilliant cyber security course train young people for job in this grow sector . however , the national cyber - security chief say there be a " widen gap " between the UK ' s defence and the threat pose by hostile nation , so can the Minister confirm what be be do to scale up the workforce to defend our crucial infrastructure ? I congratulate the college in Ebbw Vale on its brilliant cyber - security course . my hon . friend be right to point out the threat , which be why I speak at the NATO cyber - defence conference last week . state and non - state actor be constantly probe our defence . it be a constant effort to keep those defence strong , and we be determined to work not only with education but with business and our critical national infrastructure to make sure we be as well protect as we can be against the threat we face . security be no long just about hard military power ; it be also about cyber - security , which be why that have to be a real priority for the Government . Job vacancy : Prime Minister ' s Office what job vacancy in the Prime Minister ' s Office be be advertise . there be currently four vacancy in the Prime Minister ' s office that be be advertise . these role be all advertise across the civil service or externally . the House will also have see that the Prime Minister announce the appointment of Sir Chris Wormald as the new Cabinet Secretary early this week . I be sure the whole House will join I in congratulate he on his appointment . I personally would be delighted to welcome the new Cabinet Secretary to his role . I thank the Minister for her answer , but in her list I do not hear she say whether the Cabinet Office be hire a new Prime Minister ' s envoy to the nation and region , to carry out the vital work that be about to be do by Sue Gray when she decide not to take the job . be the Cabinet Office hire another person to undertake that role ? the hon . Gentleman seem to have a curious interest in job at no . 10 . if he be consider a career change , I would be very happy to have a private word with he . Public Services Reform what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . as a former council leader , I have see at first hand the crisis in public service , with people fall between the crack of system that be under extreme strain . to reform that , we need to get out of whitehall and support worker across the public sector to do thing differently . from intervene early to support family , a White Paper overhaul employment support and an ambitious programme of reform of the NHS , this Government be determined to reform public service to deliver for citizen . under the Conservative party , too much taxpayer ' money be waste on project and scheme that simply do not work . do the Minister agree with I that in order to improve healthcare service , include mental health service , educational opportunity and social service , as well as transport provision and public safety in my constituency of Wolverhampton West , it be vital that the Government continue their test and refine their policy to ensure they be effective , and continue to be effective ? I wholeheartedly agree with that . I hear too often from those on the frontline that they be feed up with policy be make in a closed room in Whitehall , and not with those who have real experience of the frontline . the Budget announce the introduction of a public sector reform and innovation fund to support we to test and learn with place around the UK . we be learn from the good evidence across the public sector . on Monday , I meet representative from all the what work centre across Government , to understand the evidence of what work and how we can scale that to deliver for community around the country . we all remember that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Centre undertake that there would be no additional money go into the NHS without secure reform . that , like so many other broken promise , be drop , and £ 22 billion or £ 25 billion — whatever it be — of funding be announce . then afterwards he repeat the pledge that there would be no extra money without reform . well , the cat be out of the bag . will the Minister give the undertaking today , on behalf of the Government , that never again will we see vast increase in public expenditure without reform of public service , because we need an improvement in productivity , not just additional spending ? I be surprised to hear a member on the Conservative Benches express concern about money that be desperately need go into our NHS , when people be wait for GP appointment and in ambulance . under the conservative party , police officer would spend hour sit with people with mental health concern . be that productivity ? the Secretary of State have set out an incredibly ambitious reform agenda for the NHS , move resource into prevention and take account of the amazing opportunity in digital technology to give people more control over their own health . Labour be the party that back the NHS and fix the mess leave by the previous Government . House of Lords Reform what recent progress his Department have make on reform of the House of Lords . the Government have bring forward the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill as an immediate first step in reform . that will remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . the Bill pass this House unamended and will have its second reading in the other place next week . in addition , I be proud to announce today that I have lay a write ministerial statement that will ensure that political party nominate people for peerage in the other place will now have to publish , alongside the nomination , a 150 word summary as to why they be put that person forward . that be another reform that this Government be proud to announce as part of our wide agenda . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s response , particularly the fact that it will increase transparency for the other place . do he agree that we have a mandate for reform , and while respect the individual , we be absolutely determined as a Government to progress the abolition of the hereditary principle in lawmaking ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it just should not be the case , in a modern legislature , that there be place reserve for people by accident of birth . the Bill have now pass this House unamended . as I have indicate , it will now go before the other place for Second Reading next week . we want to get that Bill on to the statute book as soon as possible . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as I say a few moment ago , last week I address the NATO cyber - defence conference about the increasingly aggressive and reckless behaviour from Russia , in particular in the cyber - realm , include attack on NATO member . I make it clear that no one will intimidate we into weaken our support for Ukraine . I also announce the Laboratory for AI Security Research and a new incident unit to help our ally respond to cyber - attack against they . we promise to make a tangible difference to people ' s life . I will shortly be set out in this House our ambitious plan for change over the next few year , and copy of that plan will be make available to Members in advance of the statement . during the recent debate on the infected blood compensation scheme , the Government make promising indication regard boost engagement with affected group . victim and their family in Mid Sussex and across the country have be wait for decade for answer . it be essential that people begin to receive the compensation that be so long overdue . why do the Government make last - minute change to the accept document for interim compensation claim require from the estate of people who die after receive contaminate blood and blood product ? will the right hon . Gentleman tell I what action be be take to tackle the unacceptable delay ? order . I say gently to the hon . Lady that we be now on topical , which be mean to be short and punchy . today , we seem to have a bit of time , but please try to help each other . let I assure the hon . Lady that my right hon . friend the Paymaster General , who lead on this , be fully aware of the issue she have raise . he be work with the group affect and be determined to ensure that initial payment be out by the end of the year . this government have rightly make tackle child poverty a top priority . of course , this be not a child problem but a society problem , so I welcome the cross - departmental approach that have be take . last week , the " get Britain work " White Paper be publish . do my hon . friend agree that help people , particularly parent , into decent , well - pay job be a key part of that agenda ? it be shameful that child poverty increase by 700 , 000 under the last government . tackle child poverty be at the heart of this Government ' s mission . the child poverty taskforce , which I sit on , will publish its strategy in the spring . increase the number of parent who be work , and their earning and hour , play a crucial role and that be why our plan to get Britain work and the Employment Rights Bill be important in tackle the scourge of child poverty . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . be the Cabinet Office ' s propriety and ethic team inform by Downing Street of the former Transport Secretary ' s conviction before she be appoint as a Minister of the Crown ? the former Transport Secretary have exchange with the Prime Minister last week , which have result in she resign from the post . she set out her reason for her resignation in that letter . we now have a new Transport Secretary , who have already make an excellent start in the job . I thank the right hon . gentleman for restate what be already know . obviously , it be a matter of public interest whether the propriety and ethic team have be inform before the right hon . Lady be make Transport Secretary . I ask he again : will he confirm whether the PET be inform by Downing Street of the former Transport Secretary ' s conviction before she be appoint a Minister of the Crown ? all Cabinet Ministers have an interview and make declaration to the propriety and ethic team before they be appoint to the Government . I be aware of what I tell the propriety and ethic team before my appointment , but I do not look through the declaration from every other Minister . the previous Conservative Government expose themselves to unprecedented level of corruption and cronyism when deliver contract during the pandemic . recent analysis have show that £ 1 in every £ 3 spend go on high - risk contract , worth more than £ 15 billion . what step be the Government take to ensure that they be always make procurement decision that be in the public interest , avoid unmanaged and unmitigated conflict ? what will they do to ensure that taxpayer ' money be always spend wisely ? my hon . friend be right to raise that point . early this week , the Chancellor announce the appointment of Tom Hayhoe as the covid counter - fraud commissioner . the new commissioner will leave no stone unturned to investigate the unacceptable waste and fraud during the pandemic and to make sure that we learn lesson for the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . early this week , I introduce a ten - minute rule Bill to bring in proportional representation for Westminster election and english local election . I be delighted that it pass a Division of the House . it be support by Labour Members , as it reflect Labour party policy on this matter . now that it be the express will of the House that my Bill get a second reading , will the Secretary of State commit to give the Bill Government time so that it can be fully debate ? I hate to do this as we be approach the festive season , but I be afraid that I will have to disappoint the hon . Lady . we have no plan to change the electoral system , and I can not give she the Government time that she require . we owe a great debt of gratitude to our exceptional public servant who have give their life to serve our nation . can the Minister update the House on what progress have be make in establish the Elizabeth Emblem to commemorate former firefighter , police officer and other public servant who have die in public service ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . we must never forget those who have give their life to protect other in the line of duty . last month , the Government announce the first recipient of the Elizabeth Emblem . the next of kin of more than 30 former firefighter , police officer and other public servant who have die in public service receive the award in recognition of their deceased love one . although family will never be able to replace their love one , the Elizabeth Emblem pay tribute to the sacrifice they make , and I know that the whole House will support this award . the family of DS Ross Hunt and PC George Taylor , who be murder in the line of duty in 1976 and 1983 , be recently award the Elizabeth Emblem , follow a campaign by myself and other . but due to administrative error , the police officer do not receive the George Cross . can a Cabinet Minister meet with I to discuss this issue so that their bravery be recognise as well as their death ? I thank the hon . member for raise this matter , and pay tribute to those involve . if she write to we , we will follow this up . due to our dire economic inheritance , it be vital that every penny of public money be spend wisely . in my constituency of Harlow , £ 29 million be spend on Sir Frederick Gibberd College only for it to be deem unsafe and to be pull down . what step will the Government take to ensure that we spend money wisely , that we do not spend unnecessary money on unnecessary consultant , and that we get the good for the people of Harlow ? under the Conservative Government , too much taxpayer ' money be waste on eye - water consultancy contract . we be take step to stop all non - essential Government consultancy spending this year and halve Government spending on consultancy in future year . [ interruption . ] it might be hard for Conservative Members to hear about their record , but it be hard for we to live with it . last week , the Government release their late departmental lobbying transparency datum . the datum be two month late and relate to the last month of the previous Government , namely April to June 2024 . the public will learn who the new Government meet during their first week in power only at the end of December , a full six month after the election , and that be only if the data be release on time . UK lobbying rule have more hole than swiss cheese , so will the Government set a timeline for create a central database of departmental transparency datum , with monthly update , thereby close the litany of loophole in the current lobbying rule ? the Government be commit to transparency around lobbying . that be why we will have regular transparency update . the approach that we take will frankly be in stark contrast with that of the Government who precede we . last week , I listen earnestly to the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster at the cyber - security conference , which be timely , give that my local council be subject to a cyber - attack , possibly by a foreign actor , just in the last four week . what measure have he undertake to improve cyber - security resilience in local council and critical national infrastructure that might impact we in the future ? I be very sorry to hear about the cyber - attack against my hon . friend ' s local authority . such attack can have a serious impact on local resident . as I say in my speech to the NATO cyber - defence conference last week , the Government be determined to strengthen cyber - resilience in the UK . we publish guidance on it and meet with stakeholder . advice be available from the National Cyber Security Centre . in October , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government launch the cyber assessment framework for local government , which be particularly gear at the local authority about which he speak . " what now for our special envoy ? " lament the people of Scotland , now that Sue Gray have tell the Prime Minister what he can do with his job offer . in the spirit of cross - border co - operation , might I suggest that the Minister inform no . 10 that we have know all along that this have be nothing more than an embarrassing fiasco , and a cynical face - save attempt by the Prime Minister , who must think we button up the back ? I think that the hon . Member be go to give I a Christmas greeting , but I be still wait . in the absence of any envoy , he will have to put up with I instead , as the Minister for intergovernmental relation . it be a part of my job that I take very seriously , for perhaps obvious reason . I enjoy my conversation yesterday with the First Minister of Scotland , the First Minister of Wales , and the First Minister and Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland . I will keep have such conversation . in the light of today ' s very important announcement about the mission milestone , could we hear a bit about the important work of the mission board , which have lead we to this point ? I will have more to say on this shortly , but it be important that government set out what they be try to do and on what timescale , particularly when we have an atmosphere in politic — this be the serious point — of a lack of faith among many in the electorate in the ability of government of any stripe to deliver . we take that seriously , and want to do something about it . next Tuesday , the Northern Ireland Assembly be to be invite to agree that the European Parliament should make its law for the next four year in 300 area of law affect Northern Ireland . the Cabinet Office issue an explanatory document that do not set out what be mean to be set out , accord to the Windsor framework . article 18 say that the process would be conduct " strictly in accordance with " the UK unilateral declaration of October 2019 . that declaration require a public consultation . there have be no public consultation . why be that , and why be the matter proceed in the absence of it ? I will of course look at the specific document that the hon . and learn Gentleman refer to . he also refer to the important consent vote take place in the Northern Ireland Assembly next week . this government support the Windsor framework . that be why , when we be in opposition , we vote with the then government to support it . we be commit to implement it in good faith , and that be what this Government will do . public procurement be a vital lever for deliver our growth mission , and growth must be feel by people in every part of our country . what step be the Minister take to ensure that when taxpayer ' money be spend on private contract , the key worker deliver the contract and local community such as mine in Darlington maximise the benefit of that public money ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for the time she spend with I last week set out the opportunity of procurement and the need of her community in Darlington . we have hear from the whole House today how important it be to back small and medium - sized enterprise that have root in community , and we be determined that the new national policy procurement statement will do that . I be delighted to give Christmas greeting to the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , and I be sure that most of we in the House feel a great deal of respect for he . as the Prime Minister know he be appoint a convict fraudster to the Cabinet , be it not incumbent on he to tell the propriety and ethic team ? if I can slip a second question in , Mr Speaker , will the right hon . Gentleman , who be commit to and lead in the Government on transparency and openness , all of which have be promise , undertake — notwithstanding the fact that he have not look at these declaration — to find out and let the House know whether she declare it to the House ? as I say to the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) a few moment ago , all secretary of State give their declaration to the propriety and ethic team upon appointment . the matter be conclude last Friday with the Transport Secretary ' s resignation . she have be replace by a new Secretary of State , and she set out her reason for resign in her resignation letter . if the right hon . Member have not have a copy , I be quite happy to make it available to he . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to a duty of candour for public body . in the light of the appalling crime of John Smyth , who leave over 100 child assault and traumatise while senior member of the Church of England look the other way , what step be the Minister consider in conjunction with the church so that bishop , diocese , cathedral and national church institution be designate as public authority for the purpose of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 ? in relation to my hon . friend ' s second point , it be right that the Church of England look very carefully now at its procedure in the light of what have happen and be bring forward . in relation to the duty of candour , I have no idea why the Opposition Front Benchers be laugh about that . it be a hugely important reform that we be bring forward , and it will make a significant difference across public service . we will have public servant put the public interest above their own personal reputation and above the reputation of institution . I hope the Opposition Front Benchers will come to support and help with the leadership require for that step change — that culture change — across public service . the Golden Valley development adjacent to GCHQ in Cheltenham will pay a vital role in our nation ' s cyber - security . the recent confirmation of £ 20 million from the Government for that development be welcome , but will the Secretary of State confirm that the project will continue to feature in future iteration of the national cyber strategy ? the good thing to do when it come to a specific place be for I to look into the exact situation and come back to the hon . member . I assure he , as I have say several time during this session , that cyber - security be extremely important to the Government . it be not just the Government ' s job ; cyber - security have to be take seriously by business and the whole of society . that be why we have the National Cyber Security Centre give advice to body of all kind to ensure that they be defend as well as possible . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to the infected blood compensation scheme , and everybody in the House and across the country be pleased to see it . as of this month , how many individual have register for infected blood compensation payment , and can the Minister provide an update for the delivery of compensation in 2025 ? I would be pleased to get those figure for the United Kingdom , but in particular for Northern Ireland . I be more than happy to write to the hon . gentleman with the figure for Northern Ireland , as I have do in the past ; he know that I be always happy to do that . on the timescale for payment , I have already indicate that the first payment for infected people will be out the door by the end of this year . I have undertake to bring forward regulation relate to the affected people , and to get they through the House — subject , of course , to the House ' s approval — by 31 March of next year , so that payment to the affect can start in 2025 . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? I shall . the business for the week commence 9 December will include : Monday 9 December — remain stage of the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill . Tuesday 10 December — Committee of the whole House on the Finance Bill ( day one ) . Wednesday 11 December — Committee of the whole House on the Finance Bill ( day two ) . Thursday 12 December — general debate on Lord Etherton ' s independent review into the treatment of LGBT veteran , follow by debate on a motion on the performance of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 13 December — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 16 December will include : Monday 16 December — Second reading of the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 17 December — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill . Wednesday 18 December — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( extension ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill , follow by remain stage of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 19 December — general debate on matter to be raise before the forthcoming Adjournment . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the Christmas recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 19 December and return on Monday 6 January 2025 . it be great to see that Christmas have come to the Palace of Westminster . I hope , Mr Speaker , that you enjoy the Christmas fayre yesterday , and that you load up on good from Frank ' s Luxury Biscuits from Herefordshire just as heavily as I do — I be wonder who eat all the biscuit . and just in time for Small Business Saturday , too . I understand that the Prime Minister will deliver a speech later today set out his plan for change . I must say , I be delighted — I be sure we all be — to hear that the Government be at last adopt a plan and be try to change . as we have so often note at business question , the Government ' s first five month have be a festival — no , a carnival , a supermarket sweep , a fill - your - boot , all - you - can - eat blunder - f — of delay and incompetence . you , Mr Speaker , more than any Member of this House , will be aware that the effective functioning of Parliament rest on its ability to hold Ministers to account . that have be true since its origin in the 13th century , and arguably since even before that . as you will know , the practice of seek reason and explanation for official action , be they the passage of Bills or the raising of taxation , be not some useful add - on or afterthought ; it be absolutely foundational to the whole idea of Parliament as a deliberative assembly , so I be sure that you will understand my disappointment that the Leader of the House have be so persistently unwilling to answer , or even address , the simple question that I have put to she in recent week . on 14 November , I draw attention to the Government ' s incompetence in combine at the same time three measure on national insurance and the minimum wage in a way that drastically raise the cost of hire entry - level staff , and I ask for an assessment of the total impact of those measure . I be afraid that the Leader of the House ' s response be to blame the previous Government , and to talk about employer who will pay no additional national insurance , a completely different group — quite irrelevant to the question ask . on 21 November , I again highlight this problem , and get the same response : blame the last government and change the subject . I also extend my concern about the Government ' s incompetence to include their decision to bring the clean energy commitment forward from 2035 to 2030 , and highlight a vast array of public and official worry about whether this be either achievable or financially viable . in response , I be sorry to say , the Leader of the House again do not engage with either question , instead accuse I of political opportunism . last week , we see the same thing once more . for the third time , I raise the question of labour ' s triple whammy in combine change to national insurance rate and threshold with change to the minimum wage . this time , the Leader of the House do not simply duck the question and change the subject ; she also give I the benefit of a little homily on the duty of the Opposition . it be true that the duty of the opposition be a topic on which , unlike the duty of Government , she have build up considerable expertise over more than a decade , but the real point be this : for a month now , I have be put to the Leader of the House basic question about the incompetence of this government . many different response be open to she . she could have say , " I agree with you . " she could have say , " I don ' t know , " " I will look into it , " " I will reply to you , " " I will ask a ministerial colleague to investigate and respond , " or " I will come back to the House with a proper account , " but on no occasion have she bother to give any kind of proper answer at all . instead — and I fear the same will be true this week — the Leader of the House ' s approach have be to change the subject and attack the previous Government , rather than defend the record of her Government , which be the whole point of these exchange . let we see what she say when she stand up shortly . if the Government have make a decent start , of course she might want to talk about that , but the truth be that the Government have make a dreadful start . they have be beset by petty scandal from the beginning ; they have destroy business confidence through a Budget that be visibly unravel before our eye , and only this week , they have lose a Cabinet Minister to new revelation about a criminal conviction for fraud . it be little wonder that the Prime Minister want a reset . the Leader of the House ' s unwillingness to engage , and to recognise and respond to question , be arguably more important than any aspect of policy , because it strike at the heart of the very idea of our parliamentary democracy . it be a discourtesy — indeed , possibly even an insult — to you , Mr Speaker , to all our colleague and their constituent , and to this House . it be make bad because the Leader of the House be responsible for parliamentary business and procedure , and should , one might think , set an example of openness . it be bad still for two further reason : because she herself have so often call for transparency from Ministers , and because a failure to be accountable be itself a breach of the rule of this House , of the nolan principle and of the ministerial code of conduct . that be quite a combination , so I ask she whether she plan to continue as she have do , or whether she will change this unfortunate habit and start to engage with the serious question that I have be ask . first , I put on record that Tuesday be International Day of Persons with Disabilities , and note that the House of Commons now have more disabled member than ever before . I commend their contribution , and look forward to work with they through the Modernisation Committee , and with you , Mr Speaker , to make sure that this place and our politic be as accessible as they can be . as have be mention , this Saturday be Small Business Saturday , when we celebrate the heart of all our high street . in these session , I like to hear about many of our constituent ' great caf é s , and in particular their bar , especially when an invitation for I to visit follow . I also put on record my thank to you , Mr Speaker , for the way proceeding be handle last Friday , and to all of those who take part in the debate on assist dying , or be in the Chamber for it . that debate be respectful , consider and thoughtful . whatever view we each take , it be a moment when huge attention be on we , and I think our democracy and our Parliament show itself at its good . member will see that there be lot of important issue and much important business in the run - up to Christmas . two third of the Bills that we announce in our King ' s Speech be now make their way through Parliament . the rail franchising Bill have receive Royal Assent ; the Renters ' Rights Bill have complete Committee ; and our important Budget measure will soon be pass . we be fix the foundation and get on with the job . as have be note , copy of the " plan for Change " will be available in the Vote Office shortly , ahead of the statement later today . it be another week , and another misjudged and confused contribution from the shadow Leader of the House . he really do need to work out what the conservative strategy for opposition be . be it to tell people across the country that they never have it so good as when the Conservatives be in office , or to learn from defeat and accept that they get thing wrong ? I gently advise they to listen to the voter , because act as if they do nothing wrong and accept no responsibility will not do they any good at all . if the right hon . Gentleman do not want to take my advice , perhaps he should listen to his own , because he say that the conservative suffer from " many disastrous recent failure of policy and leadership " , and I agree . he say we inherit a " struggle " economy and " anaemic " growth ; I agree with that , too . I also agree with he when he be a champion of net zero , and when he be Financial Secretary to the Treasury , he be right to care about economic stability . I agree with he ; do he still agree with he ? I be not quite sure . the right hon . Gentleman ask about scrutiny of legislation and debate , but I gently remind he that we have have many debate on the Finance Bill , on the Budget , and the on the national insurance contribution Bill , which be come back to the House next week and before Christmas . I must remind he yet again , I be afraid , that he be Financial Secretary to the Treasury when the national insurance contribution be raise not just on business but on worker ; he say that be a thoroughly " conservative thing to do . " he be also a Treasury Minister when the minimum wage be raise . he have have plenty of time to come to this House and explain why he think that be okay then but not okay now . the right hon . Gentleman raise the topic of the economy , but he fail to mention one of the big economic forecast out this week , from the OECD , which show that the UK be now forecast to be the fast grow european economy in the G7 over the next three year . he do not mention that when he be talk about the economy . we have always be clear that growth only matter when ordinary people right around the country feel well off and see public service improve ; that be the difference between our economic plan and his . we have a plan for change ; the Conservatives have yet to change — they be yet to learn their own lesson . we be lay out today how we will deliver our clear outcome . the right hon . Gentleman might not like they , because the Conservatives fail on all their measure , which be why they lose the election . while he and the rest of his party shout from the sideline and try to rewrite history , we be deliver the real change that the public vote for . my right hon . friend know that on occasion , this House can come to agreement about key piece of legislation . in the last Parliament , one such piece of legislation be the Football Governance Bill . will she give an update on its progress in this Parliament and consider grant time for a debate on the sustainability of football ? I be really pleased and proud that this Government have bring back a strengthened football Governance Bill ; it be be consider in the House of Lords . the Conservatives support it when they be in government , but I have to say that the behaviour of conservative peer in the House of Lords do not suggest that the Conservatives be still in favour of it , because they have table hundred of amendment to slow down progress of that important Bill . if they still care about put fan back at the heart of our football , and make sure that we have a sustainable football industry in the future , perhaps they should tell their colleague in the other place to pipe down . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . sadly , it be difficult to deny that there have be many time in recent year when debate in this House have not be of the high quality , when member have not show the public their good side , and when , dare I say , some have perhaps lose a little of their sense of perspective , as could be see in the way they conduct themselves . but as the Leader of the House have say , the debate on the private Member ' s Bill last Friday be entirely different . it be measure , respectful and consider . member listen carefully , intervene with important and pertinent point , and show british democracy at its good . in short , it be something to be extremely proud of , regardless of whether we agree with the outcome or not . party politic be largely keep out of that debate , as mps be rightly give a free vote ; a vote of conscience on a consequential topic . free vote should surely be grant when we be debate issue that transcend party political boundary , and surely there can be no issue more important than ensure that our planet be still able to support human life . the Climate and Nature Bill be a crucial cross - party Bill promote by my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) with support from 250 parliamentarian , include 88 Labour mp , and sponsor by mp from six of the party that sit in the House . indeed , the Bill be champion in the last Parliament by the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , and even , I understand , by the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) . will the Leader of the House ask the Government to commit to a free vote on that crucial Bill ' s Second reading on 24 January ? I wholeheartedly agree with the hon . member ' s representation of the House last Friday and how we really do show ourselves at our very good . I welcome the opportunity to work with she on the Modernisation Committee . one thing we be look at be how to ensure that Back Benchers can come together more often in the interest of what our constituent want we to be talk about and in the public interest . the hon . Member ask about the Bill that will come before we early next year . I be not quite sure of its status , but I reassure she that the Government be absolutely committed to be a clean energy superpower by 2030 . many in the conservative party now want to change the target , but we be committed to they and to the benefit they will bring , not just to tackle climate change , but to create the job of the future and make sure that we have low bill and energy security for the long run . in a cross - party spirit , I will say at this juncture that I see that the leader of the Liberal Democrats ' Christmas song — I be sure everyone will want to download it — be ride high in the chart this week . I hope that it will not be the same as his paddle boarding , which get off to a great start and then fall flat on its face . rise — order . can I say to the House that hopefully , with quick question and short answer , we can get through ? I want to make sure that we time the statement , which be important to the House , with the Prime Minister . I be aim for about 10 past or quarter past 11 . let we have a good example from Jayne Kirkham . thank you , Mr Speaker . last month , it be announce that several Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government office will be close , include the one in Truro in my constituency . the next near office be about an hour and a half ' s commute away , make relocation difficult . will the Leader of the House facilitate a meeting between I and the appropriate Minister to discuss the future for Truro MHCLG worker ? I be really sorry to hear that . I understand that there will be no redundancy , but this be obviously a difficult time for the staff . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting with the Minister to discuss it . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . in addition to the business announce by the Leader of the House , next Thursday in Westminster Hall there will be debate on Disability History Month and the opportunity for float offshore wind power in the Celtic sea . on Tuesday 17 December , with your permission , Mr Speaker , there will be a debate on the impact of Old Oak Common on rail service to the west and to Wales . there be opportunity for the two remain debate in Westminster Hall on Thursday 19 December . I remind colleague that the Committee be closely monitor those people who sign application and say they will speak in debate but then fail to turn up . yesterday , I meet representative of the afghan community . this be another of those area that have be neglect follow the general election , with people in Afghanistan in fear of their life because of the Taliban . equally , the oppression of woman in Afghanistan be outrageous and need to be call out . there also seem to be a change of policy at the Home Office in respect of issue visa to people flee Afghanistan . can we have a statement on the Floor of the House on what policy the Government be follow to help and assist these vulnerable people at a time of terrible trouble ? first , I join the hon . gentleman in advertise all the debate that happen in Westminster Hall , and I encourage colleague to attend they more often . the hon . Gentleman raise the important matter of those flee persecution , especially woman flee the situation in Afghanistan . this Government have always take a positive view of these issue , as do the previous Government . I will ensure that he get a full reply on that matter . this week , Gordon Brown and the US ambassador to the UK jointly launch a new £ 6 million investment by Comic Relief and Amazon UK in the Multibank project , which be a fantastic initiative that donate surplus stock from company to family in real need — everything from basic like baby clothe and bed to household product . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate John Shaw of Littleborough , who be name Rochdale man of the year recently , for his charitable work for organisation such as Multibank ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate John Shaw , Rochdale ' s man of the year — perhaps an award that my hon . friend might one day be lucky enough to receive — for all his work with Multibank , which do great charitable work . despite the valiant effort of Superintendent Simon Hutchison of Romford police , who do a superb job look after my constituency , in the London borough of Havering we do not get the police cover that we pay for . the Mayor of London be not be fair to Romford . will the Leader of the House ensure that we have a debate about police reform in the Greater London area , so that place such as Romford get police on the street , look after the community ? we will soon have a debate about police reform , when we bring forward the crime and police Bill next year . this government be put 13 , 000 extra police officer on the beat , bring in respect order and take tough action — more police and more power — so that police in his constituency can get on with the job that they need to do . I have be support constituent in North East Derbyshire who face many issue with their new build home . the construction quality can be poor , communication with the developer unsatisfactory , and key landscaping leave unfinished . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on the responsibility of developer ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend on her recent engagement to another Member of this House , my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . we have a new power couple emerge on the Back Benches . she raise some serious point . the Government be look at give the New Homes Ombudsman Service the power it need to investigate and resolve complaint . I will ensure that the House be inform of that as it progress . the right hon . Lady will be aware from her constituency of the economic value that HOME have bring as a venue for theatre and the art . in Salisbury , we have a new executive director of Salisbury Playhouse . will she ensure that , when think about regeneration , Ministers from the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government come together to centre investment in our high street on the therapeutic value of art and culture ? that have have such an impact in many other place , and it now must happen in Salisbury . I absolutely agree that the cultural and leisure offer be vital to regeneration and to bring together our town centre and community like his in Salisbury . those Departments be already come together , and that will continue when we consider how to create great place such as Salisbury . at the Excel parking on Copeland Street in Derby , some resident be get parking fine if they do not pay for their parking within five minute . I be pleased that the Government will drive up standard in the private parking sector and be on the side of motorist . could we have an update from a local Government Minister on when the new code of practice for private parking will be publish ? I suggest that a five - minute rip - off charge be an example of what need to go . my hon . friend rightly highlight a pretty scandalous case of private parking charge in her constituency . as she say , we will soon announce our plan for the new code of practice , and I will ensure that the House hear about that first . Rachel be a village postmistress in my constituency , and her life be smash to piece by the Horizon scandal . her claim be decide by a body of professional put together to work these thing out . it be submit , and the Post Office have 40 day to respond . on the 38th day , the Post Office ask two question , which be answer on day 39 , but the timetable be reset right back to zero . she be now 23 day into the second lot of 40 day , and she still have no offer . she say it be " mentally batter " , and I say it be not fair . can we have a debate on how we stop big corporation , and the Post Office in particular , play game with little people , whom they have ruin — financially and reputationally — and continue to bully ? I be sorry to hear about Rachel ' s situation . the hon . member be right that sub - postmaster have wait too long for justice , and they continue to wait too long for compensation . this Government have set aside for the first time a proper budget to deal with this . we will act swiftly , and I will ensure that the House be continually update . in Doncaster , Thorne and the Isle of Axholme , we be proud to be the home of a few branch of the Lions charity . each year , in the run - up to Christmas , I feed myself up and swap my usual suit and red tie for a very different festive outfit . the Lions sleigh and volunteer bring Father Christmas to the doorstep of thousand of smile child . will the Leader of the House join I in praise the hard work of the volunteer and their dedication , and wish the Thorne , Doncaster and Isle of Axholme Lions every success in smash their fundraising goal this Christmas ? I hope to see some fancy dress go on as we approach Christmas , although I be not sure Mr Speaker would allow it in the Chamber . I join my hon . friend in praise the work of volunteer group such as the Doncaster Lions in his constituency , which he do every week in these session . I hope he continue to do so . my constituent in Boston and Skegness and people across the whole of Lincolnshire be concerned about the uncertainty surround British Steel . there be report this week that it might be on the verge of collapse . will the Leader of the House ensure that there be a ministerial statement to update we on the position , with a guarantee that British Steel will not be allow to close ? the Government be work flat - out to protect British Steel , because it be vital to our future economy and our security . we have make some statement to the House about progress , but I will ensure that this House be the first place to hear about any development . community pharmacy be become an increasingly important part of our place - base healthcare provision , so I be pleased that our Government be commit to more localise delivery . none the less , numerous pharmacy in the St Austell and Newquay constituency have close in recent year , thank to a shocking contract under the last government . what discussion have the Leader of the House have with Department of Health and Social Care colleague regard pharmacy to ensure that they be properly remunerate for the service they provide and that the sustainability of the operating model be secure ? community pharmacy play a vital role in ensure that healthcare be deliver and be base in our community . I will ensure that the Department of Health and Social Care have hear my hon . friend ' s question today . it would make a good Backbench Business or Westminster Hall debate , as I know there be a vacancy for they . will the Leader of the House provide time for a debate about free trade and how good to approach the incoming American Administration to secure a free trade agreement ? will she remind she right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister that we already have a free trade agreement with the European Union , but we do not with the United States , which be our single big national trading partner ? such an agreement would be greatly to our advantage , rather than align with the EU , which might see the United Kingdom subject to the american tariff apply to the EU . that would be very much to our disadvantage . as the Prime Minister make clear the other evening in his speech at the Guildhall , we do not see this as an either / or . both be crucial partner , and we will pursue the well free trade agreement we can get with the United States and with other , just as we have one already with the EU . these thing be a delicate balance , and I be afraid that too many of the trade deal sign by the previous Government sign away many of our farmer in this country . perhaps that be something the Conservatives should consider . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate all the winner of the Saltires , Scotland ' s national book award , particularly Jen Stout for her courageous and compassionate dispatch from the frontline in Ukraine ? on a light note , I congratulate all the gaelic singer and musician who triumph at the Trads in Inverness at the weekend . will she find Government time for a debate on the scottish art , so as to encourage Creative Scotland and the Scottish Government to carry on funding event such as the Eilean Dorcha festival and HebCelt and the dynamic gallery of an Lanntair and Taigh Chearsabhagh in my constituency ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Jen Stout and the other winner of the award he mention . as other have do , he raise the importance of culture to local community . he will know this be a devolved matter , and that the Scottish Government , thank to this Government ' s Budget , now have the fund and the power they need to continue support art organisation like his . today , a hugely significant report from Amnesty International find that Israel have perpetrate three act against Palestinians in Gaza that be prohibit under the genocide convention . the Government have repeatedly say that it be for judicial body to determine whether genocide be take place , but that utterly fail to take account of the obligation to prevent under the convention . if the Government have a duty to prevent , they can not wait until a court have make a determination before take action to — again , I emphasise — prevent . in the light of Amnesty ' s report , would the Government be prepared to make time to debate this matter , which go to the heart of UK compliance with international law ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue , and I think the whole House will join in say that we want an immediate ceasefire . far too many civilian have die in this conflict , and it be time it come to an urgent end . what we need be a long - term path to a two - state solution with a fully recognise state of Palestine alongside a safe and secure Israel , and that be what this Government will continue to work towards . I will ensure that there be time to consider some of the issue she have raise . I be frequently contact by constituent of mine in Haltwhistle who be outrage by the empty building that pockmark the town . will the Leader of the House commit to a debate in Government time on how we can re - energise town such as Haltwhistle so that they can fuel the growth that this country desperately need ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . breathe new life into our high street be a priority of this Government . we have a range of measure around business rate , devolution of power and support for local community that be come , and I will ensure that the House be always update . Dunoon Mugs , base in Stone , be celebrate 50 year produce some of the world ' s great ceramic . can we have a debate not just to celebrate the amazing work of our potter in Staffordshire but on how we secure their future ? the right hon . Gentleman raise the future of ceramic , which be so important to his constituency and the surround region . it be one of our important , long - stand industry . I be sure that if he be to apply for a debate — as long as he add his name and then turn up for it — he might get one of the slot that be go . today , 5 December , be International Volunteer Day . in the interest of time , I will not list all the voluntary organisation , volunteer group and role in my constituency , but the contribution they make be vital . may we have a debate in Government time to celebrate the contribution that volunteer make to our local community ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the volunteer in her constituency and all across the country . as always at business question , many member want to thank their local volunteer and community group for their work . as I often say , I think that a Backbench Business debate on the subject would be very well attend . my constituent Kirsty be look to adopt a child , but , because she be self - employ , she be entitle to neither adoption leave nor adoption pay . if she be have a biological child , she would be eligible for maternity allowance , but she will get no Government support . will the Leader of the House set aside some Government time to debate the support that Government could give to adoptive parent ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the case of her constituent Kirsty . she will know that the Employment Rights Bill , which explore such issue , be in its Committee stage . she might want to consider table an amendment to that Bill or raise these issue when the Bill return for its final stage . in 2021 in my constituency , a six - year - old girl , Sharlotte - Sky Naglis , be kill after be hit by a speed driver who be on drug and be drunk . the driver spend 11 week in a coma and while the police have take a blood sample they be unable to test it without his consent . ever since , Sharlotte ' s mother Claire have be campaign tirelessly to amend section 7a of the Road Traffic Act 1988 to allow blood sample to be test without consent in case where dangerous driving have lead to a loss of life . will the Leader of the House please make time to debate this important matter in the House ? what a tragic case my hon . friend raise . many such case be raise consistently in the Chamber . we be currently consider possible change to motor offence to cover such situation . I will ensure that any such change be announce in the House first . we all know that the country need more home , but the Government ' s propose algorithm throw up anomaly such as an 86 % increase in the housing target for East Hampshire , while target for London actually go down . may we have a debate in Government time on how we make housing balanced and sustainable ? we be proud to have set a very ambitious housing target for this Parliament , but that be not to say that there will be a developer free - for - all . these will be locally develop and appropriate plan , but we do need to build the home of the future . that be what the Government be try to do . I be go to ask a more political question , but I will accept the invitation to talk about Small Business Saturday . I invite the Leader of the House to my constituency to meet some of our small business . two in particular come to mind . the first be the Bald Baker , a business start up during lockdown by a single dad . his late creation be a pie that contain cheese , chip and doner kebab . [ laughter . ] perhaps too early , but it do fit perfectly in your hand . if that do not appeal to the Leader of the House , perhaps we could visit the nearby Platinum Barbers and she could be tempt by a haircut just like mine . I do , at the beginning , invite contribution for Small Business Saturday , and my hon . friend be put in a good early bid . the Bald Baker ' s pie sound incredibly scottish to I . Cheese , chip and doner kebab in a pie : all the carb you could ever need in one go ! but perhaps I will not take he up on the offer of the barber . I will stick with the hairdresser downstairs . recent figure suggest that approximately 982 , 000 people be live with dementia in the UK , and that number will go up . many of those people reside in care home , while other rely on care provide in their own home . however , research from the Alzheimer ' s Society show that only 29 % of care worker have receive any specific training on care for people with dementia . will the Leader of the House back the Alzheimer ' s Society ' s campaign and schedule time for a debate on how we can ensure that more care worker be train in treat people with dementia ? the hon . Gentleman raise an excellent point . Dementia be an awful affliction , and the number of people with dementia will only grow and spread in the come year . the Government be prioritise social care to ensure that social care worker have the training , pay and status they need to do the job , but I will certainly look into the issue he raise . complaint from my constituent in West Lancashire about Northern Rail be prolific . last month , Northern Rail tell I that issue such as freeze carriage , train cancel at the last minute and non - existent Sunday service would be resolve by the new working day agreement . I learn yesterday that that negotiation have fail , leave passenger back at square one . may we have a debate on the Floor of the House on the state of Northern Rail and the impact on passenger across West Lancashire , Lancashire and the whole of the north of England ? I know from my own constituency experience that the people of the north have be let down over many year of under - investment and mismanagement by Northern , and its current performance be unacceptable . that be why we have a plan to take the franchise back into public ownership , so that we can improve reliability and ensure that people can get the train that they need . and now , a final pithy question from Sir John Hayes . problem gamble first break people and then cost life . it be a far cry from the weekly pool coupon of my father ' s day , and it be devastating people in Lincolnshire and elsewhere . give the announcement of a new £ 30 million statutory gambling levy , will the Leader of the House arrange a debate so that we can discuss how to guarantee that that money be spread fairly , and be not eat up by organisation sponsor by the gambling industry ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise this issue . online gambling in particular have completely change the whole industry and increase people ' s susceptibility to problem such as gambling addiction . this government be take forward the recommendation make previously to tackle the scourge of gambling , and I will ensure that the relevant Minister come to the House at some point to talk about these issue . I thank the Leader of the House for a comprehensive session of business question . plan for Change : Milestones for Mission - lead Government with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement about the next phase of the Government ' s programme . in July we set out our legislative programme , in October we set out our financial plan , and today we be set out our plan for change . when we be elect , we say that we would have five long - term mission for the country : to grow the economy , to build an NHS fit for the future , to break down the barrier to opportunity , to take back our street , and to make the UK a clean energy superpower . these mission mark an important and fundamental break from the record of chaos that we see under the previous Administration — the constant change in policy that prevent the then Government from face up to long - term problem , hold people back and , bad of all , help to spread the belief that politic and government could no long deliver for people . in fact , by the end they have give up even try . we will never submit to the fatalism that say government can not deliver change for people . we do not believe that living standard have to stagnate as they do in the last Parliament . we do not accept the low level of satisfaction with the NHS ever record , which be what we inherit when we come to power . we do not believe that a tawdry surrender to Tory Back Benchers should be allow to cut off the dream of home ownership for the next generation . we will not sit back and accept a situation in which young child be fall behind their peer even before they start school , damage their opportunity for the rest of their life . a break with all that be more than a political choice . it be a national necessity , so today we turn the page on that record . we reject the hopelessness that it foster , and we have set out milestone for each of our mission and the foundation that underpin they . we have already stabilise the public finance . we have announce £ 22 billion more for the NHS , and we be increase the school budget by more than £ 2 billion . we have reject the plan that we inherit from the Conservatives to cut back on capital investment and on the country ' s future ; instead , we want to build the school , build the hospital , build the house and build the transport infrastructure that the country need — investment that the Conservatives now say they support , although they reject every mean of raise the revenue to pay for they . that prove only one thing : they have give up any pretence of be the party of sound money , and give up on be a serious political party at all . our plan for change set out key milestone for the country . the first be to raise living standard in every part of the United Kingdom , so that work people have more money in their pocket no matter where in the country they live . the second be to build 1 . 5 million home and to fast - track planning decision on at least 150 major infrastructure project ; that be more than in the last 14 year combine . the third be to tackle the hospital backlog by meet the NHS standard of patient wait no long than 18 week for elective treatment in England . the fourth be to provide a name police officer for every neighbourhood , and 13 , 000 additional officer , police community support officer and special constable in neighbourhood team in England and Wales . the fifth be to secure home - grow energy while also protect bill payer : we want to be on track for clean power by 2030 . the sixth be to give child the good start in life by ensure that a record percentage of five - year - old in England be ready to learn when they start school . underpin those milestone be the strong foundation that the country need . economic stability be the foundation for growth , follow a budget that restore stability to the public finance and put in place investment to move the country forward . we will reduce net migration from the record high level that we inherit from the previous Government , clear the asylum backlog and increase return of people who do not have the right to be here — work that have already begin . we will also fulfil the Government ' s first duty of protect our people through strong national security . those be the milestone in our " plan for Change " . none of they be easy , but worthwhile change seldom be . to deliver they will require relentless focus and face up to the trade - off involve . govern be not just about what we want to do , but about how we want to do it , so we have to reform the state itself to deliver our goal . that be why we want value for money , and be crack down on fraud and waste through the new covid corruption commissioner . that be why we will raise £ 6 billion by go after tax avoider — unlike the conservative party , we be put in the money to make it happen . that be why the Chancellor demand efficiency and productivity saving of 2 % from each Government Department next year . that be why we want to get more people off welfare and into work . that be why we will tackle the delay and block in our planning system to make it fast to get thing build . the old debate be just about government budget . the new debate have to be about how those budget be use , and about how people can be equip with the right technology and the right system to deliver , so we will ask the follow question each time . be power be devolve enough ? be technology be use enough ? be we learn enough from those on the frontline ? we will have more to say about reform of the state soon . I know there may be scepticism from those who first accuse we of be far too cautious and now accuse we of be far too ambitious , but stop and think about what would happen if we do not set such goal . politic need a change when people have lose faith in its capacity to deliver , and the Government system itself need a change to focus on the goal that we have set . if we have just carry on in the same old pattern , we would have too many child who be not ready to start school , with opportunity cut off within the first few year of their life . we would carry on with huge NHS waiting list , which hurt both our people and our economy . we would have more and more young people cut off from have a home of their own and ask what all their effort and hard work will ever lead to . we would continue with too many of our town centre be no - go zone for people after dark . we would still be at the mercy of dictator when it come to energy price . perhaps most of all , we would have an economy like the one the Conservatives run , in which living standard continue to stagnate , just as they do in the last Parliament . if we do that , the loss of faith would simply carry on . it be not a matter of whether we should do this . we have to do this to stop the country fall behind , and to meet the challenge that we face . if we meet these goal , we will have a country where living standard be rise , more child be ready for school , few people be wait in pain for NHS treatment , more people have the chance to have a home of their home , and our street be safe because we have the community police we need . that be change worth have and change worth fight for , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the right hon . gentleman for advance sight of his statement . it be very nice to receive it only 12 hour after the Times , although I must say that I receive the policy document itself only at 11 . 05 be , unlike Labour mps at Pinewood studio who , accord to social medium , have the document some time before . while the Prime Minister be at Pinewood , I hope he will hear its owner ' s concern about the very substantial increase in business rate from 2026 , which will affect the profit and viability of what be , under the Conservatives , a flourish sector . the opposition congratulate the Government on their most recent reset — there be only a few more reset leave before Christmas . the Labour party might want to try turn it off and , well , maybe just leave it off , but it be good that it have take the time to come up with an emergency list of priority . after only 14 year in opposition and five month in power , it have finally decide on some thing that it be go to work towards . the statement be quite punchy about the past , unusually punchy for the right hon . Gentleman . if he be rattle , and he be not the rattle type , it be a sign that the Government must be feel pretty unstable at the moment . Labour member talk about legacy , and I wish they good fortune in government — I genuinely mean that . the last Government have to clean up the mess from the great financial crisis in a century . the last Government have to deal with the big pandemic in a century . the last Government have to deal with the big war in Europe since 1945 . [ interruption . ] Labour member might gloss over that , they might pretend it be not important , but history judge it very differently . it reflect very badly on the Labour party that it refuse to acknowledge the importance of those extremely significant event . I will now turn to each of the new millstone in order . first , raise living standard in every part of the United Kingdom so that work people have more money in their pocket , no matter where they live . how be this to be measure ? what be the metric ? when will the datum be publish ? who will be hold to account ? we all need to know . secondly , build 1 . 5 million home and fast - track planning decision . the Office for Budget Responsibility have already say that this Government be very unlikely to build more home than the last Conservative Government . what have change since the Budget ? why do the Government now believe they will be able to achieve this ? be there more money ? have the spending plan change ? thirdly , tackle hospital backlog . we have already see funding first , reform later — a disastrous way to do business . nhs boss have be brief about this , and they be already brief the press that this requirement will put enormous pressure on A & E without additional money beyond that give at the Budget . be more money go to be make available for the NHS to fulfil this milestone ? fourthly , police . only 3 , 000 of the 13 , 000 neighbourhood police officer be extra new police officer . this target be not genuine . be there a proposal to deal with the backlog in the court ? without that , extra police officer will lead only to great backlog in the court . do the Labour party have a plan for this ? fifthly , energy . in March , Labour ' s mission document say that , by 2030 , the UK would be the first major country in the world to run 100 % on clean and cheap power . since March , this have be degrade by 5 % . can we expect the target to be degrade by 5 % every nine month ? sixthly , get child ready to learn . this be a genuinely wonderful target , but what do the right hon . Gentleman mean by " ready to learn " ? how will it be measure ? when will the House be tell whether progress be be make ? obviously , on all of these , there be good thing to be do , but the mission will only mean anything if the Government be honest about what they be do and about the milestone they be hit or not hit . also , why have the Government downgrade certain other priority ? how have they choose these six issue over immigration , over GP surgery , over A & E , over defence , over the £ 300 energy bill reduction target or over become the fast - grow economy in the G7 ? why have the Government choose these priority ? the House should be tell . finally , who be take responsibility — I mean real responsibility — for achieve the target ? a lot of we be pleased when , the other day , the Health Secretary say that individual at the top of the health service would be hold accountable with their job if target be not hit . will the same apply to Ministers ? who in Government be take real responsibility for the target ? if the Government be serious , we need datum , accountability and transparency . will the right hon . Gentleman guarantee to the House that we will get that ? I have spend more of my life than I would have like in opposition , and I learn one thing about be in opposition : one have to decide what one ' s attack be . as I listen to the hon . Gentleman , I be not sure whether he support or oppose the plan . the hon . Gentleman refer to millstone . let I tell he very clearly : the only millstone that this Government and this country have be the appalling legacy leave by the Conservatives . let we contrast what we be announce today with their milestone of failure . they have record high waiting list , the bad Parliament for living standard on record , a surrender on house building , a failure on infrastructure and a £ 22 billion hole in the public finance — those be their milestone of failure . these be our choice today . the metric by which we measure thing be set out in the document before the House . the target will make a real difference to people ' s live : high living standard across the country , more housing , few people on NHS waiting list , more community police and the good start in life for all child . that final metric be already measure when child start school at the age of five ; under the hon . Gentleman ' s Government , that metric fall , so our plan be to raise that , so that three out of four child can start school ready to learn . that be the measure that we will choose . the truth be that the Conservatives could not tackle the challenge we have set out today , and they know it . they could not unblock the housing system or get the growth the country need because they be the one block the new housing and the infrastructure that we need . they could not fix the school or the hospital , or get more police on the street , because they be still say that they support the investment while oppose any revenue measure that pay for it , thereby sacrifice any reputation for economic competence that they have . what a contrast . we will not subscribe to the fatalistic view that all we can look forward to be more of the kind of failure we see over the past 14 year . we believe in set out plan that will improve people ' s life , because we know that a united Government , with a clear sense of priority , prepare to do the hard yard and make the difficult long - term choice for the country , can deliver a well future for people . that be what be set out in the plan we have publish today . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s plan for change , which will ensure that the Government be focus on delivery , not the dither we have see for the past 14 year with the Conservatives . I especially welcome the NHS target of 18 week ; the last Labour Government be able to deliver that target and NHS satisfaction level be at their high in history . fourteen year of the Conservatives run the NHS into the ground have leave it in an appalling state . do my right hon . friend agree with I that that must never be allow to happen again ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . when we come into office in 1997 , we be also face with an nhs that be in severe difficulty . let I be clear with the House : meet that target be extremely challenging , but we believe that by set it and drive the system towards it , we can make real progress towards reduce waiting list . what a contrast in term of what the public feel . when we leave office in 2010 , the public satisfaction rate with the NHS be the high ever record . when we come back into office in July , those satisfaction level be the low ever record . that be what we be try to turn around through the plan we have publish today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for advance sight of the statement . this new Government have follow the disaster of the previous Conservative Administration . the Conservatives break the NHS , they crash the economy with the disastrous mini - Budget and they manage the staggering feat of deliver five Prime Ministers in six year . it should not exactly be a hard act to follow — and yet , too many people feel like this new Government be still not listen to they . when my colleague and I speak to our constituent , they simply can not comprehend decision such as the increase in national insurance , which will hurt job just as we need to get the economy go ; the tax on family farm ; or the utterly misguided removal of the winter fuel payment . the right hon . Gentleman will forgive I , therefore , if I approach today ' s announcement with a degree of scepticism . new target be all well and good , but people have hear lot of similar pledge and target before . as they know all too well , without a proper plan for delivery , they fail . I hope the Government recognise that pursue the target at the expense of all the other thing leave break by the Conservatives will not cut it . the british public will not be take for fool . on that point , I want to focus on the NHS . yes , bring down waiting list for treatment be a crucial part of the picture , but do so at the cost of neglect A & e wait or the ability to see a gp be like rob Peter to pay Paul . we know that to fix the crisis in the NHS we must also fix the crisis in our care system . indeed , it be on fix health and care and deliver on the issue that people care about most that we on the liberal Democrat Benches will continue to hold the Government to account . when will we hear more detail about how the plan be to be deliver , and particularly , about spend allocation for the NHS to fix our hospital and reduce those waiting list ? I welcome the question from the liberal Democrat spokesperson . she be right to point out the Conservatives ' record , but I gently say that she too seem to support extra spending but oppose all the revenue - raise measure that go towards that . the truth be that if we be serious , we can not do that . the reason we have have to raise revenue be the appalling legacy that we inherit . we have to stabilise the public finance and fix the situation we be leave with . now that we have do that , we can look forward to deliver on these key goal . the hon . Lady ask how the plan be to be pay for . there will be a spending review next year , as she know . however , we have already announce £ 22 billion extra for the NHS over the next couple of year , which be accompany by the reform that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have set out . this Labour Government ' s plan to make work pay will give thousand of worker in my constituency a much - need pay rise after 14 year of failure by the Conservative party . do my right hon . friend agree that plan to support low - pay worker in insecure job will be not only crucial but absolutely central to our plan for change ? I welcome what my hon . Friend say about pay . the Chancellor announce a significant increase in the minimum wage at the time of the Budget a few week ago . of course we want public sector worker and everybody who help to deliver a plan to be reward well , but it also have to come with change in the way the state work , to make sure we get the good value for money and the good productivity and make the good use of technology . we can not have that just in the private sphere ; we have to apply it to the public sphere to make sure we get the good bang for the taxpayer ' buck . I assure the right hon . Gentleman that I do not think anybody doubt the sincerity of the new Government in want to achieve these laudable aim . I remind he , however , of John Lennon ' s line : " life be what happen to you while you ' re busy make other plan . " notably absent from the priority be one such as reduce the national debt or deal with the demographic challenge or the lack of defence and security that we need to build up to confront global challenge . be these aim the Government ' s only priority or will we see a big list that deal with some of the really existential challenge that threaten the independence and survival of our country ? I welcome the hon . member ' s question . he refer to defence and security . I do deliberately mention that area in my remark , because it be an absolute foundation of any Government that their first duty be to protect their people . that be why there be a specific section on it in the document , and why it be an underpinning foundation for the goal that we have set out today . I listen carefully to the shadow Minister ' s reply , and it sound to I like he welcome much of the investment that our Government will deliver , but , funnily enough , he will not support any measure to pay for it . I be always teach that the Tories be against a something - for - nothing culture . do my right hon . friend agree that this will only compound the Tories ' reputation for economic recklessness ? I do think the Tories have a problem . the new Leader of the opposition stand at that Dispatch Box a couple of week ago and say that she support all the extra investment . therefore , every time the opposition stand up and oppose the revenue measure that be design to fund they , all they do be expose their own economic incoherence . it be quite simple : if the opposition support the investment , they have either to support the revenue measure that we have set out , or set out alternative revenue - raise measure to meet the investment that they support . so far , they have utterly fail to do that . five month in and after a Budget that the Office for Budget Responsibility say will lower growth over five year , increase inflation and reduce the number of people in job , it be extraordinary to see a document that have so many area not cover . I want to probe the right hon . Gentleman specifically on his goal of increase disposable income for work people . what would he say to those 44 , 000 terminally ill old people who , in shocking news last week from Marie Curie , will not get their winter fuel allowance this year ? will he be judge by his governance action ? every Government be judge by their action and by the legacy that they leave to their successor . we have to take that decision on winter fuel precisely because of the legacy that be leave to we . we do want to see a rise in people ' s living standard and in their disposable income . those stagnate under the previous Government , and let we not forget how unusual that be . this be the first Parliament in live memory that see stagnate living standard across the whole population . we aim to change that and make sure that people see rise living standard wherever they live in the country . when I be a child in Denton Holme in Carlisle , PC Kevin Scott be a very familiar figure . he know we and we know his name . do the Minister agree that not only do society exist , but it be weave from thousand of community such as Denton Holme , and that our commitment to reintroduce name community police officer will strengthen those community , strengthen society and take back our street ? my hon . friend be right . let I praise pc Kevin Scott and other officer like he who be know in the community . while I be here , Madam Deputy Speaker , let I mention Kenny , our police community support officer on Bilston high street , who help to keep we safe . we want to see more name officer like that , so that people know who be keep their street safe and can put a face to the name , and we can restore proper community police to make our street and our town centre safe . however the Minister try to dress this up , there be an unmistakeable whiff of panic about it . one would have think that a decade and a half of opposition would have be ample time to prepare a plan for change , rather than the relaunch of a government whose five - year plan seem to have unravel after just five month . I be particularly interested , however , to hear about the Government ' s commitment to reform of the state . he say that each time , they will ask , " be power be devolve enough ? " give that the Scottish Government have ask for power on migration , employment law and the constitution to be devolve , when can we expect to see some action on that reform of the state , and that important commitment to devolution ? the hon . member call this a relaunch . I hate to break it to he , but the Government he support in Scotland produce a programme for government every single year . do that mean that they relaunch every year , or do he put that accusation only to we ? he ask about devolution . we be the party that create devolution because we believe in a powerful Scottish Parliament . we still do , and it have just receive its big real - term increase in funding since devolution come into being . he miss out his thank to the Labour Chancellor who make that happen . I welcome today ' s statement , which be a real plan for change and hope . it be clear that the Conservatives do not like we talk about their record , but it have a real - world impact in constituency such as mine , particularly when it come to bobby on the beat . for 14 year , the Conservatives strip we of bobby on the beat , and as my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) say , neighbourhood policing be strip out of many local community . I particularly welcome the requirement in today ' s plan for more neighbourhood policing , which will have a real - world impact on my constituent . my hon . friend be absolutely right : we see huge cut in the number of police officer after the conservative party come to power , which really affect the neighbourhood community police team that we have set up during our period in Government . we want to ensure that there be proper neighbourhood policing team in every community , with a name officer , so that people can feel safe on their street and in their community . that absolutely underpin our quality of life . there be no freedom if people do not feel safe , which be why it be such a core part of the plan that we have produce today . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to revitalise faith in democratic politic , and I agree that Government can be a force for good , but he will know that perhaps the big macroeconomic challenge that we face be productivity ; indeed , he mention it today . I be therefore disappointed to see in the plan no real mention of work - force skill or national economic resilience , in term of grow more of the food that we eat and make more of the good that we need . will he look at those two area and set productivity target , for which Ministers can be hold accountable , so that what really count be not just what we spend but what we get for what we spend ? the right hon . Member might have notice that I say in my opening remark that an old debate just about the size of the budget be not enough for the situation that we face . of course budget , resource and investment matter , but so too do reform of the way the state work , the application of technology , and the balance between what be do centrally and what be do in devolve area . alongside any delivery goal there have to be a real plan to make they happen that reform the state . I be clear that that must go alongside the goal that we have set out today . waiting list on the NHS have already be mention , but they need to be mention again , because the last 14 year have make such a difference to constituent in Truro and Falmouth . they have really struggle to work and to live , have to wait one or two year for orthopaedic operation . please will my right hon . friend speak again about what have already be do to deal with those waiting list , and how that will lead into the future ? this be a hugely important problem for the country , because the current level be not just bad for those wait a long time for NHS treatment ; they be also bad for the economy , because we have so many people in that position . that number have start to fall slightly since we come into office , but it will take a long and sustained effort and a combination of investment and reform . I be glad that we be able to announce the big increase in NHS funding since 2010 outside the pandemic period , but that have to be use in a way that get waiting list down , help the people wait for NHS treatment and , crucially , help produce the economic growth and productivity we need . the truth be too many people be wait in pain and too many people of working age be out of work on long - term sickness benefit , and we have to do something about both those thing if we be to meet our economic growth target and get the rise living standard we want to see . in the document , the Government have downgrade their pledge to have the fast - grow economy in the G7 and junk their pledge to cut energy bill by £ 300 , break two promise to the british people . of the milestone they be keep , who be accountable for each one , what be the detailed metric , where be the implementation plan and will Ministers take responsibility if they fail to meet they ? if the hon . member read the document carefully , he will see that the growth target be very much in the document , but the document also say that it be not enough just to have economic growth ; people have to feel it in their standard of living . that should be an important lesson for all of we in politic . the hon . member challenge I on accountability . of course the target be challenge , but let we look at the alternative . we be not prepared to carry on with the thinking that announcement be something real , with no real focus on delivery and drive the system . in case he have not notice , there be a crisis of faith in politic out there . we have set out target today that will make a real difference to people ' s life . I accept that they be challenge , but if we have few people wait in pain , more people able to own their own home , safe street and a well chance in life for child start school , that be change worth have , and that be why we publish the plan . I welcome the statement . Harlow be a town plague by low - pay and insecure work and people be force out of work due to wait for operation . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster describe how the plan will help tackle those issue for resident in my town ? I gently say to the Conservatives when they talk about metric that they be the party that criticise school during their tenure because apparently half the school be below average . my hon . friend be right that when people do the right thing and they go out to work and try to earn a living , they should have a decent reward for what they do . that be why Labour introduce the concept of a national minimum wage in the first place — oppose by the Conservatives , who say it would destroy job — and why the Chancellor announce at the recent Budget a significant increase in that wage so that when people do the right thing , they be reward and can get a decent living for the hard work they do . flexible affordable childcare be a critical part of our economic infrastructure . it give parent more choice over how to organise their life , and it help they return to work if they want to , as well as give child a good start in life . yet nursery in Marple in my Hazel Grove constituency have tell I that the Government ' s increase in national insurance charge will force they to increase cost to family . the Government rightly say they be serious about fix early year provision and tackle the attainment gap for disadvantaged child , so do they plan to exempt early year and nursery setting from their ill - advise hike to national insurance charge ? if the hon . member look at the document , she will find that an expansion of nursery place be in it , because we know it be good for child and for work parent . that be part of the plan we set out today , and part of our plan to ensure that child in early year have the good possible start in life . I can not announce anything far to the Budget on national insurance , but she know the background to why we have to take those decision . listen to Conservative Members , one would think we be leave a golden legacy . despite that halcyon legacy , it be no wonder the Conservatives be resoundingly beat in the last election — my constituent want an NHS that can be rely on , yet Lord Darzi ' s report be clear that we have not sort out the health service or social care . indeed , 13 % of NHS bed be take up by people who could be in social care . will the Minister outline what he will do to ensure that we finally get to grip with that crucial issue ? the legacy of the Conservative Government be not just economic or in policy , but a loss of faith in government ' s ability to do thing . that be part of the backdrop to the plan that we be publish today . I commend Lord Darzi ' s report to anyone who have not read it . it fully set out the legacy in health . we have put get waiting list down at the heart of the plan that we be publish today because that drive the whole system ; if we get they down , we will have a healthy population , more people ready to work , more people to contribute to the country and more people to contribute to our productivity . that be why it be at the heart of the plan . I thank the right hon . gentleman for take the time to come to the House to set out where the milestone be — that be a positive move for a government to make in order to give clarity . however , it would also be incredibly helpful if he set out how he will keep the House update — perhaps on a six - monthly basis — to track the plan ' s development and the Government ' s delivery of it . there be a long time until the next general election , so it would be good to see how the plan be progress throughout this Parliament . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s welcome for the plan , which stand in mark contrast to the scepticism show by his party ' s Front Benchers . he will have plenty of opportunity , now that we have publish the plan , to ask Ministers about these thing as we move forward . we know that they will be challenge to deliver . we have not yet follow the advice of the hon . member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan O ' Hara ) , who suggest that we do this every year , but I be sure that the Ministers in charge of these goal will keep the House regularly update . my constituency see the high price rise in the country back in August , as a direct result of the Conservatives ' opposition to build the house that be clearly so desperately want and need in my constituency . can the Minister assure young people in my constituency , who be desperate to buy their own home , start family and get on with their life , that Labour will deliver for they ? build more house be a challenging thing to do because there be always people who will object and blockage in our planning system , and thing take too long . we have a major planning and infrastructure Bill come in the new year that aim to unblock some of that . we know that the target be challenge , but we must build more house in this country — and not just house , but more infrastructure in order to get the economic growth that we need . it take too long for major investment to happen . I look forward to the conservative party ' s support for our planning and infrastructure Bill when it be introduce in the new year . the Conservative Government brough the NHS to its knee . Theirs be a legacy of crumble hospital , of doctor and nurse work at burnout , and of patient be treat in corridor . the Liberal Democrats welcome the extra investment in the NHS and support the ambition to get waiting list down , but the Government can not fix the NHS without first fix social care . at Winchester hospital — part of the Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust — almost one in five bed be fill by someone who could be care for through the social care package but be stick in a hospital bed . that have the knock - on effect of increase A & E and ambulance waiting time , and of elective surgery be cancel . will the Government review the national insurance increase for social care provider and hospice , and will they commit to cross - party talk so that we can have a long - term plan to fix social care ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , but there be a contradiction at the heart of it . he begin by say he welcome the extra investment in the NHS , and end by say he oppose the national insurance increase that be necessary to fund these thing . as I have say before , people can not support the extra investment we have announce , but oppose every revenue - raise measure that contribute to it — it simply do not work like that . if we want the extra investment , we have to support the revenue - raise measure that make it possible . the plan for change be clear . this government will restore order to the asylum and immigration system , clear the asylum backlog , end the use of hotel , increase return and cut small boat crossing . do the Minister agree that this plan stand in stark contrast to the open border policy that the conservative party subject the country to ? it be strike that when the Conservatives come into power , they begin by promise to reduce net migration to under 100 , 000 , and bequeath we a situation where that figure be 10 time high . this happen on their watch with their policy , and now we be leave to clear up the situation and restore some order to our migration policy . the country will always need migration , but the " plan for Change " document set out what my hon . friend say ; we will reduce net migration and deal with illegal migration in the way she set out . I be very pleased to read that Labour ' s drive be for the work man and woman — that have to be welcome , and I very much welcome the £ 25 billion for the NHS . it would be churlish of I , or of anyone in the House , not to do so . however , the Budget put a question mark over the viability of work farm . it strip pensioner of their winter fuel allowance and put what could possibly be unsustainable pressure on 99 % of microbusinesse and small business in Northern Ireland . that be not help the work man or the work woman . everybody in this House want the Labour party to succeed , for the sake of the country and for its people — actually , I might want it more than most , if I can say that . I once again ask whether the Government will have the strength to acknowledge and put right the wrong call that have be make , to lead this great nation successfully to prosperity with no pensioner , small business or family farm leave behind . I appreciate the spirit in which the hon . Member have ask his question . on farm , as the Chancellor make clear , a couple would have an allowance of £ 3 million before any inheritance obligation kick in , and then it would be at half the rate that other people have to pay , so significant protection be build into the policy . on pensioner , it be very important to remember that we have say we will protect the triple lock , which be reflect in the pension increase that have be announce for next year . after 14 year of repeat break promise , it be hardly surprising that many people be distrustful of politician and the ability of government to do anything positive . do the Minister agree that in set out a clear plan for change , the Government be offer the british people not just the hope of a well future , but clear , measurable metric against which they can be hold to account ? this question of distrust and loss of faith be really important , because after so much chaos in recent year , it be very easy for our constituent to turn off from politic — to think that no Government of any political colour can deliver for they . we be determine not to allow that scepticism to set in and become the norm , so we have set out target . I acknowledge , not for the first time today , that those target be challenge . they be not easy to meet , but progress towards they — with low waiting time , more house build , and the other thing set out in the plan for change document — will show that the Government be try to deliver for people and that politic can bring productive change . that be change worth have . like my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , I welcome these milestone , and I agree with what the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster say about the need to restore trust . how will labour ' s health policy in England differ from those that they pursue in Wales ? I be sure that in every part of the country , government who run the NHS want to see waiting list fall . we put that at the heart of the plan for change today because it drive the whole system , and because the level of satisfaction with the NHS that we inherit be the low ever record . no Government can be content with that ; I can tell the right hon . Gentleman honestly that no Labour Government be content with it . that be why it be an important part of the plan . in West Brom , one issue dominate all else : the fact that people be work hard and hard , but can afford less and less . that be the record of the Conservative party , who crash our economy and oversee the bad cost of live crisis in a generation . can my right hon . friend set out how the plan for change will make ordinary people well off and deliver exactly what people vote for in July ? I very much welcome that question from my parliamentary neighbour . we represent very similar community , and I agree that when people go out to work and do the right thing , they want to be reward , rightly . that be why we protect people ' s payslip in the Budget . it be why we announce an increase in the minimum wage in the Budget . it be why we make sure in the Budget that carer could earn more before lose part of their revenue . we want work to be reward . we be the Labour party ; we be the party of labour . when people do the right thing , they should be treat fairly . the Conservatives have always claim to be the party of law and order , but they take police officer off the street . knife and youth crime , antisocial behaviour and local drug activity be some of the most common complaint in my constituency . I welcome the Labour Government ' s urgent action to recruit more neighbourhood police officer . my right hon . friend know my constituency well , because it adjoin his in Wolverhampton . can he confirm that this action will make a real difference to my constituent ? I welcome the question from my parliamentary neighbour on the other side of my constituency . he be right that people in his constituency and mine care deeply about the safety of their community . they see the cut in police after the conservative party come to power . they see their neighbourhood officer be more and more stretched , try to cover more and more area with not enough officer . it be really important to restore a sense of community police , so that people feel safe in their community and on their street , because that underpin the freedom that people need to live their life . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . when these achievement be reach , the impact on community like mine will be profound . for too long , people have be tell that government do not work . they need to understand that when government be do well , it can and will work . do my right hon . friend agree that the british people need these milestone for progress , after 14 year of milestone of failure ? my hon . friend make a very good point . as I say in my statement , let we consider what the situation would be if we do not do these thing . we would just carry on with the situation that we have , in which , for example , young people work hard and hard and think , " how will I ever get a home of my own ? " , and people wait for nhs treatment be tell that they might have to wait for 18 month or two year . that be too long to wait for treatment . that be why we put those thing at the heart of the document today . it will make a real difference to people ' s life if we manage to meet the milestone . they be challenge , but do this can help drive the system and ensure progress towards our goal . the NHS have long be a top issue raise by local resident when I have be out knock on door across the whole of Filton and Bradley Stoke , so I welcome not only the investment , but the reform alongside that , and these clear milestone for change , which be what the country vote to see . will the Minister give a commitment , on behalf of the Government , that no matter the lack of support from the conservative party , he will persevere with this , as that be what the country want ? I can give my hon . friend that commitment , and I can assure she of the passion that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care feel for this goal , for turn around the system and for reduce waiting list and waiting time . he know how important that be for patient , and for our goal of grow the economy , and that be why the goal be part of the document . I welcome each and every one of the milestone , and the real , tangible difference that they will make to the life of my resident in Rossendale and Darwen . each be a crucial step in the process of mission delivery . I also welcome the recognition that to get they meet , we need to do government differently . devolution and a move away from command - and - control government represent a real opportunity to enable more effective and efficient delivery , and perhaps even restore some of the trust in politic that be so broken and destroy by the conservative party . in Lancashire , we have be hold back by an outdated two - tier local government system . do the Minister agree that it be time for Lancashire leader to come together to grasp the huge opportunity that devolution offer ? as I say , if the goal be to be reach , it will require reform of the state itself , and part of that be about local delivery . there have be a lot of innovation in recent year . we start devolution when we be last in power , and the conservative party take it forward with the creation of a number of mayor around the country . there be furth to go with that . have mayor and strong local leader as partner can really help we to deliver the goal set out in the document . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . he have set out concrete , deliverable and measurable milestone against which the british public can judge we . what a stark contrast to Conservative Front - Bench Members , who still refuse even to acknowledge the Liz Truss economic disaster that be the mini - Budget , and to apologise for it . do my right hon . friend agree that any sort of u - turn that see the Conservatives back our step to restore economic stability be unlikely , and that they will continue to cling to the idea of the magic money tree ? the Conservatives do deliver some thing . they deliver a huge economic crash , a Bank of England intervention in order to prop up the pension system , and significant increase in mortgage rate , which people be still pay today . the most important thing about defeat be to learn from it , and I have to say from observe the conservative party that they be not yet do that . the legacy of 14 year of the Conservatives in government and a century of Tory complacency in Hexham be see in how police number in Prudhoe fall under the last government , and indeed in Callerton and Throckley . they have also fall in our most rural community . rural crime be unfortunately bring up with I regularly . that be an example of how the conservative party have fail to understand the modern countryside . will the Minister outline how this plan will make a measurable change for our rural community , as well as town like Prudhoe ? the goal in this document can make a real difference to rural community . we know that many people in rural community be worried about rural crime , so more neighbourhood policing can help they . we also know that many young people in rural community be wonder how they will ever have a home of their own . that be why we support more house building , as well as short hospital waiting list and neighbourhood police team , as set out in the document . I be the last member to be call , but I will try not to take too long . I welcome the scale of the ambition in the Secretary of State ' s statement , but I challenge what he say about there be only one millstone in the UK . my resident in Edinburgh South West increasingly feel hold back by our incoherent Scottish Government . yesterday be a fine example of that . in the Scottish Parliament , the SNP Government set their budget — one largely fund by the hard work of Scottish Labour mp in this place , who secure the big ever settlement for Scotland . meanwhile , SNP mps in this place vote against our money - raise measure . they want to eat their cake and have it . order . supplementary question should be short and not a speech . perhaps the hon . member would like to come to the conclusion of his question . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be always good to be guide by you . the Secretary of State set out how living standard will increase right across the UK , and Scotland be part of that . how will he work with the Scottish Government and the incoherent SNP Government to do that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out that the recent devolution financial settlement be the big in real term since devolution be introduce , as a consequence of the announcement make by the Labour Chancellor at the Budget . that provide the funding , and it be completely incoherent to welcome that funding — in fact , to run around say that it will be spend on this and that — but then to vote against the revenue measure that contribute to it . if we want increase investment and boost service , we must support the revenue - raise measure that make that possible ; and then we have to combine investment with the reform necessary to deliver . that be the next step . detain british Nationals abroad I beg to move , that this House be concern by the number of arbitrarily detain british national at risk of human right abuse abroad and the apparent lack of active support for those detain ; and call on the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to provide regular report on when it last raise the case of those people with its international counterpart . I be enormously pleased that the Backbench Business Committee agree to find sufficient time to debate this issue . too often , the issue of british citizen detain abroad get wash away in all the other debate , no matter who be in government . as I have say before , regardless of who be sit on the Government Benches — be they conservative , Labour or whatever — I tend to find myself in opposition on issue such as this , as do many member here . we have serious concern that the issue be not raise enough , and case be lock behind a wall of silence . I want to change that today . my intention be to call on the Government , first of all , to provide regular report — something they never do — on when the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office last raise the case of british national who be arbitrarily detain abroad and at risk of human right abuse . individual detain abroad be particularly vulnerable to torture , ill treatment and other serious human right violation from the moment that they be detain . at least 100 UK national be torture or ill treat abroad every year . in 2023 , the fcdo receive 188 new allegation of torture and mistreatment from british national overseas . it go on and on . arbitrary detention and hostage - taking be devastating , but be practise by a number of regime , chief among those be Iran . that be devastating for the individual affect and their family . survivor bear the physical , psychological and socioeconomic scar of their captivity . survivor ' family also endure significant psychological distress , often face vicarious trauma as they fight for their love one ' release and feeling that they be fight a lose battle against even the establishment here in the United Kingdom . the support that the british Government can provide to their national in these harrowing circumstance be crucial . they be sometimes the only link between the individual and the outside world . the right hon . member mention support from the British Government . do he agree that that support be not always as consistent across the globe as we might like and as many member of the public would imagine it to be ? there be no guarantee or legal right impose on the UK Government to do it in the way that there be , for example , on the American Government . do he think that the situation be unsatisfactory and , if so , what do he think the Government should do about it ? I completely agree . I have no problem agree on this matter . it have be a long - stand issue for family and member of Parliament that , somehow , the fcdo put a cloud of obscurity in the way of real knowledge about what be go on . for family , that can be incredibly difficult . the right hon . member may be aware of the case of Alaa Abd el - Fattah , a british national who remain in an egyptian prison . like I , be he very concerned that Mr el - Fattah ' s mother , Laila Soueif , who be 68 year old , be now on the 67th day of a hunger strike ? as I understand it , the Foreign Secretary last raise the case on 14 November . do the right hon . Member agree that more need to be do beyond just raise the case ? I absolutely agree . that case will be raise today . all of we who want to speak in the debate have agree that we will make sure that individual case be raise in detail . I will touch on some to summarise they , and I will detail a couple of they . the hon . Lady be quite right . what have happen be appal , and we need to ensure that more be do — that be critical . those who fall prey to detention be too often let down by british government . I say , without let or hindrance , that that include the Conservative Government who be in office previously , the Labour Governments before that and the present Labour Government . I hope that will now change . the Foreign Secretary recently confirm that there be 28 , 000 prisoner in the system , yet the Foreign Office refuse to disclose exactly how many be british national who be be arbitrarily detain . why not ? what be so ground - shake about discover who the british national be , for goodness ' sake ? I hope the Minister will agree that it be essential that the Government publish datum on the number of british citizen who be arbitrarily detain or hold hostage abroad . sadly , there be british national in arbitrary detention in repressive country all over the world . quite often , we be not aware of they . as I say in response to the hon . Lady , those case will be raise . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , I remind the House that family member be watch this debate from the Gallery . I will quickly name they , if that be all right with everyone here . we be join by Omar Robert Hamilton , Alaa Abd el - Fattah ' s cousin , and Sanaa Seif , Alaa ' s sister . we be join by supporter and family member of Ryan Cornelius . I be deeply sorry that Ryan ' s wife , Heather Cornelius , be unable to join we today , but Ryan ' s brother - in - law , Chris Pagett , and his wife Diana be with we , as well as Ryan ' s sister - in - law , Wendy Thompson , and her husband David . also sit in the Gallery be Matthew Hedges , a victim of arbitrary detention in the United Arab Emirates , and Peter Humphrey , a former prisoner of China . too often , family feel that they be fight two battle : one against the foreign state that have detain their love one , and another against the UK Government , who do not seem to prioritise the case . I be deeply sorry that that should be the case , and today ' s debate be about , hopefully , sow the seed of change . the right hon . Member mention the family who be here today to listen to this debate , and in do so highlight the impact on not just those detain or hold hostage but their loved one , friend and family . I take the opportunity to invite he to recognise the family and friend of british - link hostage hold in Gaza — Oded Lifschitz , Eli Sharabi , Avinatan or and Emily Damari — and their case . I be go to say it , but as the hon . Member have raise it , I will do so now : we must not forget those hostage . what have happen to they be appal , and he be right to raise it . family across the UK listen to this debate will be appreciative of that . a critical issue be the lack of a clear and proactive response strategy from the fcdo . there be no centralised approach for deal with arbitrary detention case , and that absence of structure add to the stress for family , who feel unsupported and often ignore . my right hon . friend ' s point be surely the critical one . traditionally , the good and the bright go into the diplomatic service and the Foreign Office intake , but even the bright people need to specialise if they be to do a good job . give that so many people be be detain in this way , surely the answer be to have a small dedicated unit within the Foreign Office that can handle the co - ordination of a systematic response every time someone be arbitrarily detain abroad . I agree with my right hon . friend . the point I be really get at be that the day of the shift job of generalist be long go , I be afraid . I have often make the case , have run a Department , that the civil service and the Foreign Office need to catch up with what be happen outside . we need specialist in place , and we need that to be consider an important job . in case where british national be detain abroad , the family of those detain have often find the UK Government reluctant to act to prevent torture or to seek accountability where it occur . if they be act , they do not relay that to the family , so the family be leave believe that nothing have happen , even if something have happen . for instance , when Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe , a british - iranian dual citizen , be detain in Iran , her family first raise allegation of torture with the fcdo in 2017 . it be not until May 2021 — follow outside pressure from Redress and other , by way of a submission to the fcdo of a medical report as evidence of her severe suffering — that the then Foreign Secretary , Dominic Raab , an old colleague of ours , acknowledge that she have be a victim of torture . why do it take so long ? it seem to I that this be pointless . in the case of Jagtar Singh Johal , a british national torture by police in India , fcdo official would only raise the allegation of torture with the indian authority once they have seek consent from he directly , which take two to three month . I know that the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) intend to speak about that case , but I just raise it generally as an illustration of what be go wrong . family of detainee face significant challenge in their engagement with the fcdo . many report vague or inconsistent communication , which breed mistrust . there be a critical need for a designate point of contact for family , as happen in the States , to ensure transparency and accountability in the handling of case . without that , family feel abandon by their own government while simultaneously battle the detaining state with few tool . the fcdo also lack a consistent policy on the treatment of dual national , often cite state ' refusal to recognise dual nationality as a barrier to action . that be a practical challenge , not a legal one , and it should not stop UK official from attempt to access prison or court . when the Government fail to act , it risk send a damaging message to dual national that they be less british and , by extension , less deserving of protection . for instance , that reasoning be use very much in the case of Jimmy Lai , who be a british citizen . China decide , because it do not recognise dual nationality , to call he a dual national . he have never be a dual national , and I have lose count of the number of time that I have literally shout at Government Ministers in Westminster Hall that he be not a dual national . when they get up to speak , they just say that he be a dual national . he have never be a dual national . he be a proud british citizen . he get into Hong Kong long before he be of an age to have a nationality in that sense or a passport . he have be a british national non - stop since then . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that it do not matter whether someone be a dual national or not ? if they be british , they be british and they be proud to be british . we should simply talk about they be british citizen , and not even bother talk about dual national . I could not agree more with the right hon . Lady , and I welcome she to the debate as Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . she be absolutely right , but the problem in this case be that dual nationality be use as an excuse for why the Government do not want to raise the matter , because China do not recognise that british citizenship . she be right that if someone be a british citizen , they be a british citizen , and the inside of the passport tell we why that be important . it seem to be ignore too often . we know that sanction be a vital tool for deter and punish state actor involve in arbitrary detention , yet that tool be often underutilise by UK Governments . I will touch on that later , because compare with the Americans , we fail to utilise it as a possible way to leverage change to what be go on outside . another area of concern be the inconsistent application of Government policy regard international legal standard . when the Minister come to the Dispatch Box , will he confirm the Government ' s official definition of arbitrary detention ? how do it align with international legal standard , such as those establish by the United Nations working group on arbitrary detention ? I have never be able to get an answer out of any Foreign Minister yet , but I ask he , give his experience in the Department , to kindly find out the definition for we and let we know . I say I would raise specific case , so I will run through some of the list . Ryan Cornelius be a british citizen unjustly detain in Dubai for more than 16 year , originally in isolation . his case represent an egregious violation of human right and , importantly , of due process . he be arrest in 2008 on false fraud allegation relate to a $ 500 million Dubai Islamic Bank loan , and his 10 - year sentence be extend by 20 year in 2018 through retroactive application of a new law without proper legal proceeding . the bank seize asset worth $ 1 . 6 billion from Mr Cornelius , far exceed the original loan amount . the UN working group on arbitrary detention have rule categorically that Ryan ' s detention be arbitrary and in violation of international law , call for his immediate release and compensation . however , there still appear to be fcdo resistance . Mohammed Ibrahim Al Shaibani become DIB chairman shortly before Mr Cornelius ' s arrest . he appear to have orchestrate Mr Cornelius ' s continued detention and the asset seizure . Mr Al Shaibani hold influential position in Dubai ' s Government , indicate an abuse of power . Mr Cornelius be now 70 and have suffer severe health issue in prison , include tuberculosis that go untreated for 18 month . meanwhile , his seized property , originally claim to be " worthless " by the bank , be now be redevelop as a luxury project call the Acres , worth , strangely , $ 3 billion . under the last government , I raise Mr Cornelius ' s case finally with the former Prime Minister Lord Cameron while he be Foreign Secretary . subsequently , he engage personally in seek clemency for Mr Cornelius . he meet the family , raise the case with the UAE Foreign Minister and write personally to the ruler of Dubai . that be a first , because everybody else seem to have shy away from this one , not want to upset the UAE , it appear . to be fair to Lord Cameron , he get the issue and he start to tackle it , and that be important . the present Foreign Secretary , who replace Lord Cameron in July , fail to raise Mr Cornelius ' s case in his recent visit to the UAE in September , which perplex I , give that it have already be raise . that just encourage a country like the UAE to carry on and to double down . I do not understand why . in response to my write question to the Foreign Secretary , I receive this answer : " the Foreign Secretary raise the importance of consular issue , although not this specific case , during his visit to the UAE on 5 September and first meeting with Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed . " I understand that on Sunday , the Prime Minister be expect to visit the UAE and , I think , Saudi Arabia . will the Minister make it clear to the Prime Minister — I believe this be the view that will be express in this debate — that he must not only raise the case , which be important , but demand categorically that Ryan Cornelius be release into the hand of his family without delay ? I hope that whatever be summarise from his meeting , that specific issue be there in black and white for this House to record . the hon . member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) raise Mr Cornelius ' s case several week ago in an Adjournment debate , when he be reassure by the Minister for Development , the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , that : " the case will continue to be raise with the UAE authority " , — [ Official Report , 19 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 241 . ] and yet it be not . if minister give assurance in this House , Madam Deputy Speaker , do you not agree that they should actually back up those assurance ? I wonder if the Minister present will explain why that be the case . although individual case be raise with international counterpart , often no concrete action follow . I hope the Minister agree that once a case be raise , it will be follow up . in Mr Cornelius ' s case , I believe the path could culminate in sanction , so there be a process . it be clear that raise the case with the UAE authority have yet to produce a result . what we want be a real record that the authority be now be warn that should they fail to take action , individual sanction under the Magnitsky rule will follow . will the Minister therefore now look to impose target Magnitsky sanction on those responsible for Mr Cornelius ' s arbitrary detention and asset seizure ? there be a number of they : his Excellency Mohammed Al Shaibani , who be the chairman of the DIB ; Yahya Saeed Ahmad Nasser Lootah , the vice chairman of the board of director ; Hamad Abdulla rashe Obaid Al Shamsi , who be a board member ; Ahmad Mohammad Saeed Bin Humaidan , a board member ; Abdul Aziz Ahmed Rahma Mohamed Al Muhairi , a board member ; Dr Hamad Buamim , a board member ; Javier Marin Romano , a board member ; Bader Saeed Abdulla Hareb Al Mheiri , a board member ; and Dr Cigdem Kogar , a board member . all be involve in this case ; all be eligible for Magnitsky sanction . Mr Cornelius should now be release immediately , or sanction , I believe , should follow . I will deal reasonably quickly with the case of Jimmy Lai , and then I will give way to other in the debate . Jimmy Lai be a renowned pro - democracy campaigner , journalist and medium owner . I wear the badge to free he with pride . this man have be treat abominably — he be a hero , and we should recognise that . he be 77 and a proud british citizen . he be also a Catholic , and have be deny the normal communion that he would expect as a believer in Catholicism ; it have be shut off from he for a long time , which matter a great deal to he . he be a prisoner of conscience . he could have flee Hong Kong after the sino - british agreement be trash , but he choose to stay . why ? he want to set an example for the many who could not flee and who be go to be arrest — that he be not go to run away just because he have money . this be a brave man . Mr Lai be currently on trial in Hong Kong for alleged offence against national security and alleged sedition , say to arise out of his work as a newspaper publisher and his pro - democracy activism . his case be emblematic of the crackdown on the medium in Hong Kong , civil society and the rule of law . on 15 November 2024 , the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention publish its opinion that Jimmy Lai be be unlawfully and arbitrarily detain and call for his immediate release . the work group find multiple violation of Mr Lai ' s right and freedom , express alarm at his prolong detention in solitary confinement and stress that he should not be on trial at all . this case , I say to the Minister , be very urgent . Mr Lai have be arbitrarily detain in prolong solitary confinement for nearly four year , often in insufferable heat during the summer month . secure Jimmy Lai ' s release require effective action across the Government to bring he home and reunite he with his family in London . at the moment , he be bravely give evidence in his trial — at which , by the way , a number of Members present have be name . I have be apparently name . I be already sanction by the Chinese , but I have also be name as be party to the case be bring against he . I have to say publicly that I have , sadly , never meet Jimmy Lai or correspond with he . I wish that I have . I wish that I could tell he what a brave man he really be . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] will the Minister outline today what urgent step the Foreign Office be take to secure Jimmy Lai ' s release ? I remind the Minister and other that what we see in front of we now be a rise in hostage take by nation state . the big abuser of this process be , of course , Iran . I worry about this abuse grow more and more in Iran . in January 2023 — we must not forget about this — Iran execute british - iranian national Alireza Akbari , who be arrest , charge and execute on spy charge , which he deny and which be totally untrue . it be the first execution of a dual national since the 1980 . only four month later , the iranian authority execute a second dual national , swedish - iranian Habib Chaab . in October 2024 , it execute a third dual national , german - iranian Jamshid Sharmahd . at least one more dual national , swedish - iranian Ahmad Reza Djalia , have be sentence to death since 2023 . I conclude on the simple basis , as I raise at the beginning , that we can no long go along with the idea that we somehow lose influence if we raise these case publicly . we can no long go on with this idea that we can manage a generalist approach to this in the Foreign Office . as have already be raise , we need a much more professional , deliberate and permanent status in the Department to deal with this matter . finally , we have in our hand the Magnitsky sanction legislation . with the case of Ryan Cornelius and other , it be high time that those who be party to the arrest and incarceration of innocent british citizen find themselves face Magnitsky sanction , unless they recant and that individual be release . that at least give we a tool . I ask the Government to get to the Dispatch Box , when the time come , and commit to that process . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure today ' s incredibly important debate , and the Backbench Business Committee for allow we the time to debate it . throughout my time in Parliament , I have see far too many sad and desperate family protest outside the Foreign Office ; go on hunger strike ; stand for election against the Prime Minister , as one of my constituent do in support of Andy Tsege ; singe Christmas carol , as I do outside the Foreign Office in support of Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe ; and organise petition . they do everything they can to get their love one back , believe — rightly or wrongly — that the Foreign Office genuinely do not seem to be do enough , and do not seem to care . the public understandably have huge amount of sympathy for these individual and for the family of those who have be arrest , and I believe the standing of the Foreign Office be undermine as a result . we be tell that the Foreign Office do everything it can , but it need to do most of that quietly and behind closed door , and the difficulty be that it be hard for some family to see the difference between do nothing and perhaps do a great deal . that be the dilemma . when those family see detain people from other country be release — whether those be Canadians , Americans , French or Germans — and the Brits be not , they do wonder whether it be because the Foreign Office be simply not do its job properly . that be the issue . the Minister will be assure that I do not want to spend all the time I have in this debate just moan about the Foreign Office . I have some positive suggestion , which I hope will be take seriously , because I believe that this be an issue on which we could do much well . there be some idea that be currently circulate , and they be not all mine — I be steal other people ' idea and try to put they together in order genuinely to try to help . the first of those idea be that we have to put this in context . there be now many more brit travel all over the world and go to all sort of place — the number be go up all the time — and that be to be encourage . of course , while more brit be travel around the world , we be also in a world where few and few country pay much attention to anything that might be see in any sense as any form of rule of law , so Brits get themselves into terrible trouble and some of they be arbitrarily detain . as I say , I be steal other people ' s idea , so I want genuinely to compliment the previous member of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the problem of arbitrary detention and how to solve people be detain abroad be complex and case that many people have work on , so the work of the previous Select Committee , very ably chair by the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , need to be mention in dispatch . I be proud to be the second female Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I hope that my Committee can meet the standard set by the hon . Lady . the previous Committee ' s report on state hostage taking make recommendation which , have they be implement by the previous Government , would have be very effective in case that have be raise today . chief among they be the recommendation to formalise and publish the criterion for determine whether the detention of a british national by a foreign state be consider arbitrary , and the recommendation to establish a senior position in the Foreign Office solely commit to arbitrary and complex detention . there be example of criterion : the United Nations have criterion and the Americans have criterion . they be different criterion , but they be very interesting and I certainly hope there be someone in the Foreign Office at this moment look at potential criterion and look to draft some . I agree with the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green that it be about time we have establish criterion , so there be a little more transparency on this issue . it be very disappointing that a number of the previous Government ' s Foreign Secretaries disregard and kick into the long grass the recommendation set out by the Committee . it do not have to be that way . I be encourage that the Labour party have , since October last year , be committed to have a special envoy for UK citizen seize abroad . last week , in front of my Committee , with Sebastien Lai and Sanaa Seif sit behind he , my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary reconfirm his commitment to that . I be encourage to see that the labour manifesto go far than the previous Foreign Affair Committee ' s recommendation on consular access . labour pledge to ensure the legal right to consular access and I certainly hope the Government will deliver on that , but we must act quickly because the like of Alaa and Jimmy and their family can not , and should not , have to wait any long . I therefore call on the Government to be clear in their timeline for implement those promise . have think about that , and have meet family of a number of those detain , I think we should institute an office in the Foreign Office that be commit to arbitrary detention which establish proper criterion for categorise someone as wrongfully detain . as soon as someone be arrest , the local consular office should inform the Foreign Office , which should apply the criterion to the case and make recommendation to the Foreign Secretary . it would then be up to the Foreign Secretary to decide whether that case would be give the benefit of the special envoy , who would then take leadership of the case . there will not be many of they , but those determine as victim of arbitrary detention will be very special case , and will have the sort of resource and focus that they need and deserve . it will be the job of the envoy to get their prisoner out , first and foremost , use all the lever of the state . they should be give permission to think laterally and be creative , and to think of every way we can ensure we get our british citizen out . it will also be their job to keep in close , active and respectful contact with the family , so that they know what be go on . I know that a number of people have concern . I have hear the counter - argument and I understand they , but if we look at what the Americans be do , many of those concern may be allay . let we look at what be go on at the moment in the United States . I be grateful to the official from the United States Office of the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs who speak with I at some length yesterday . I find the conversation I have with they as enlightening as I do inspire . I want to go into that in some depth , because I want to enlighten and inspire member who be listen to the debate today , so that they will agree with I and continue to put pressure on the Foreign Office to get on with thing . the office be base in the US State Department . it deal with about 35 to 45 wrongful detention case a year , as well as the more black - and - white case of US citizen take hostage by the like of isis . the office be responsible , in collaboration with other Departments , for make recommendation , on the basis of 11 criterion , on whether an individual ' s detention be arbitrary . the recommendation be make to the Secretary of State , who remain responsible for sign off each individual case . it be a civil servant - lead unit that apply the criterion , but with ministerial oversight . the team be about 30 people . there be expert in negotiation , expert on a specific region and expert in support family . within those team be people whose sole role be family engagement , include train psychologist . in much the same way as the police in this country , where victim of crime will have a dedicated family liaison officer in really serious case , one main function of the office be to support the family . in our discussion yesterday , they tell I that within hour of a US citizen be categorise as wrongfully detain , the special envoy call the family of the individual to introduce themselves and explain the next step . the envoy or his staff then remain the direct contact with family member , provide they with regular update and answer question they may have , include answer the phone at eleven o ' clock at night to calm down a parent who fear they will never see their child again . we need to do thing well . the Foreign Office ' s communication with family be not good . in my belief , it be clearly inadequate . as Laila Soueif tell the medium , she think she be be ignore by the Foreign Secretary since he have take up the post . I should make it clear that I be glad that he have since have time to see the family , but the message can not be send out that the Foreign Secretary be simply too busy to meet detainee ' family . it make those family feel ignore and feel that the Government do not really care . the reason that family want to see the Foreign Secretary be that that be the good way for they to get reassurance that the Foreign Office be pay attention . they should not need to see the Foreign Secretary if they be be look after properly by a specially dedicated team whose only job , other than ensure that the family be reassure and keep in the loop on what be go on , be to get their love one out . I know the Foreign Office remain committed to the release of all arbitrarily detain individual , but even the perception that they be not do all they can to get someone release be not only incredibly distress to a family who have already suffer such unimaginable pain , but damage the credibility of the diplomatic service , the Foreign Office and the Government as a whole . none of we should want that . quite simply , we should not look like we be incompetent , incapable or uncaring . I be also tell that the moment a Secretary of State declare a case to be one of arbitrary detention , the SPEHA team kick the whole Government system in motion to work on the case . they work across Government Departments , as well as with Congress , external organisation , private industry and the medium , immediately gather a strong team effort to begin put sustained pressure on to the country hold their citizen . a key point that strike I from my conversation with they be that without an office solely focus on these case , the team simply do not come together . in my discussion with british detainee and campaign group , I have hear one major concern for year , which be the UK Government ' s lack of cohesion on these case . let I give a recent example . why do the Department for Business and Trade organise an industry delegation to Cairo in June 2024 , and UK Export Finance help host an Egypt - UK investment opportunity forum in London in September , all while the egyptian Government have one of our citizen , Alaa Abd el - Fattah , wrongfully hold in prison without consular access ? who think that through ? do anybody think that through ? or be it one of those thing that , because there be not a focus , just happen ? I suspect that it be the latter and that be why we have to change . I be fully committed to this Government ' s rigorous focus on grow the economy , and I support the building of a prosperous UK - Egypt trade partnership . it be so important that we get investment into this country . but I wonder what mixed signal we be send . what leverage do we have when one Department be criticise a government for detain our citizen , while another Department be also try to encourage british business to invest and form partnership in that country ? what message be that send to a detainee ' s family ? when I raise this question with the Americans , and ask they , " do you not step on the toe of ambassador ? how do you not send out mixed message ? " , they be keen to stress that it actually make life easy for the ambassador , because they be there as the hard cop . they be there as almost a self - contain unit . their job be to get people out , and that be what they do : they pull the lever together in order to ensure that they do . they describe ambassador as their secret weapon , expert on the country who know the key player and , most important , know what idea would work . they say that they be there to remove the " boulder " when ambassador have to deal with case of this kind , because it take up so much bandwidth that the poor ambassador can not deal with other issue . obviously they will still give advice , but there be that special team to deal with arbitrarily detain people so that the ambassador can get on with our financial relationship with Europe . I believe that if we have a similar unit in the Foreign Office , the Foreign Office would be more effective , and it would be of great assistance to the Foreign Secretary , who can not give his full attention to these uniquely complex case . it would also give the family a senior point of contact on which they could rely . the american unit have the power to impose specific sanction , through the Levinson Act , that target those who be responsible for , or complicit in , the unlawful or wrongful detention of US national . we should be make well use of our sanction policy to deter the wrongful detention of british people , or as a tool to apply pressure to those who hold british national . I have even hear story of jailer be sanction . this can be do by those who be sufficiently ambitious , can think laterally and have the necessary focus . if we have well parliamentary scrutiny of our sanction policy , perhaps we would make well use of it , but that be a debate for another day . perhaps we simply do not know how the Government decide what case warrant sanction . however , the whole - government approach , use the embassy in the country , the regional expert in the State Department and the negotiation expert in SPEHA , strike I as absolutely the right approach . I think it be a lesson that we should learn from the Americans , and I hope that the Foreign Office take this recommendation seriously , because it be about time we change thing . we can not go on like this . I do not want to see anyone else outside the Foreign Office starve themselves in the hope that , somehow or other , that will help their son or daughter to come back to this country , so I say , " please focus on this , and please sort it out . " I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on secure the debate , and on the tremendous amount of work that he have do in this area . it be also a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for South Islington and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , which I have be delighted to join as a new member in the last few week . I be pleased to be able to say that I think she make an excellent contribution , and I agree with every word of it . I also join she in recognise the amount of work that be do by the previous Committee in the last Parliament , under the chairmanship of my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , who continue to chair the all - party parliamentary group on arbitrary detention and hostage affair and to take a strong interest in the subject . the APPG produce an extremely good report , although I have to say that the Government response be a bit disappointing , so it be right for we to press these matter far today . I myself chair the all - party parliamentary group on media freedom . medium freedom be also under huge pressure across the globe : far too many journalist have die in pursuit of their profession , or be currently in prison . accord to the late report , 546 journalist and medium worker be detain as of today . the UK have rightly champion the cause of medium freedom , especially in the Foreign Office , and we need to go on make that case . it be doubly concern that some of the journalist who be in prison be british . my right hon . friend have mention a few specific case , and I want to do the same . both he and I be privileged to attend the Magnitsky award dinner a couple of week ago . Bill Browder , now Sir William Browder , have do a huge amount , initially to support prisoner in Russia and to bring sanction against those responsible for the death of Sergei Magnitsky , but he have widen his campaign to highlight case of detain political prisoner around the world . in respect of the first case I shall mention , I be able to congratulate the Government on the part that they play . at the dinner , it be a privilege to meet Vladimir Kara - Murza . I have raise his case in the House , and many other people have do so over the last few year . we be seriously worried , particularly after the death of Alexei Navalny , that Kara - Murza would be next . there be certainly evidence to suggest that he would have die have he remain in prison , and I know that the British Government , along with the American Government and other , do a great deal to obtain his release through a prisoner swap that take place a few month ago . I have some concern about the concept of prisoner swap , because there be always the risk that carry out a swap to obtain the release of innocent people in return for send back people who be certainly not innocent — which be what happen in this instance — simply encourage the detention of other innocent in the future . in Kara - Murza ' s case , however , I think that have he not be release he would have die . the release at the same time of Evan Gershkovich , an american journalist , be clearly another strong priority . it be welcome that here be a case in which we have actually obtain the release of a british national , but sadly a number of other be still in prison . my right hon . friend mention several of they , but I will start , as he do , with the case of Jimmy Lai , a remarkably brave man who be now detain under the draconian national security law that have be introduce in Hong Kong . it be noticeable that , just two decade ago , Hong Kong be 18th in the world ranking for press freedom ; it be now 135th . Jimmy Lai be a publisher who work to uphold freedom of speech ; he be imprison as a result , and his health be now under severe pressure after four year in solitary confinement . I have meet his son Sebastien , as have the Foreign Secretary , and we will continue to raise his case here until he be release . there have also be reference to Alaa Abd el - Fattah . like a number of other member , I be able to speak to his mother , Laila Soueif , very recently . she be on a hunger strike to obtain his release . he have be convict of spread false news , and have be a long - stand target of the regime . it be notable that , in opposition , the Foreign Secretary be very vocal in condemn the egyptian Government in respect of his case , and actually call on the Government to deny the egyptian ambassador access to Whitehall until he be release . I have not observe the egyptian ambassador be deny access , and Alaa Abd el - Fattah be still in prison . I therefore ask the Foreign Secretary to reflect on what he say in opposition , and to strengthen the progress that we be make . the third case that I want to mention be that of a british journalist who be not in prison . Clare Rewcastle Brown , an independent journalist , have be the target of abusive lawsuit in Malaysia since she expose corruption there . this year she be sentence , in absentia , to two year in prison on a bogus defamation charge , have not even be tell that she have be put on trial . obviously she be anxious to appeal , but she have be tell that if she be to appeal , she must attend the court in Malaysia in person . very understandably , she be extremely reluctant to do so , give the amount of personal risk . the Government , as far as I be aware , have not comment on her case , and she have struggle to obtain support from the Foreign Office , so I ask the Minister specifically to look into her case as well . there be also the case of Gubad Ibadoghlu , an Azeri activist but one who be a senior adviser at the London School of Economics . he return to visit his family in Azerbaijan in 2023 , and be promptly arrest and lock up . his family be quite badly assault during his arrest , and my right hon . friend and I , and any other who be at that dinner a couple of week ago , will have hear his daughter speak about that and about her fear for his health . he , too , be seriously ill and need assistance . on that point , it be worth mention that Dr Ibadoghlu ' s son visit Parliament a few week ago , when we have an opportunity to discuss his case . he have a close association with part of the University of London , and he be give assurance that it would be safe for he to return to visit his ail mother . subsequent to his arrest , a phd student , whose name be Fazil Gasimov , be extradite from Turkey and torture into give evidence against Dr Ibadoghlu , and he have feel it necessary to go on hunger strike . there seem to be a huge effort by the Azeri Government to persecute people , even at the same time as a COP meeting be schedule to take place in their capital . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend , who make the point that I be just come to . as the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee point out , all too often one part of Government may be press for somebody ' s release while other part of Government seem to have a normal relationship with the foreign Government responsible and do little . we manage to send many delegate to COP29 — I can not remember how many there be , but it be certainly in three figure — but I would be interested to know how many of they actually raise with the Government in Baku the case of Dr Ibadoghlu . I and a number of other write to the Prime Minister before he depart for Baku , urge he to raise that case . I understand from the Foreign Office that he do not raise it with his host . I be very disappointed to hear that but , sadly , not surprised . I think I add my name to the letter that my right hon . Friend send . in fairness to the Government , I have reason to believe that one of the Foreign Office Ministers be very concerned about the case . I think there be a high probability that it may have be raise quietly , if not publicly . let we not argue about whether or not it be raise . let we agree that what we should do be continue to raise it with the Government of Azerbaijan until Dr Ibadoghlu be release . the final case that I must mention , give that it be raise , quite rightly , by the hon . member for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , be that of Emily Damari , one of the hostage be hold in Gaza , who be a british citizen . she be 28 and have be hold for 425 day . her mother be obviously deeply anxious to know that she be still alive , so the Government must do everything possible to try to obtain her release . I know that other member intend to raise other case . it be sad that so many british citizen be detain arbitrarily on trump - up charge around the world , and that this debate be so vital and necessary . I will finish by endorse some of the recommendation make by the Foreign Affairs Committee in the last Parliament , which have be echo by its current Chair . a legal right to consular access be very important , and be something that the Labour party say it would bring in . we raise that legal right with the Foreign Secretary the other day , and I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm that the Government still intend to introduce it . I agree with hon . member include the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee that the establishment of a separate directorate for arbitrary and complex detention within the fcdo would be a really valuable addition . there be confusion at the moment , because all too often we be tell that case be be pursue , but nothing happen . unfortunately , with the single exception of Vladimir Kara - Murza , all too many of those case involve british national who continue to be unfairly and unjustly imprison , sometimes at risk to their life . I look forward to the Minister ' s response on those point . I congratulate the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on secure this debate , and on continue to be a discomfort in the derri è re for successive government on these issue . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) talk about the bright and the good go into the Foreign Office , so I will begin by recognise the unfairness of this debate . we will all stand up and talk about the bad failing of the Foreign Office , and I recognise that the debate will be respond to by a Minister who represent some of the good effort of civil servant , who go into incredibly dangerous and difficult circumstance to try to serve our constituent . I want to put that on the record . there be a lot of talk in this Chamber about the legacy that this Government have inherit , and it be good that we be talk about one of the bad one : our country ' s record of secure the release of those who have be arbitrarily detain overseas . I will come to some of the policy issue that other member have touch on , but I will deal first with the principle behind such case . Ella Wheeler Wilcox write : " to sin by silence , when we should protest , make coward out of man . " what be true of individual be also true of nation . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , speak about the example of the US , which be relevant here . when other country ' citizen be hold unjustly , it be treat as an affront , an injury to all and a national slap in the face . yes , quiet negotiation take place politely behind the scene on behalf of those country ' prisoner , but alongside that polite and patient diplomacy be their citizen ' full - throate outrage . I know that the staff work on this issue in the Foreign Office care deeply about it , but the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green and for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) both raise the case of Jimmy Lai . we have to ask why Canada be successful in secure the release of the two Michaels , and how Australia secure the release of journalist Cheng Lai . just last week , the Americans secure the release of three more of their citizen , yet Jimmy Lai , who be a british citizen and one of we , and who have be arbitrarily detain in solitary confinement for nearly four year , have not be free . we could talk about Jagtar Singh Johal , Alaa Abd el - Fattah and so many other . our first responsibility as a Parliament , a Government and a country be to be publicly , vocally and unanimously furious about this issue . everything else follow from the righteous anger that we should all feel on behalf of our citizen who be rot in foreign jail . that anger should drive we to ask what be behind the failure of british diplomacy in the past . a lack of strategy be certainly part of the answer . like the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , I be encourage by the noise that the Foreign Secretary make last week about make good on his promise , both on the issue of a special envoy and on the right to consular access . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to step up the engagement on these case , but that need to be part of an entirely new approach . I be not naive : I know that it be only because we be have conversation with foreign government about trade that we be able to get in the room and discuss our citizen who have be unjustly detain . indeed , when I be an adviser in the Foreign Office , the role of Minister for trade and human right be a stand - alone Cabinet position . because I believe we must make deal around the world — our constituent ' standard of living depend on it — I question whether our current policymake framework on arbitrary detention can ever deliver the kind of response that we would all expect if we find ourselves in a prison cell in one of the dark corner of the world . for I , this be about the balance we strike between charming and chastise those we be negotiate with . I wonder whether our current approach to those who be arbitrarily detain make it inevitable that attempt to secure the release of our people become either a prologue or an epilogue to the main story , which be one of secure our economic self - interest . be we send our representative into these negotiation with red line that those on the other side of the table know be write in pencil rather than in pen ? after 16 year in a Dubai jail , Ryan Cornelius have have more time than anyone to contemplate that tension . he share with I a letter he have write to the Prime Minister ahead of the Prime Minister ' s trip to the Gulf on behalf of the UK , in which he identify the inherent challenge in diplomacy I describe : " make it clear to your interlocutor that there can be no normal relationship with a friendly country which treat our citizen in this way may be an uncomfortable thing for you to do on this visit … if you look the other way in the interest of seal a few deal you will have diminish this country ' s stand in the eye of the rest of the world . " for I , Mr Cornelius ' s letter get to the heart of the matter . in ask our delegation and diplomat to balance arbitrary detention against trade outcome , the risk be that they will leave those room have fail to achieve either objective . if the arbitrary imprisonment and mistreatment of our citizen be not a red line , what be ? if it be a red line , it can not be something that the people we send into these room might have to give up in order to secure other government priority . the release of our people must be understand by those on the other side of the table as non - negotiable . that be why it be essential that any special envoy we appoint have the power , the status and the degree of independence from Ministers to make it an immutable principle not just that the policy on the release of hostage will not be sacrifice for other priority , but that it can not be sacrifice for other priority . my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury , the Chair of the Select Committee , be far too delicate , perhaps not want to appear engage in a power grab , when she say that this be a debate for another time , but we have to debate the fact that other jurisdiction place the power for designate state hostage , or for apply sanction in response to such case , in the hand of the legislature . the value of such an approach be that it allow the Executive and their diplomat to honestly say in those negotiate room that they can not separate their wide relationship with a country from the mistreatment of citizen by its Government . I know that the suggestion of lose such power would be greet with horror in the corridor of King Charles Street , but we can not simply continue with the current model , which have leave british citizen in jail . as well as great independence in policymake , there should also be a degree of automaticity in our policy response . as have be suggest by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green , when an individual be designate as be arbitrarily detain , there have to be a consistent application of Magnitsky sanction . this would not only provide an incentive to release the british citizen already hold , as it would hold perpetrator to account , but it would also act as a disincentive to those who might target our people in the future . inconsistent action in these case simply embolden those regime and make our citizen less safe . finally , we have to act in concert with like - minded country that be similarly committed to the rule of law . recent year have see the erosion of norm around arbitrary detention by autocracy that be increasingly work in concert with each other . only co - ordinate action by democracy , and by those commit to the rule of law , can help recreate a global order in which such action be deem universally unacceptable . there be no cause more urgent than ensure the liberty and freedom of our own citizen . I commend the right hon . gentleman for secure this debate . I , too , wish to thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure this debate . it be hearten to see that finally , the plight of arbitrarily detain UK national have be give long - overdue attention . for transparency , I put on record that I be vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on arbitrary detention and hostage affair , which be brilliantly chair by the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , who I know well from my day on the Foreign Affairs Committee . she be ably support by Baroness Kennedy and the hon . member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) . the APPG give the family of those hold abroad a voice and an opportunity to tell their story directly to member of both Houses . although people ' s story differ markedly in the circumstance of their detention , there be a striking similarity in how they feel about how they have be treat , and about be let down by successive United Kingdom Governments . follow the APPG ' s inaugural meeting , we launch an inquiry on why that perception exist among those who be or have be arbitrarily detain and their family , give they a voice that they have hitherto simply not have . I put on record my sincere thank to Emily Foale of the International Bar Association ' s Human Rights Institute , which provide the APPG ' s secretariat and have be the drive force behind our inquiry . I urge all member and Ministers to read the report when it be publish . at our first evidence session , we hear from Jimmy Lai ' s son Sebastien , and his lawyer Caoilfhionn Gallagher KC , as well as from Ambassador James Cunningham , the former US consul general to Hong Kong . I know that they will be listen to today ' s debate and will be extremely grateful to every single Member who raise Jimmy ' s case this afternoon . our second evidence session , hold last week , be devoted to the case of Alaa Abd el - Fattah , the british Egyptian dual national who have spend most of the last decade in an egyptian prison for his writing on democracy and human right . Alaa become a british national in 2021 through his mother , who be bear in London . however , the egyptian authority have refuse to recognise his UK nationality and have therefore deny he the UK consular access to which he be absolutely entitle . Alaa be due to finish his late five - year sentence on 29 September , but in an unprecedented twist and a clear violation of both international and egyptian domestic law , the authority in Cairo refuse to release he , declare that the two - and - a - bit year that he spend in pre - trial detention would not count towards his sentence , and that he will be keep in prison until 2027 . in protest , as we have hear , his 68 - year - old mother , Laila Soueif , begin a hunger strike . today mark the 67th day of her hunger strike . I be delighted that Laila ' s daughter and Alaa ' s cousin Omar be in the Gallery . such be their determination that Laila and Omar attend our second inquiry session last week to give their account of what be happen to Alaa . they feel that he have be let down by successive british government . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) have secure an Adjournment debate on this topic today , and I be sure that he will build a formidable case for the UK Government do much more to secure Alaa ' s release . rather than make an identical contribution to the hon . Gentleman ' s , I will use my time to share some of what Alaa ' s mother and cousin say to our inquiry last week . as I have say , one of the big blow to the family be Egypt ' s decision not to release Alaa when his sentence be spend . when I ask the family how they think the UK Government have react , Alaa ' s mother say : " I get the impression that they hadn ' t register the fact that Alaa have actually finish his sentence , even though I make sure to notify the British Government two month before . . . it be as if they hadn ' t actually register the significance of this date . " Alaa ' s cousin Omar add : " on July the 8th , I send an email congratulate the Foreign Secretary on his appointment . . . and then say the fear now be that the egyptian Government wasn ' t go to release he " . he continue : " then , on the 25th of September , the Foreign Secretary meet with the egyptian Foreign Secretary for the first time publicly , and there be a picture of they smile together . . . four day before the release date on 29th of September . " it really be not a good look for the Foreign Secretary to have pose for photograph with his egyptian counterpart four day before a UK national — a human right activist — be due to be release from prison , and after be warn that move be afoot to detain he illegally . Alaa ' s mother say , " we warn they " . she say : " we do warn they that it might happen , when we warn they that this date be come up " . when ask about Alaa ' s reaction to all this , she say : " he be disappoint very much by the behaviour of the British Government . you sort of expect the egyptian government to do atrocious thing . the fact that the british Government swallow they be not good . " much of the family ' s criticism of successive UK government relate to the way that the same approach be take time and again , regardless of who be in office . as Laila say , " four successive UK Prime Ministers , include Keir Starmer , have call for Alaa ' s release , but none have take any action beyond ' raise the case ' . " she be absolutely right ; that be a very valid point . the impression , rightly or wrongly , be that awkward human right conversation be have , and there be much shuffling of foot and a few embarrassed platitude be exchange , before the discussion on trade take place . one have to wonder how far that observation be from reality . what the family want — not just Alaa ' s family , but all the family we have speak to — be a " whole government " approach , not just to secure Alaa ' s release , but to ensure that if something like this happen again , any regime arbitrarily detain a UK national will understand that there will be serious consequence . they want the UK to send a clear signal that normal bilateral relationship will not apply . we have to make those relationship a lot more difficult , and be clear that there be certain thing that the UK Government can do but will not do , and can give but will not give , because of the regime ' s behaviour . in the case of Egypt , that " whole government " approach would include change the travel advice , and warn UK national travel to Egypt that consular assistance can not be guarantee if a citizen be arrest . as former british diplomat James Lynch tell our inquiry last week , " the US Embassy have on its advice , a warning that it may have a limit ability to provide consular service in case of arrest or detention . " More than 100 member of both Houses write to the Government to suggest that they do the same , because tourism from the United Kingdom make up 1 % of egyptian gdp . the Egyptians look closely at fcdo travel advice , and they would certainly take notice of UK travel advice if it change to be in line with what the Americans have do . as we have hear many time this afternoon , and as we have hear from the family , the UK have leverage , but unlike other country , it be reluctant or unwilling to use it to secure the release of arbitrarily detain national . if the UK be to be take seriously in this arena , it will have to use leverage and adopt a " whole government " approach , which include trade . People in Cairo believe that there be an Egypt - UK trade summit in the pipeline . the UK trade envoy recently visit Egypt , and there be a significant trade delegation from Egypt to the UK in September , which include the Ministers for finance and trade , as well as the deputy governor of the central bank . be Alaa ' s case raise ? I strongly suspect not , but it could and should have be . be the egyptian ambassador summon by the fcdo when Alaa ' s release date be change ? he should have be , but I strongly suspect that he be not . in short , Alaa and his family feel badly let down by this and previous UK government . in opposition , the now Government say all the right thing , but when in power , they have prove to be just as ineffective as the last Government . I have no doubt that the Minister and the Foreign Secretary be sincere in what they have say , so that tell I that there be something fundamentally wrong with the system . that system might work for Government , but it do not work for people in their hour of great need . that have to change . I give the last word to Alaa ' s mother Laila , who tell our inquiry : " if the government think it ' s risk problem with Egypt by push to let Alaa out , it be risk the same problem in a different way by not push . we be go to do our good to embarrass this government and to embarrass british company who be invest in Egypt if Alaa be not let out . I be sorry to say this , but if thing go as far as I collapse and die , it be embarrass universally . the good - case scenario for they be to get this resolve any way they can . " I sincerely hope that the Minister take note . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for bring the debate to the House . I want to talk about Jagtar Singh Johal , a Sikh activist and blogger from Dumbarton in Scotland . he be not a constituent of mine , but very soon after I be elect as the MP for Wolverhampton West , I receive many email from my constituent raise concern about his detention in India , which have be ongoing for seven year . my constituency may have one of large Sikh population in the United Kingdom , but a lot of the email that I receive be from non - Sikhs . that show that people , whoever they be , wherever they be , be concerned about human right breach . Jagtar be a british citizen who travel to India in October 2017 to get marry , and it be say that three week later he be abduct by plain - clothe police officer , who torture he with electricity to get a false confession link he to an alleged conspiracy to murder . over time , further charge be add , some as lately as 2021 . Jagtar continue to be hold in a Delhi jail . in November 2021 , a United Nations work party state that Jagtar have be arrest because of his Sikh activism , and in May 2022 , a UN working group on arbitrary detention find that Jagtar ' s detention be arbitrary under international law and lack any legal basis , and that his fair trial right have be gravely violate . UN expert call for Jagtar Johal to be release immediately . the campaign seek Jagtar ' s release have receive cross - party support from mps in this House . in July 2023 , 100 parliamentarian write to the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , ask he to call for Jagtar ' s release when he travel to India for the G20 summit . leader of both the Labour and conservative party have previously suggest that there be no legal basis for Jagtar ' s detention , which be arbitrary , and moreover , that this Government must act decisively to negotiate his release . I particularly commend the Prime Minister for raise Mr Johal ' s case with Prime Minister Modi in India on 18 November , and our Foreign Secretary for meet Mr Johal ' s brother , his MP and the NGO Reprieve to discuss Mr Johal ' s case on 30 October . we need to do more . what have happen to Jagtar Johal be against all the rule of natural justice . we have a british citizen who , by all consensus , have be detain in a foreign jail arbitrarily for seven year . we be therefore right to be concern and right to want to know what be be do to secure his release . we have a right to know on a regular basis what be happen with Jagtar Johal . I congratulate the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for bring the matter forward and , as he do so often in the House , for set the scene clearly , clinically and evidentially . today ' s debate be happen thank to his request to the Backbench Business Committee and we be pleased about that . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) . I will speak about Jagtar Singh Johal as well , and it would be remiss of we in this House not to recall the effort of Martin Docherty - Hughes , who be the MP for Mr Johal ' s constituency and who valiantly fight the case throughout the time he be here . there be not a time in the week or month that he do not bring it up . he certainly do his bit with dedication and commitment . it be frustrating that after this period of time , we still see little headway . I rise today to highlight an urgent and deeply troubling matter that strike at the heart of what we stand for as a nation : the unjust detention of british citizen abroad for their belief . those individual embody the value of freedom , justice and dignity , and their plight call for nothing less than our unwavere solidarity and absolute action . just last week during oral question , I ask the Foreign Secretary whether a section should be set aside within the fcdo task specifically with look at this matter — it be after a question pose by right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green — and he give an indication that he be consider that . can the Minister give we more information on where we be with that ? the clear and strong indication from the Foreign Secretary on that day be that that would happen . if it happen , it would follow on from what the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) refer to as well . what she request would be incredibly helpful . if there be a section , it could take up the case of british citizen . quite honestly , a british passport have to mean something more than a bit of paper that I carry in my inside pocket everywhere I go . it mean something for our right , our citizenship and our protection under the citizenship of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I will begin with the harrowing case of Jagtar Singh Johal , the young british citizen from Dumbarton . in 2017 , he travel to India to celebrate his wedding , with all the joy that occasion would give , only to find himself abruptly detain . I talk to Martin Docherty - Hughes about it , who be a fount of knowledge on the case and always give we the detail on his contact with the family . since then , Mr Johal have endure more than seven year of imprisonment under charge that credible source indicate be baseless . allegation of torture during his detention far compound the gravity of the case . it be clear that Mr Johal ' s activism for Sikh human right have make he a target . I declare an interest as the chair of the APPG for international freedom of religion or belief , which stand up for those with christian faith , those of other faith and those with no faith . we be fortunate within the APPG to have a number of Sikhs , and we stand side by side with they on their right to human right and on issue of persecution . the treatment of Mr Johal be not just a tragedy for he and his family ; more than that , it be an affront to the very principle of justice and human right that we cherish in this House and of which every one of we will speak highly and sincerely today . his situation also underscore systematic failure in the protection of british national abroad . the prolonged inaction have leave his family and the whole Sikh community across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to grapple with unimaginable anguish . that can not stand . I know the Minister have be in place for only the last five or six month , but in that time he have make a reputation of be one who have a deep interest in these matter and who look to find a way forward . no pressure on you , Minister , but in all honesty , we be look for something fairly edible at the end of this so that we actually have an idea of just where we be go . I urge the Foreign Secretary and the Minister to use every diplomatic tool available , from public advocacy to behind - the - scene negotiation , to ensure Mr Johal ' s release and to secure accountability for those responsible for his abuse . I turn my attention to Jimmy Lai , about whom I have speak on a number of occasion , as have many other . he be a british citizen and it be clearly underline that his passport be a british passport . he be a devout roman Catholic who represent the courage of stand for democracy in the face of tyranny . a founder of the pro - democracy newspaper Apple Daily , Mr Lai have long be a vocal advocate for press freedom and human right in Hong Kong . we salute he and we acknowledge his courage . I have never meet Mr Lai , but there be many people in the world I have not meet and it do not stop I speak up for they . it do not stop we revere their name in this House and state their right to have the freedom and liberty that we enjoy . Mr Lai now find himself in prison under the draconian national security law impose by Beijing , face charge of collude with a foreign country — my goodness — and conspiracy to defraud . those be vague accusation with no evidential basis whatsoever , wield to silence dissent and suppress freedom . Jimmy Lai ' s imprisonment be emblematic of the broad erosion of civil liberty in Hong Kong , a region where promise of autonomy and democratic right under the sino - british joint declaration be be systematically dismantle . how tragic it be to watch what be go on . his willingness to stay in Hong Kong despite escalating provocation and persecution speak volume about his commitment to the principle he hold dear . I ask all member of this House : would you have have the strength of character to have do the same , know what be come down the road towards you ? his willingness to stay in Hong Kong can not be underline enough . the House must unequivocally condemn the action of the chinese authority and demand Mr Jimmy Lai ' s immediate release . freedom of religion and belief be important . the case of Jimmy Lai be illustrative because they do not have to , but the chinese authority have lock he away from any involvement with his faith . he can not receive communion and he can not give confession . for those who do not believe in it , I note that that really be powerful for a Catholic . he have have to endure that , which , although petty and pointless , be a way of try to break he . would the hon . gentleman like to comment on that ? I bring the case up in Westminster Hall . Jimmy Lai be deny the Eucharist when it be his right to practise his religious belief . when there be that attack on someone ' s religious belief , along with persecution , human right abuse and the denial of that very right , we thank God that Jimmy Lai have that relationship with God in heaven . he may not have the Eucharist , but he have a great faith , which hopefully will strengthen he . however , when someone want to outwardly express themselves and be deny that — that be what the right hon . Gentleman be refer to — that be totally wrong . the Chinese Government , particularly those in Hong Kong , should be criticise for the way that they have deny Jimmy Lai his right . furthermore , we must act to ensure that the international community do not normalise the repression of freedom in Hong Kong . the case of Mr Johal and Mr Lai be not isolate . they reflect a troubling global trend where authoritarian regime act with impunity to silence voice of dissent . whether they be target activist , journalist or those practise their faith , these regime seek to erode the very freedom that form the bedrock of a just society . I be remind of Amanda Damari , who I think be a british passport holder . her daughter , Emily , be kidnap by Hamas terrorist . I meet Amanda just after Easter when I be on a visit to Israel . I be incredibly impressed by her courage and determination to see her daughter once again . I believe that we , in this House , have a duty to fight Amanda Damari ' s case for the release of her daughter . the United Kingdom have a moral and diplomatic duty to lead by example . word of condemnation , as important as they be , be not enough . I call on the Government to do three thing : prioritise these case in all diplomatic , bilateral and multilateral engagement ; explore the application of target sanction against individual and entity involve in these human right violation ; and advocate for strong mechanism of accountability at forum such as the United Nations and the Commonwealth . we can not always fight battle on our own , but we can fight they well together . I urge that we do so in a positive way . we must also be mindful of the human story behind these injustice . we try to express the human story behind each one of these case in the way that we can , but perhaps we do so without use the individual knowledge that we have . Jagtar Singh Johal be a husband , a son and a brother . Jimmy Lai be a father and a tireless advocate for freedom . Amanda Damari just want her daughter home . both those man be people of faith , and so too be Amanda . their family bear the heavy burden of wait , hope and fight for their return . we owe it to they and to ourselves as a nation — this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — to ensure that their sacrifice be not in vain . I do not want to interrupt the hon . member for Strangford , but he know well than to refer to the Minister as " you " because it end up mean I in the Chair . I , too , congratulate the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on secure this vital debate . he be an impressive champion on this issue , as I know from my time spend serve as an officer with he on the all - party parliamentary group on Magnitsky sanction and reparation . it should be a primary function of any give state to protect its citizen . it should not matter where in the world a british national or an individual with strong tie to the UK get into trouble ; we as a nation should be right alongside they try to get they out . arbitrary detention abroad and relate human right abuse , such as torture , be unacceptable . they often have profound , long - last physical , psychological and social impact , not just on the individual concern , but on their love one , friend and wide social network . many member have speak in depth today about individual case of british national or UK - link individual detain abroad , so I will touch just lightly on two that I have follow mostly closely . first , as the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) have mention , there be the unacceptable continued detention of Dr Gubad Ibadoghlu in Azerbaijan , whose son , Ibad , I have the pleasure of meeting just last month . Ibad and his sibling be hugely impressive advocate for their father , and I know that he will be proud of the tenacity and dignity with which they have conduct their campaign for his release . Dr Ibadoghlu have spend more than a quarter of a century advocate for a democratic Azerbaijan . he have tirelessly fight for fundamental human right and campaign against corruption in Azerbaijan ' s fossil fuel industry . he have be detain since July 2023 on clearly spurious charge , under threat of spend 17 year in prison , while contend with serious health issue . the European Court of Human Rights have demand that he be transfer to a specialised medical institution so that he can receive the treatment that he so desperately need . but , all the while , the Azerbaijan Government have deny this request , claim spuriously that his health be " satisfactory " . I wish to place on record my support for the immediate release of Dr Ibadoghlu . as a british resident and visit fellow at the London School of Economics , the UK should be stand by he and use all available diplomatic lever to show the Azeri Government that their flagrant human right abuse will not be tolerate . secondly , I wish to join the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green and for Maldon , and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , in raise the case of Jimmy Lai . Jimmy have be hold in solitary confinement in Hong Kong for over four year for publish content critical of the chinese regime . I have a significant Hong Kong community in my constituency of Bolton West , and I know from speak to many of they that they worry that , if it be Jimmy detain today , it could be they tomorrow . indeed , many of my constituent be effectively force from their home in Hong Kong due to China ' s disruption of Hong Kong ' s democratic freedom , which we have hear about in this Chamber today . only last week , in a debate on the status of Taiwan , we hear how Jimmy ' s treatment be part of a broad pattern of behaviour , which be China ' s consistent and blatant disregard for the international rule - base system . in both those case , I fear that the UK Government have not do their utmost to fulfil that very central function of protect our national . I share the view of colleague that , unfortunately , the Foreign Office lack a clear , centralised and proactive strategy for deal with arbitrary detention of UK national . give the severity of the issue , I believe that a dedicated UK envoy in this area , in a similar vein to the US role of presidential envoy for hostage affair , should be consider very swiftly by the Foreign Office . while in opposition , the Foreign Secretary pledge to look at that , so I hope the Minister can give I an update on how this pledge will be realise in fairly short order . a good first step , however , would be to consider great transparency in the Foreign Office . it could , for example , share with us information about how many british national be currently be arbitrarily detain . I hope the Minister will speak to that in his wind - up . at the very least , we should be able to hold statistical datum on the number of victim of arbitrary detention , as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green quite rightly say . I welcome this Government ' s manifesto pledge to give british citizen the legal right to consular access when they get into legal difficulty overseas . I find it extremely concern that that be not already the case . as colleague have already attest to , consular assistance not only come with protection against the very bad excess of arbitrary detention , but be sometimes the only link between the individual suffering in absolutely harrowing circumstance and the outside world . it be no exaggeration to say that it can be life - save , and I wish to go on the record to commend the work of dedicated official in the Foreign Office when such assistance have be provide . Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to say one final word on the diplomatic lever available to we . magnitsky sanction be a critical tool for ensure that there be a cost to hostage taking and arbitrary detention , and they should be deploy in a consistent manner in case such as those mention in the Chamber today . in addition , we know that asset freeze can be a very effective tool , as can deny sanction individual access to London ' s financial sector and property market . sanction must be use in a holistic manner against those responsible for arbitrary detention of british national . to deter state from engage in arbitrary detention , we must also ensure that they bite as much as possible . on a related point , just last month , Financial Times analysis find that company register in the british overseas territory export $ 134 million worth of good to Russia in 2024 , in an apparent breach of UK sanction . the lack of open ownership record in our british overseas territory complicate effort to establish who be involve in such shipment . the same principle apply to asset that we would seek to freeze . that matter for today ' s debate , because without fully public register of ownership , we will never be totally comfortable that we be not unwittingly allow individual who be subject to sanction to evade they . I place on the record my thank to the organisation campaign on this issue , include Redress , and my deep sympathy with the family of those who have be arbitrarily detain abroad . their suffering , and of course the suffering of those detain , be why this debate need to be have , and why the Government must act on the concern raise by colleague on both side of the House . to make the final Back - Bench contribution , which I have no doubt will be just as impactful as the other , I call Douglas McAllister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in this Backbench Business debate on detain british national abroad . I commend the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure it , and for his relentless campaigning on the important cause of arbitrarily detain british national at risk of human right abuse abroad . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for support his application . this House should be concern by the number of british national detain abroad and at risk . I wish to raise in particular the plight of my constituent from West Dunbartonshire , Jagtar Singh Johal , who have be detain in India for over seven year . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for their contribution to the debate on his behalf . Jagtar be a british citizen from Dunbarton . a campaigner himself on human right abuse in India , he be abduct and detain in November 2017 . after his arrest , he be brutally torture , and now face , some seven year later , nine case against he base on evidence obtain by false confession . countless application for his bail have be refuse . after all these year , Jagtar remain not just in prison but in solitary confinement . his suffering be unimaginable , and his daily existence almost intolerable . I be sure that this House will be concern about Jagtar ' s mental and physical wellbeing after be confine in such condition , which be why the support that the british Government provide to their national in harrowing condition , such as those that my constituent endure , be vital . consular access and assistance be very often the only link between the individual and the outside world . that have prove to be the case for my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal . Consular access should have a legal framework , and not just be a discretionary offering . change the culture of the fcdo and provide family with certainty about what support their love one will receive as a matter of right be a necessity . we must introduce it . as far as my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal be concern , and as my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West state , the UN working group on arbitrary detention conclude over two and a half year ago in May 2022 that , under international law , Jagtar ' s detention be arbitrary . yet here we be , 2 , 589 day later . he remain in prison — unconvicted and in solitary confinement . to add to that misery , Jagtar and his family must cope with the very real fear that he be at serious risk of a death sentence . at least two of the charge against Jagtar carry the death penalty . former government ' response have be inadequate , and successive UK Foreign Secretaries have fail to seek Jagtar ' s release and repatriation to the UK . that be simply unacceptable and not good enough . the new Government and Foreign Secretary now have the opportunity to uphold the principled position that we take in opposition . I be encourage by the progress and support that I have receive from the Foreign Office , and the Foreign Secretary and his Ministers , who have provide I with regular update and report . I have also receive assurance in this House , include from the Prime Minister , that Jagtar ' s case be raise directly with the Indian Government and Prime Minister Modi . I be encourage that the Government be seek Jagtar ' s immediate release . last month , around the time of seven - year anniversary of Jagtar ' s detention , the Foreign Secretary meet with I and my constituent Gurpreet Singh Johal , the brother of Jagtar , at the Foreign Office . the Foreign Secretary be extremely generous with his time . in fact , Jagtar ' s brother comment in the medium immediately after our meeting that he have meet with five Foreign Secretaries and this be the first Foreign Secretary whom he feel have actually listen to he . I fully appreciate that other british national in similar circumstance across the world require a similar level of active support , and it should be consistent for all . that be why I commend the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green for secure today ' s debate . I thank Reprieve for its outstanding assistance for my constituent , and its guidance to I since I be elect to this House in July . I call on the Indian Government to immediately release Jagtar Singh Johal , and ask that the fcdo continue to escalate its diplomatic representation with its relevant counterpart to establish Jagtar ' s release and his immediate return home to my constituency of West Dunbartonshire and his family in Dunbarton . help bring he home now . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for lead today ' s important debate , and the Backbench Business Committee for support it . when this House consider grave matter of war and armed conflict , minister often intone that the first duty of the state be the protection of its citizen , and they be right . that obligation to protect the physical security of its citizen do not stop at the border of our nation . the british passport that permit we to travel to other country contain a message from the Foreign Secretary in the name of his Majesty that require other " to allow the bearer to pass freely without let or hindrance and to afford the bearer such assistance and protection as may be necessary . " yet today , member have highlight the case of those to whom that request have not be grant . the Liberal Democrats stand with all british national who have be arbitrarily detain overseas , and with their family . we share the anger cite by the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) at their detention . our party be a steadfast supporter of the rule of law , and salute the many brave individual and campaign organisation that fight tirelessly for democracy , political freedom , freedom of expression and human right in those country where the regime show no respect for those value . that be why , at the last election , our manifesto contain a commitment to enshrine in law a right for british national , include dual national , who have be politically detain or face other human right violation abroad , to access UK consular service . we would be delighted if the Government take up that proposal , so will the Minister advise we when they will enact such a commitment ? I wish to build on the reference make to a few case by right hon . and hon . member . like the hon . member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) , it be my privilege to meet the family of Alaa Abd el - Fattah last week . they describe the despair that Alaa feel now that his detention have extend beyond the five - year sentence that he be hand in his sham trial . his remarkable mother , Laila Soueif , be now on the 67th day of her hunger strike to protest that Alaa have not be free . she describe to I the need of her young grandson , Alaa ' s son , Khaled , who live in Brighton . it clearly break Laila ' s heart that he have not see his father for so long . I be sure that the whole House understand the anguish that Alaa ' s family feel about his continued detention . I know that minister have voice the need for action in Alaa ' s case . as the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) mention , in opposition , the Foreign Secretary say in 2022 that there should be " serious diplomatic consequence " for Egypt if Alaa be not release . he also say that the UK ' s £ 4 billion trade partnership with Egypt afford the UK " tremendous leverage " . last week , Laila and Alaa ' s sister meet with the Foreign Secretary . they protest that , despite those statement in opposition , the UK - egyptian diplomatic relationship be unchanged , and UK official continue to negotiate further bilateral investment and trade deal with Egypt . on Saturday , Laila visit Alaa in prison . she update he on her meeting with the Foreign Secretary , and Alaa say this to his mother : " I have hope in David Lammy but I just can ' t believe nothing be happen . if he be serious and have take the step he promise while in Opposition I would have be free today — but instead they just ignore my release date because there be zero pressure . now I think either I will die in here , or if my mother die , I will hold he to account . " three week ago , I meet Sebastien Lai and the legal team support his father Jimmy Lai . as hon . and right hon . member have set out , Jimmy be clearly a victim of politically motivated imprisonment . his staunch support of democracy and freedom of speech in Hong Kong be remarkable , yet the chinese authority have detain he for four year without trial , hold he in solitary confinement under the national security law . they have deny he access to consular support , place he at health risk as a 76 - year - old with a chronic condition , and deny he his right to practise religion . last month , they restart his trial after an 11 - month hiatus . Sebastien be deeply worried that his father will die in prison . the House also hear today from the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) about the detention of Jagtar Singh Johal in 2017 . as they say , the finding of the UN working group on arbitrary detention in May 2022 uphold the view of his family that he have be detain without any legal basis and that his right have be gravely violate . yesterday I meet representative of Amnesty International who want to be sure that the House would hear of the detention without trial of british citizen Mehran Raoof in Iran in October 2020 . Mehran be one of many british national detain in Iran . in other case , the family of those detain have ask that their relative be not name . that be not a surprise give the reputation of the iranian state for appal human right abuse in Iran and for extraterritorial threat to Iranians live overseas , include here in the UK . tonight Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe will give the 2024 Orwell lecture . the example of her imprisonment and detention , of the courage of her family and of the action and inaction of successive Ministers should be a sobering reminder of what Iran be prepared to do to british national , whom it consider pawn in hostage diplomacy . I be a newcomer to the House , but I know many member who speak today have be long - stand advocate in this place of the right of those prisoner , and I pay tribute to they for their steadfast campaigning . sadly , despite the continuous effort of those parliamentarian , neither the previous Conservative Government nor this new Labour Government have succeed in advance the case of those I have mention . Alaa have now spend over five year in continuous detention . Jimmy have now spend nearly four year in solitary confinement . Jagtar be arrest over seven year ago . Mehran be imprison over four year ago . the family and friend of detainee be call on the Government to do more , and they be right to ask why more be not be do . the Prime Minister or the Foreign Secretary may be raise the case of those detainee , but the truth be that the country hold they do not appear to be listen . I do appreciate the Government ' s dilemma — after the previous Conservative Government do so much to erode the UK ' s stand in the world , this Government have a weak starting point . I therefore understand the temptation to soft - pedal on awkward issue , but , as member have say , that be the wrong strategy . I agree with the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) that we need a more self - confident and consistent strategy to guide the Government ' s approach when british national be arbitrarily detain overseas . let I set out five further step that the Government can and should take . first , the Government should call for the immediate release of any detain british national or dual national who be arbitrarily detain . secondly , the Government should insist on consular access to any british national and that UK official attend trial . thirdly , the Government should commit to raise the case in every ministerial interaction with that Government as part of a join - up approach that do not treat human right as one silo in the bilateral relationship . fourthly , the Government should name the consequence of ignore their request for action and , follow a suitable period to allow the detaining Government to act , should enforce those consequence against government and individual , as member have raise . fifthly , the Government should implement the recommendation of the Foreign Affairs Committee and appoint an envoy or director for arbitrary detention , who would have the role of pursue those case and provide regular update to the family of detainee on the step the Government be take to secure their release . as the hon . member for East Renfrewshire say , it be not enough for ambassador and Ministers to increase the adjective of disappointment as each month pass and as each polite request be ignore . will the Minister commit today to take those step in every case of arbitrary detention ? diplomacy rest upon both party have a clear understanding of the interest and need of the other . as the Prime Minister say after meet President Xi recently and briefly raise Jimmy Lai ' s case , the UK should challenge China while be a " pragmatic and predictable partner " . to take two specific example , will the Government indicate to the Chinese Government that the Chancellor ' s propose trade and investment visit to Beijing will not go ahead until Jimmy Lai be release ? will the Government tell the egyptian Government that unless consular access be grant to Alaa Abd el - Fattah , the fcdo ' s travel advice will be alter to warn UK traveller to Egypt that it do not always recognise british national and therefore consular support can not be guarantee ? to travel under the protection of a UK passport must have meaning . it can not be a polite request . instead , the Government must put in place a strategy that restore what every passport state : that country be require to assure UK citizen of free passage and necessary protection . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure this important and impactful debate . he speak with such knowledge on the matter . I thank all other hon . and right hon . member for their contribution . support british national abroad should rightly be a priority for the fcdo . look after the welfare of detainee in particular be a cornerstone of the excellent work do by our consular team here and overseas . it be crucial that minister back our Foreign Office staff , detainee and family by provide leadership at the high level and support they wherever possible . I witness some of that during my time as a Foreign Office Minister and , like many member , I experience it at a constituency level , see how the fcdo have help with the return of a number of consular case . in our last full year in government in 2023 , the consular team at the Foreign Office support 21 , 000 british national around the world , include victim of crime and those who have be detain or hospitalise . we be clear that our citizen abroad must get access to the help they need when they need it . I note that the Foreign Secretary confirm last week that he hope to announce an envoy who will deal with more complex detention case . I gently say to the Government and the Minister that this must not become an excuse for outsource something that be the responsibility of Ministers . detain british national will rightly expect Ministers to grip those issue and provide the political leadership that they and their family deserve . the Government also promise to introduce a new right to consular assistance in case of human right violation , which , disappointingly , be not forthcoming in the King ' s Speech . I would be grateful if the Minister could update the House on the Government ' s plan to bring forward that commitment . there be a number of high - profile consular case , some of which we have hear about today , that parliamentarian rightly continue to take a keen interest in see resolve . they include , among other , the case of Jagtar Singh Johal , Alaa Abd el - Fattah , Ryan Cornelius and Jimmy Lai . we raise our concern about Jagtar Singh Johal ' s case , include his allegation of torture , with the Government of India on over 110 occasion . as Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton personally meet Mr Johal ' s brother in Glasgow . we constantly raise Alaa Abd el - Fattah ' s case with the high level of the egyptian Government and press hard for urgent consular access . we remain deeply concerned about his case and be absolutely clear that he need to be release . when in government , we also regularly raise consular matter with the United Arab Emirates authority , include Ryan Cornelius ' s case , at an official and ministerial level , and consular staff be in regular contact with Mr Cornelius and his family to provide he with ongoing support . we call strongly for the release of Jimmy Lai , for an end to his politically motivated trial , and for consular access . we raise that consistently at the very high level , and press for the repeal of Hong Kong ' s national security legislation . the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , recently meet Mr Lai ' s son , Sebastien . we will continue to call for Mr Lai ' s release . in the light of the deep concern share across the House , some of which we have hear today , I would be grateful if the Minister provide an update on the Government ' s work with international counterpart to progress those case , and on his recent engagement with those individual ’ family . in respect of Jimmy Lai ' s case in particular , I return to a theme that I have raise from the Dispatch Box before : the Government ' s pursuit of close relation with Beijing . there be no shying away from the fact that the charge lay against Mr Lai arise because of the national security law that China introduce in Hong Kong . when he be Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton be unequivocal that that law be a clear breach of the sino - british joint declaration , and we continue to call for its repeal . the Foreign Secretary have say that there be disagreement between his government and the Chinese on that matter , so I hope that the Minister will assure the House that the Government will articulate those difference in opinion loud and clear by make an explicit call for that law to be repeal . the Foreign Secretary want to avoid surprise with Beijing , but we can not afford for any reset of relation to be all give and no take just for the sake of avoid difficult conversation . more broadly , we must be clear - eyed that the autocratic world use dual - national as pawn to achieve its objective and obtain leverage . indeed , we have see a disturbing pattern of british national be imprison by autocracy in recent year . we see that in Russia with the appalling treatment of Vladimir Kara - Murza , and in Iran with the callous and cowardly execution of Alireza Akbari . do the Minister have a strategy for counter that pattern of cynical exploitation of british national ? I put on record our thank to the consular team in the UK , and in british embassy , high commission and consulate around the world , for the work that they undertake around the clock , often in extremely difficult circumstance , to support thousand of british national every year . many case may not be as high profile as those that I and other right hon . and hon . member have set out , but they be all equally important when it come to safeguard our interest and look after our citizen . I would be grateful if the Minister outline how he be back our consular team to ensure that they be properly resource and can keep up their excellent work . we have a duty to british national at home and abroad , especially those who be deny access to vital support . it be right that we give consular service our full backing in deliver that support . to support that work , and to ensure that the UK uphold its duty to its citizen , the Government must provide political leadership by continue to raise case at the high level . I call the Minister . I start by pay tribute to the family who be in the Gallery and to those who be not . as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) say , I have some personal experience in these matter , and I know just how painful it be to have a love one detain overseas , often for long period and with great uncertainty about next step . I have meet many of those who be in the Public Gallery . they be a tribute to their family , and I be endlessly in awe of the bravery , commitment and determination that they show . as the right hon . Gentleman mention , many of these case have be go on for some time . I will start by provide context on the general situation . several member have make comment about trend line ; I will offer datum on the Foreign Office ' s response , as have be request . I will set out Labour ' s position , and then I will turn briefly to some of the case that have be raise . however , as be say by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , many family do not wish to have their case name in this House , and many of they be not represent in the Public Gallery . that do not make they any less of a priority for I , the rest of the ministerial team , or the Foreign Office . I join the shadow Minister — the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) — and many other right hon . and hon . member in pay tribute to consular team for their work . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say that many Foreign Office staff be the good and bright , and that be certainly true for consular team , who I be very happy to represent as the consular Minister , and to visit everywhere I go . the week before last , I be in Pakistan , where our staff deal with some of the most complex consular case , as the House will know . they work 24 / 7 to ensure that people have what be often their only contact with the outside world once they have be detain , as many member have say . I would not claim to be one of the good or bright , but I be what the right hon . member for New Forest East would probably call a specialist unit , give that during my time in the Foreign Office , I deal with many such case . indeed , I work with other nation , as many member have encourage the Government to do . it be of course desirable to look at other country ' system . my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) mention the SPEHA system , with which I work extensively . I can assure she that I talk to my american counterpart , include the special envoy , who I will see this weekend . member seek consistency in our response to consular case . they will recognise that what govern our ability to provide consular assistance be the Vienna convention , which mandate that we can not interfere in foreign legal system ; we can only ensure that proper consular assistance be offer . many member have rightly highlight the difficulty in identify whether british national have have proper recourse to due process and their full right . the Foreign Office remain focused on that question . we be assist 1 , 400 british national detain overseas . some of those case be more straightforward ; some be considerably more complex . we provide assistance , both directly and through a partnership with Prisoners abroad — a highly value charity with which many member will be familiar . it work to ensure not only that british national overseas be visit by the Foreign Office , but that they have access to essential such as food and medication . prisoner abroad also support the family of those detain abroad , a vital service that we will continue to support . we have long - run partnership with non - governmental organisation such as Reprieve and the Death Penalty Project , which provide expertise in complex case . I know that right hon . and hon . member be familiar with the Foreign Office arrangement , so I will not dwell on they too much , but let I be clear about what a Labour Government will do differently and why . we will introduce a special envoy for complex consular case , in part because we have hear from family , include those in the Public Gallery , about their experience of seek Foreign Office support . we will introduce that envoy so that there be , as many member have request , a part of the Foreign Office with a particular focus on complex consular case . we will also introduce a new right to consular assistance . I hope to return to the House shortly to set out more detail on both provision . the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) rightly highlight that we should be uneasy about the increase global trend of try to use british and other foreign national as diplomatic leverage . it be important to repeat that we will never accept british national be use as pawn or diplomatic leverage . we take a strong position on that , and will continue to do so . we will not haggle for british national , but will ensure that they have their proper right , in accordance with the Vienna convention , and will do everything we can to support their family . I turn briefly to some of the case that have be raise . I reiterate that I will not mention every case . there be many name that be burn into my mind , as member would expect , and case that we work on regularly that I will not mention now , but I will address those on which I have be particularly press for answer . I begin with the case of Mr Cornelius and Mr Ridley . the family be above I in the Gallery . we will continue to provide support to they , but I reassure the House that I have now raise with the ruler of Dubai the request for clemency , and outline the british Government ' s support for Mr Cornelius ' pardon application . the previous Foreign Secretary do so , as be allude to by the shadow Minister ; I think it be important to provide clarification on that . I recognise that there have be unwelcome news in this case ; I will not go into further detail about that in this place , but we will continue to work on the case . I meet Mr Cornelius ' s family recently , and I reassure the House that I have commit to continue to meet they for as long as the two case remain ongoing . Mr Lai ' s case , which be also raise , remain a priority for the British Government . we be closely monitor his trial , and I can reassure the House that diplomat from our consulate general will continue to attend his court proceeding . as this House be aware , the Prime Minister raise the matter of Mr Lai with President Xi at the G20 summit , and the Foreign Secretary have raise it with his equivalent . the Minister for the Indo - Pacific have also raise this case with both the Chinese and Hong Kong authority . we continue to call on the Hong Kong authority to end their politically motivated prosecution and immediately release Mr Lai . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , and for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) , for raise the case of Mr Johal . we continue to press the Government of India for fast progress to resolve this matter . I recognise the diligent effort of his brother , who I understand be in the Gallery , and the deep and profound frustration about this case . it must be resolve , and that resolution must include an investigation into Mr Johal ' s allegation of torture . I will return to this House later today to talk far about Mr el - Fattah ' s case . that case remain at the front of my mind and that of the Foreign Secretary . he meet the family , who I understand be behind I in the Gallery , last week . the Prime Minister have raise the case with President Sisi ; the Foreign Secretary and I have both raise it with the egyptian Foreign Minister ; and my right hon . friend the Minister for Development raise it just this week , again with the egyptian Foreign Minister . Mr el - Fattah ' s case be tragic . I be very mindful of the hunger strike of his mother , who I have meet , and whose effort have be mention by many hon . member . we will continue to focus on Mr el - Fattah , and I look forward to return to the House this afternoon to discuss his case far . on Emily Damari , a hostage hold by Hamas and a british national , she and all the other UK national and people with UK link hold by Hamas be very much on our mind . we continue to press for their immediate release , for humanitarian access to they , and for the medical assistance that we be sure they will require . I meet their family this week , and they will remain a steadfast focus . I would also like to comment briefly on the case of Dr Ibadoghlu ; we have indeed raise this case with the authority , include recently at the end of October . as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green suggest , these be not easy case . many of they have be go on for some time , and the appointment of an envoy be important , but I reassure this House that I be the Minister responsible for consular affair . it be not for official to own these case ; as the shadow Minister have make clear , that be for Ministers . that be very much the view that I and the Foreign Secretary take . I look forward to return to the House to discuss some of these case in more detail , and to tell member about the measure that we will take . I regret that in our few month in Government , we have not yet see positive progress on all these case , and I note that many member have refer to the negative trend in some of these area . I reassure the House that we will continue to focus on this issue above all . as be say by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock , the first duty of Government be to look after their people . there be no high responsibility for I than serve british national , whatever corner of the world they be in . before the Minister conclude , there be something that many member have call for that he have not touch on . we pass an Act on Magnitsky sanction some time ago . should those sanction not be part of our attack on hostage - taking and on people be detain abroad for no reason ? why be those involve not be threaten with sanction , and not have sanction apply to they ? why be the Government — all government — so reluctant to use this tool ? I be afraid that , as the right hon . Gentleman might expect , I will not provide a detailed commentary on whether we be consider sanction in any of these case . our position have be that we do not like to discuss sanction in the House before we implement they , but I recognise the thrust of what he say . I think he be ask I to ensure that there be no diplomatic lever that we would not consider pull to ensure the safety of our national , and I can confirm that . I thank my hon . friend for be so clear , but can he say whether the criterion for decide whether a british national have be arbitrarily detain will be publish ? I recognise the work of my right hon . friend and her Committee , the detailed report on this subject that the Foreign Affairs Committee publish during the previous Parliament , as well as the work of the APPG on these matter . as she say about the american experience , it be important for an envoy to be appropriately focused , and to have a limited number of case . we be keen to engage with the House on how to ensure that the envoy be focus on a limited number of case , and on what criterion be most appropriate . my view be that the process will continue to require ministerial discretion , as the shadow Minister say , but I look forward to talk to both my right hon . friend ' s Committee and the House again in more detail once we be in a position to bring forward more concrete proposal . unless any other member wish to intervene on I , I will conclude . these be some of the most difficult issue that the Government and Members of the House face . I pay tribute not only to the family in the Gallery and beyond , but to right hon . and hon . member . during this debate , there have be allusion to the historical preference of the British Government for not discuss consular case in public in any great detail . in some case , as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson say , that be for reason of safety or judgment , the Foreign Office have assess what be most likely to assist the british national in question . however , I recognise that as hon . member have say , this issue be of real importance to many member of the House , and I will make myself available to all member who have complex consular case that they wish to discuss with I . this debate be long overdue , and we have use the time well . we should have regular debate on this issue ; the Government should set aside time for Back Benchers to debate what be happen to constituent who have be arbitrarily arrest and , more widely , to british citizen who be unlawfully detain . that should be a regular occurrence , and there should be regular report . in my opening remark , I call for a regular report from the Government on the status of those individual . I hope that the Minister will take that request away , and that Ministers will initiate debate on this issue , rather than wait for Back Benchers to do so . that would give we a real sense of the concern , and the direct action that be be take . a number of issue be raise by colleague from across the House . first , there be a call for a regular envoy who would be directly involve in these case , so that the family always feel informed , and so that there be a go - to individual who everybody know , and who possess knowledge and understanding , include of the policy that the Government have initiate . it would be helpful if the Government make it clear that that be what they want to do . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee speak about make sure that we link this issue with trade , and that be very viable . we have different department ; I be a Secretary of State once and we deal in separate little silo , and no one quite know what the other be do . it be clear from the debate that everybody share the view that it be time for there to be a concentration of effort so that all power be bring to bear on foreign government and every angle be use : trade , investment and , ultimately , sanction . we have Magnitsky sanction legislation . we know now from what have happen around the world that what really concern individual be the idea that they will be sanction — sanction by government in the democratic world who will refuse they access to their financial institution and all the other pleasure they may derive from be in place like the UK , Europe or the United States . this be a very efficient tool , but it be not use much by the UK Government and it should be use more . in Hong Kong , China have trash the sino - british agreement and have arrest a number of people . it have just incarcerate 45 democracy campaigner in ghastly fashion , have hold they for three year before eventually give they their sentence . Jimmy Lai , in appal treatment , languish in isolation from other . and we , the UK , who set the agreement with China , have sanction not one single person responsible for any of the many abuse . America have sanction at least 12 of the high official . this show — this be the main issue that arise from the debate — why people in Britain believe that british government of all hue , through the Foreign Office , do not do as much as they should . that have to be counter ; whether it be correct or not , it need to be answer . that be the final point of the debate . finally , I want to stress on every give occasion that our british passport , give to those who be british citizen whether or not they be dual national , have on its inside page a demand , not a request , and sometimes we in this House wonder about that . as one Foreign Minister after another , whether Conservative or Labour , arrive on the Front Bench , none ever make that statement . british citizen require and demand that right of access to the consulate — one of the Minister ' s responsibility — so that they can have their issue deal with . we need to know that that have be demand , not request nor negotiate — demand , as that be a right that we have . I hope the Minister will take away with he the sense that there be genuine concern here about the behaviour of successive government in this matter . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House be concern by the number of arbitrarily detain british national at risk of human right abuse abroad and the apparent lack of active support for those detain ; and call on the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to provide regular report on when it last raise the case of those people with its international counterpart . improve Public Transport I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of improve public transport . I begin by thank the Backbench Business Committee for schedule this important and timely debate . the Government have recognise the need for a modal shift away from car to public transport , but we be still a long way from achieve this aspiration . the Government aim to change the way the railway and bus service operate in the UK , so we stand at a crossroad , make it increasingly important that we head in the right direction . as member will know , transport be a key contributor to climate change and the release of greenhouse gas . the transport sector be responsible for more than a quarter of total UK emission and be the single most polluting domestic sector , but all public transport combine — bus , tram , share mobility — account for only 9 % of these emission , with that number fall every year . improved public transport play a huge role in deliver growth to local and regional community , but all too often public transport be a barrier to economic inclusion in rural area . we know that well local integrate transport system deliver growth and opportunity — two of the Government ' s five mission . datum from the Local Government Association find that a 1 % improvement in public transport journey time could support a nearly 1 % reduction in employment deprivation . the Government ' s own return on investment tool show that help someone back into work provide a £ 3 , 500 boost to their income while the national Government benefit by £ 11 , 400 and wide society by £ 23 , 000 . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do she agree that the single big reason that people fail to access work in rural area be public transport ? the figure that she have give be not just number ; it benefit somebody ' s whole way of life if they can access work because they can catch the bus there . I entirely agree , and I will address that point in my speech . poor public transport compound social ill , while the unreliability , inaccessibility and lack of integration in rural Britain prevent people from trust that it can get they where they need to go when they need to go there and , crucially , that they can get home again . Somerset have the bad bus service in the country , force community into isolation or lock they into expensive and pollute car usage . my constituent from area that be currently serve by the railway be concerned about the impact of build Old Oak Common and how it will disrupt travel to London . many resident who travel from Castle Cary to London face up to a decade of disruption as a result of those work . I would welcome it if the Minister comment on how that will be mitigate . I would also like to mention the future of South Western Railway , after the decision be make recently to renationalise the company in May 2025 . it will be the large train operate company ever to be nationalise in the UK , and that will happen before great British Railways , the body that will oversee the public operator , be operational . in just a few month , the Department will , in effect , take responsibility for hundred of million of extra journey , and my constituent travel on the Exeter St David ' s to Waterloo line from Templecombe or nearby station be anxious about the future of the train that they rely on . I would welcome it if the Minister comment on that , too . I have speak many time in this place about the reintroduction of a station in the Somerton and Langport area , and I thank the Langport Transport Group for its hard work and tenacity in try to bring a railway station to the area after it lose its station during the Beeching cut of the 1960 . the Somerton and Langport area have the long stretch of rail between London and Cornwall that be not serve by a railway station . the Langport Transport Group prepare a proposal to the restore your railway fund and win £ 50 , 000 to develop a strategic outline case alongside Somerset council , which they submit in February 2022 . despite this huge effort , they have never hear back , even after I press both the former Prime Minister and the Transport Secretary in the last Parliament for an answer . now that that scheme have be cancel by the Chancellor , local resident feel that they be in limbo . have a railway station in the Somerton and Langport area make so much sense . it would serve the 50 , 000 people who live nearby who currently be not serve by the railway line that run right through their community . nearby station such as Castle Cary , Taunton , Bridgwater and Yeovil Junction be all at least 12 to 15 mile away . there be no direct bus to Castle Cary or Taunton , where it be then a hike to the near station . that be hardly an incentive to travel , and it illustrate the lack of integrated public transport in Somerset — a topic I will speak on later . a railway station in the area would do more than connect resident to the rail line . it could also boost the local economy , bring in more visitor . we have see nearby passenger number at Castle Cary — the official railway station for the Glastonbury festival — jump massively in recent year , from 152 , 000 in 2002 - 03 to 251 , 000 in 2017 - 18 . I may have a slight bias , but there be so many reason for people to stop and visit the area , if only there be a train station . for example , there be the River Parrett trail , a scenic 50 - mile walk that be home to some of lowland England ' s most beautiful and unchanged landscape . as I mention , the proposal be cast into doubt after the Government announce the cancellation of the restore your railway fund in the summer . we be still wait for an update on what will happen to the project . I would welcome the Minister ' s comment regard the Somerton and Langport railway . I thank my hon . friend for raise such an important topic for we all , and in particular for my constituent in Bicester and Woodstock . after the Conservative - lead administration cut all direct bus funding in our area in 2016 , I be proud that Liberal Democrats have reinstate community bus service . do she agree that it be incredibly important that the Government ' s new plan for public transport not only focus on metropolitan area but provide adequate funding so that these dislocate area can access community bus transport , use new technology for demand - lead and cost - effective service for our resident ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . that be vital for rural area . I have excellent community transport provider in Glastonbury and Somerton : there be Wincanton community transport , and across Somerset we have the slinky bus that provide on - demand service . they be crucial for people who need to get to surgery appointment and even their job , as well as for get people out and about , and break down that rural isolation . move on to integrated transport , if we must wait long for a station in the Langport and Somerton area , it be crucial that in the meantime the area receive an integrate public transport system to nearby railway station in the form of rail - bus link . the former Transport Secretary , the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , on the day before her departure , set out a vision for more integrate public transport system . I hope that the new Secretary of State will keep those aim alive , as that be desperately need in Somerset . fragmented transport leave a traveller try to get from Wincanton to Castle Cary have to take a bus journey and then walk half a mile to the station to catch a train , with no integration between the bus timetable and the train time . in nearby Devon , local bus operator , the council and Great Western Railway have work together to launch rail - bus link with improved timetable that correspond with mainline train service , alongside improve service brand visibility . that serve as an example of how integrate rail - bus link can work in rural area and service community that do not have a train station . I thank my hon . friend for bring this important debate to the Chamber . in my constituency , GWR have be work with the borough and county council on a new cycle link . Network Rail , unfortunately , be singularly block the development . that strategic cycle link will probably not be complete unless Network Rail , which own the land , get out the way . do she agree that different arm of government need to be work together much more strongly and that cultural change in Network Rail be require if we be to solve these problem in public transport and active travel ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . integration between public transport and active travel be vital . he and I live in a beautiful part of the world , which frankly more people should get out and enjoy on two wheel or on two foot . there be huge opportunity to improve bus service around the country , and especially in Somerset , where they be almost endless — mind you , the starting point be quite low . in 2022 , Somerset county council ' s bus service improvement plan bid acknowledge that Somerset have the worst - rate bus service in the country at the time , and that be after 13 year of lack of investment under a Conservative - lead administration . bus provision be poor and unreliable . for example , the 54 bus route , which run through Glastonbury and Somerton connect Taunton to Yeovil , lack an evening or Saturday service . that leave people who might work unpredictable or unsociable hour unable to trust the bus service and reliant on a private car . Cherie in Glastonbury tell I that she have to wait for an hour for her bus home from work , so despite finish at 5 pm she do not get home until nearly half - past 7 . if she be to drive , it would take she 10 minute . the unreliability of bus combine with the poor state of bus stop and public information provide a major hurdle for bus user . I thank Somerset bus partnership for its unrelenting work to improve that , have hold more than 100 bus stall to inform local people about their near service , fill an information gap that have sadly be leave by the service provider . Most bus stop do not have a print sign timetable or real - time information , and often poor mobile connectivity in rural area make it difficult for people to access information online . that be confirm recently by Iain , who tell I that the print bus timetable in Glastonbury be barely legible . that be so disappointing . even small intervention could create vastly important change that would support bus service . a campaign for Better Transport survey have find that 52 % of people would use more bus if they have well information at bus stop , but the onus on provide that information be sadly lack . unlike rail , where there be national standard that mandate that a certain level of information be provide at station , there be no equivalent for bus stop . every rail station in Britain have provision for real - time information , but we be a million mile away from achieve similar provision for our bus network . bus user need certainty , but the availability of up - to - date , co - ordinate information on the bus network be lack at the good of time and non - existent at the bad of time . that must change . one of the major barrier prevent simple thing like clear information be the fractured nature of bus funding . the previous Government ' s competitive strategy turn funding into a postcode lottery , with only 40 % of eligible local authority receive any of the £ 1 . 2 billion of BSIP funding announce in 2021 . the Liberal Democrats have be call for a simplified system of bus funding that could deliver route where there be local need . funding be unequal and fractured . Somerset Council receive around £ 25 per head of funding for bus , yet 12 local authority across the country get double that amount . the former Transport Secretary recently announce a big increase in bus funding , with Somerset council receive £ 6 . 5 million . the increase be very welcome , but it will not go far enough to fix the gape hole in our bus provision . Somerset council also await guidance from the Government on what the money can be use for , so that it can prioritise where the need be great . the previous Transport Secretary be keen for local authority to decide where the money be most need , and I hope that that remain the case . the Government ' s vision for the future of bus appear to be base around franchising and deliver London - style bus around the country . as I state , well bus be key to achieve a modal shift , hit net zero target and deliver opportunity and growth . but with the local authority landscape as it be , franchising simply be not an option in rural area . if there be not significant funding , franchising be no more than a pipe dream for rural authority . Somerset council have only three officer to deal with public transport , which be not enough people power to run such an operation . that be not an anomaly , but a local authority standard . if the current situation do not work for rural area , what be the vision ? I hope that the recent removal of the £ 2 bus fare cap be not the start of thing to come for rural area . give the nature of rural bus route , journey be long and people travel far . if the now £ 3 cap be to be remove , it would be disastrous for rural area , as price would rise beyond affordable rate very quickly and disincentivise regular bus patronage . after the 50 % fare increase , one constituent from North Cadbury write to I concerned about the impact it will have on the future of the no . 1 bus from Yeovil to Shepton Mallet , and the no . 58 in Wincanton , which be both face cancellation . those route , and many like they , be vital for social and economic outcome . in the last session , I introduce the Public Transport ( Rural Areas ) Bill , which would have create minimum service level , ensure that resident can access site of employment , education and leisure . I believe that those measure be truly need for rural area . do the hon . Lady accept that the previous Government have not actually fund the £ 2 fare cap beyond the current period ? therefore , we have a cap on bus fare so that people do not to end up with exponential fare rise in the next spending period . the point be that if price go up any far , patronage on bus will go down , and in rural area we travel far and long . it be difficult to incentivise people to use bus in rural area , so we need to get this right , and increase fare will not encourage more people to get out of their car and on to public transport . local authority have a duty to outline route that can not run commercially but be vital to improve social outcome or support economic activity , but there be no duty on they to fund those route . after the general election , there be suggestion that the Government would create safeguard to make it hard for route to be cut , and the well bus Bill be the perfect opportunity to deliver that . the previous Government commit to deliver guidance on the meaning and role of socially necessary service , expand the category to include economically necessary service . but unsurprisingly , they fail to provide it , leave much - need bus route in danger . I hope the Minister will take this up and provide some guidance . improve public transport be essential . the Government have state their intention to improve it but so much remain unclear , especially for rural area , which see poor service and high cost . unfortunately , without investment and smart choice , that will continue to be the reality . the reversal of these trend be crucial , and I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response . I call Alex Mayer to make her maiden speech . I be delighted to be call to give my maiden speech , and I do so with a sense of trepidation and excitement , which I imagine that many a new MP feel . it have strike I that maiden speech be a little like bus : you wait age , and then 335 of they turn up at once . I beg your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , and ask you to listen to one more as we near the end of this journey . as hon . member will know , the excellent House of Commons Library helpfully provide we with the maiden speech of our last two predecessor , to give we a feel for this place and to allow we to acknowledge the work of those who come before we . Mr Selous serve for a whopping 23 year , and I pay tribute to his work as an assiduous constituency representative who stand up for what he believe in . I discover in his maiden speech that he in turn refer to his predecessor who serve for 31 year , who in turn hark back to the Member who come before he — the last Labour MP for the area — who be elect back in 1966 . clearly , 1966 be a year that be rather good for team in red , albeit follow by rather too many year of hurt . history show we how rarely change come for these community , yet change be desperately need : on shop - lifting , as I have meet worker who have be spat at , threaten with needle and even a gun ; on the lack of healthcare facility , include in Houghton Regis and Leighton - Linslade ; on sewage pollute our waterway ; and on transport . I be delighted to be a member of the Transport Committee , and transport be the subject of the debate , which I congratulate the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on securing . my constituency have a long history of transport innovation . it have Britain ' s old road , date back to prehistoric time , the Icknield way , which run through the constituency . it have the Grand Union canal , the freight superhighway of its day . Leighton Buzzard railway once transport sand from quarry and be now a much - love tourism attraction , go full steam ahead . more recently , we gain one of the long guide busway in Europe , which I hope one day can be extend . that bring I neatly to the topic of bus and encourage more people to switch on to they , which be so vital in this time of climate emergency . I welcome the BSIP investment announce recently by the Government , and I look forward to hear more from the Minister about plan to allow more local area to have a smoother path to franchising . I be keen for the Minister to look carefully at transport governance . London and Greater Manchester , which have franchise already , have also historically have alignment of transport power , resource and capacity all in one centralised place . passenger transport executive and their equivalent can accelerate the delivery of transport plan and play a crucial role in unlock regional economic growth . for 50 year , such structure have benefit from much high level of control and co - ordination of bus . they also benefit from run over a much more logical functional economic geography . outside such area , transport power be hold in many different place , and they require a number of organisation to independently agree reform to enact change . that can mean , for example , that bus stop , which be surely the window to the soul of bus , can be own by an organisation with no say in how the bus service itself be run . in many place in the country , highway and transport power be split . we perhaps need more passenger transport executive , although the Urban Transport Group advise that the last passenger transport executive be establish so long ago — not quite so long ago as when a Labour MP last represent Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard — that the mechanic around establish a new one be unclear . in any case , we need governance that be fit for the 21st century , with the right delegate function be grant to a passenger transport executive or equivalent , the establishment of an executive function to speed up decision making and delivery that make the difference . it need to be base on a geography that reflect travel pattern as well as wide social and economic geography , and which give a large enough base to raise farebox income . on geography , I argue that there need to be possibility to franchise in area large than local transport authority . give that franchising be not entirely a silver bullet , I urge the Minister to look at the geography of enhance partnership as well . it be only one bus , but the F70 , which travel from Luton to Milton Keynes via Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard , go through three separate enhance partnership area . finally , I thank Grant Palmer , Arriva and First , which have invite I aboard their bus recently , and Dawsongroup for bring a double - decker bus just outside Parliament for Catch the Bus Month , which many hon . member from across the House come to support . it be my belief , really , that every month should be catch the Bus Month . I urge all hon . member to get on board and back our local bus all year round . I congratulate the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) on her maiden speech , which be lovely to hear . she keep on the theme of bus as well , which be very impressive . there be a puzzle with rural bus service that need to be solve . local resident will all say they be desperate to save their village bus service from closure , yet the local operator will say that footfall keep go down year on year , and there simply be not enough public subsidy to fill the gap . if everyone want to use the bus , why be they not actually do it ? the answer be a mix of two thing . it be partly the price , but , even more so , it be the service . service frequency do not sufficiently meet the need of resident , so they do not take the bus . bus service have be in decline ever since Thatcher ' s privatisation in the 1980 . while increase car use be always go to have an impact , bus service should have bottom out year ago . in practice , what we have leave today be mostly legacy route design to meet the need of community from decade ago . we have see a process of death by a thousand cut , with incremental cut in frequency make the bus option less user friendly every year . across many village in my constituency of Horsham , it be just not practical any more to rely on bus to get to work . when survey in 2021 , more than 80 % of West Sussex resident say they do not use the bus due to a lack of route option or the infrequency of service . gradually , anyone who need dependable public transport be force out of rural area to be replace by car user , which , in turn , reduce bus usage even far — and the downward spiral continue . as a result , in Horsham and across West Sussex , the local authority have for many year preside over a policy of manage decline , with no serious attempt to reverse or even stabilise thing . this summer , the resident of Partridge Green , a village in the south of my constituency , be surprised to discover that they be about to lose their direct link to Horsham via the no . 17 bus . they learn this with just a couple of week ' notice . nobody consult they or warn they ; they find it out only by study the new bus timetable when it be issue . public anger be mainly direct at the local bus operator , but I have to ask : what do we actually expect to happen ? it be a private company that need to make a profit , and the figure say that the cut have to be make . we can not expect private company to behave like social enterprise . Partridge Green resident react to the news with an impressive public campaign , which be still ongoing . I attend a large public meeting that have a fair percentage of the entire village population cram into the local church , and something I hear there really strike I : if only the resident have know the service be in danger , they would have get together to help it , either by use the bus more frequently themselves or by find some other compromise . however , West Sussex county council give the resident no warning , so they never have a chance . this be the killer app we be miss out on : we need to harness the passion of community to protect their local amenity . loss of bus service be not the only problem these community face . village be suffer from the removal of banking service , shop , pharmacy , post office , pub — you name it . they know they be in a battle , but they be also really motivated to help if only we actually ask they . that may be part of the answer to the long - term decline in service . we need to start by ask what kind of service resident actually want , and what they would use if it actually exist . I welcome Government promise of increase local funding and control over public transport , but I hope the Government will be realistic in their assessment of local authority capability , when two fifth of council be on the verge of bankruptcy . we have be fight a long defensive battle , and , frankly , we have be lose . if we be to have any hope of reverse that , we need a mechanism to go back to the people who actually live in these village today , and reconstruct the service from the ground up . I thank the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) for secure the debate . when I originally sign up to speak in it , it be about the south - west . I do not know what change , but obviously national transport be very important . I feel that the south - west do sometimes get miss in conversation , but I hope that with the appointment of my right hon . friend the Member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) as Transport Secretary that might change a little bit . after some of the speech we have hear today , it will come as no shock to anyone that I be go to talk about rural transport and the need for integration . this issue be an odd one for I . my constituency have an urban area of Swindon , and then a rural area which include Inglesham , Highworth , Blunsdon and Castle Eaton . the two area be completely different . we have one bus company , and in the urban area of Swindon we get it right — I do not get complaint from resident . sometimes in Queens Drive I get a complaint about a double decker look into a garden , but at least there be still a double decker go past . when I speak to rural resident , however , they often raise the point that they want and need to use public transport — it be good for their child and for access to education , hospital and the town centre — but they simply can not , and that be force they to use car . I will keep my speech brief , because a lot of member want to talk , but do the House not agree that if we be to incentivise people to ditch the car and get on public transport , we need an integrate transport system that focus on rural area to ensure we can get access to bus when we need they ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) for secure the debate on this important topic . as the Member for the Guildford constituency , I could probably bore for the south - east of England when it come to the public transport challenge we face . I recognise that in comparison with colleague from across the House we do have very good public transport , but it still be not good enough and my resident regularly get in touch with I to tell I so . for too long , our transport network be neglect by the previous Conservative Government , leave transport user frustrate by delay , poor accessibility and high cost . for we to achieve the greener , fair and more thriving future that I be sure all of we here want for our community , high - quality public transport be essential . in my consistency of Guildford , we have two long - propose railway station : Guildford West and Merrow . these station be first suggest 10 year ago and we have have barely any progress . the main reason ? funding . or , rather , the lack of funding . for those not in the know , build a railway station cost upwards of £ 25 million , with at least half of that spend on planning before a single shovel break the ground . that financial barrier have leave resident wait far long than they should for essential infrastructure . yet even as we struggle to deliver new station , exist one remain inaccessible for too many . I be , of course , talk about the issue of step - free access . in my constituency , station such as Clandon , Effingham Junction and Horsley still lack basic accessibility for my resident to be able to access the train in their rural area . instead , they have to go to other , large place such as Guildford and Dorking . we must support those in wheelchair , but step - free access be also about make life easy for parent with pram , people with invisible mobility challenge and anyone who find step a barrier . without do so , we prevent people from choose green public transport . that be a matter of fairness and inclusion but , just like the new station , it come with a significant price tag . with the news this week that south Western Railway will be move to public ownership next year , it be my sincere hope that the urgent improvement we need will start to take place and we will see an end to accessibility desert . but railway be just one part of the public transport puzzle . in the village of my constituency , like many rural and semi - rural area , bus be a lifeline for resident and business , yet far too often route be be cut , service be deeply unreliable and community be be leave isolate . from our extensive experience in local government , those of we on the liberal Democrat Benches know that local solution work well . that be why , personally , I would like the Government to look at empower borough , district , town and parish council to run their own localise bus service , not just the county level transport authority . these council know their community and can deliver the target service that people need . I have speak to people run some of the large town and parish council , and they would like at least the opportunity to consider commercial shuttle bus service . some of they have the financial potential to do so , but can not because it be currently illegal . it be in the gift of the Government to change that . along with a number of my liberal Democrat colleague , I have campaign for many year for solution to our public transport woe . my constituent completely understand the frustration share by everyone else in the country about the delay and the difficulty that result from the inadequacy of public transport . the answer be , of course , investment . I have say this before to conservative colleague , and I say it again now : " please don ' t be shy . borrow our idea , and with those idea — for our manifesto be always fully cost — we can deliver railway station , we can deliver step - free access , and we can deliver bus for resident , community and business , so that our community can thrive . " I thank the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) for initiate the debate , and I also commend my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) for her excellent maiden speech . public transport , include bus , be a bit of a passion of mine . I be from Stroud , and there be many small village in my constituency — include Dursley and Wotton - under - Edge , to name just two — so I know that public transport be about more than infrastructure . it represent a range of opportunity . it be about equality and community , and that be particularly true of rural area , because it tend to run as a lifeline for many local resident . under successive conservative Governments rural bus service have be run down , and it be interesting today to observe the attention be pay to the subject of public transport on the Opposition Benches . there have be a staggering 27 % reduction in bus service since 2011 , and in rural area there be a £ 420 million shortfall . however — to answer the hon . Lady ' s question — I be encourage by the fact that we be invest £ 1 billion in improve bus service , include £ 8 million designate for Gloucestershire . as a little aside , may I mention Stroudwater station , which be close in the 1960 ? I agree with the hon . Lady about small railway station of that kind . they cost a great deal to develop , but when money allow and when we have get ourselves out of our current financial hole , it will be fantastic if we can invest in small station . the impact of nearly four decade of deregulation on our public transport system have leave many community strip of any public transport or at the very least , of any accessibility or affordable bus service . I be therefore delighted that this Government plan to restore power to local community , enable local leader to set fare , determine route and establish timetable , take control away from unaccountable private operator . however , I urge the Minister to confirm that rural area without an elect mayor will have equal opportunity to benefit from the shift towards community - control bus service . Wotton - under - Edge have a lifeline of a bus service , the 84 / 85 go south to Bristol . the problem be that it cross a boundary line between a combine authority area and Gloucestershire . its cancellation have cause havoc for schoolchildren , as well as those who can not get to work , can not get to doctor ' surgery and can not get to hospital . People have write to I say they have have to turn down job offer . that be how important rural bus service be . a key issue in this instance be the lack of co - ordination between local authority . it seem petty , but this be a major problem . the funding for that cross - border bus service be lose because local leader fail to reach an agreement . that be an example of the extent to which fragmentation can affect rural public transport . let I end by describe one of the pleasure of my week . I leave this place , take the train to Stroud and then get on to my favourite bus , the 65 . I sit on the top , and I ride over Selsley common to my home . it be an utter joy , and a joy that be share by my two - year - old granddaughter , who absolutely love bus . so let we develop rural public transport , and take it back to what it be in the past . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) for secure this debate . our public transport service have be run down for year because of the previous Conservative Government , and many rural community across my Thornbury and Yate constituency have see their vital bus service disappear . to rub salt into the wound , we have see money spend on gimmick that be aim at deliver headline rather than save the service we rely on . my constituent be look forward to the new Government offer they hope , but one of their first action be to hike the bus fare cap , which be so vital in rural area , where journey be long and fractured , and the Government have commit to the cap only for the next year . I welcome the announcement of more funding for service that be subsidise by combined and local authority , but for it to be effective , it must be target at restore our rural service , rather than be funnel into already well serve urban area . in the west of England , funding have be prioritise for urban area such as Bristol , where increase the frequency of service boost the number of passenger journey more . as long as the focus be purely on passenger journey number , rather than ensure that everyone have a basic minimum service that enable access to work , education and health service , our rural area will miss out . one of the half - bake solution to the reduction in mainstream , regularly schedule service have be to roll out an on - demand bus service call WESTlink . although on - demand service can work , WESTlink be be use locally to do far more than any on - demand service can reasonably be expect to do , and the delivery of the service have be poor . bad experience have lead to people lose confidence in it , because no one want to be strand and to have to pay a fortune for a taxi . People have tell I that they have book the service to get from a to b , only to find that they be the only passenger on board . the situation be even more ridiculous when we consider that some westlink service be fill the gap leave by the axing of bus route that child and teenager use to get to school or college . parent repeatedly have to call up to book what should be a consistent daily service to get young people to and from their place of learn . it be simply a waste of time and resource to manage the service in this way . to quote one parent , " I know there be a WESTlink available to book every day , but with the WESTlink only able to have a small number of passenger — and it be never on time or take we somewhere completely different before take we to school — it ' s leave parent with the fear of be fine . " I have try in vain to raise this issue with the West of England combine authority , both in my time in this place and in my previous role as the leader of South Gloucestershire council , but each time we be meet with the same answer : " there ' s no funding . " that show the core weakness of the system . route that be commercially sustainable be run by bus company , which absorb the profit , and the less - use but equally important rural route be leave in the hand of local authority . local government have have its funding cut to the bone during more than a decade of conservative rule in Westminster , and it simply can not magic up extra money to keep the bus run . when I raise the issue of use funding to provide minimum service level for rural area in the House a few week ago , the then Transport Secretary , the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , agree with I ; I hope that the Minister will echo that agreement today . I also hope that the Minister will agree that regardless of whether new franchising power be take up — my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton have highlight the difficulty — local councillor should be involve in decision making . as a councillor for many year , I know how valuable their local knowledge can be in avoid disastrous route and timetable change that make sense to those sit in the bus operator ' s office . the Yate and District Transport Forum in my area be a good example of local representative work with operator , but all too often councillor find out about change at the same time as resident , when it be too late to intervene . I agree with the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) about the need to understand that whatever boundary one choose for transport service , some people will want to cross it — and in the case of the 84 / 85 , it be a significant number of people . I have have similar message about people ' s inability to get to job , the impact on people travel to Katharine Lady Berkeley ' s school , and so forth . it be important that the Minister provide clarity on the issue of cross - boundary service . I will finish by briefly touch on railway . we be lucky enough to have some local line and rail service in my area , but there be no joined - up approach to ensure that people live in village like Hawkesbury Upton who take a bus to the railway station in Yate will get there in time to catch the next schedule train . this lack of an ecosystem hold we back . our service operate disjointedly , which be why people simply do not feel that they can rely on public transport to get around . in addition , we need to increase the number of rail service . I have be push for the reopening of station at Charfield and Coalpit Heath as a new solution for people travel to the grow number of job at Severnside , and have be push for the Government to guarantee funding to keep half - hourly train run through Yate . all in all , we need a clear and connected plan to improve our public transport network in order to fix the rot that have set in after year of conservative cut and neglect , and to ensure that everyone have a regular service that they can depend upon . it be a pleasure to follow the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) , and I congratulate the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on secure this debate . public transport in Leeds South West and Morley be a lifeline for many of my constituent and I . I will focus on bus travel today , as it be the no . 1 transport issue that my constituent raise with I . I have plenty of content on the railway and the tram , but I will leave that for another time . without bus travel , many more rural community , such as those in Ardsley , Robin Hood , Thorpe and Lofthouse in my constituency , simply would not have the mean to access essential service , as other member have say . in Farnley and Wortley , on the other side of my constituency , we depend on a small number of bus service , which leave we far more expose when those service fail . Morley , despite be the large population centre in my constituency , be not immune to all the problem we have come to associate with bus travel . I have rely heavily on the bus service in Churwell and Morley . the 51 and the 52 get I to school 20 year ago , and I remember be frustrate with the service even then . I swear that if I be ever in a position to do something about it , I would , which be why I be very grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this debate , and to be part of this Labour Government . we need a public transport system on which we can rely . we need to try something different , because the status quo obviously be not work . the Ardsley and Robin Hood council ward in my constituency have no town centre , and part of it be very remote , so bus be essential for resident who do not have a car . we do not have reliable route into Leeds city centre either , and despite all this , route keep be cut , include very recently by a private provider , leave resident isolate . these route include the 212 service that go through East Ardsley , into Tingley and right through to Wakefield city centre . fortunately , thank to the work of local councillor and the West Yorkshire combine authority , we have manage to find a new provider for the route , start in January . obviously , this count as a victory for local resident , but we can not rely on such stick - plaster solution . we can not scrabble around to find new private provider every time somebody cut a bus route . that be not to say that all private bus company be bad — far from it . in my previous role as a councillor for Farnley and Wortley , I be very happy to work with First in Leeds on deal with antisocial behaviour on the 42 route that go through my ward . I be so grateful for the work of First and the police to end that antisocial behaviour and restore the bus route . first have always be willing to engage with I on issue affect its bus route , even when it have not be able to solve the problem . however , I do not want to rely on the hope that every private provider be as willing to engage with I as First have be . we all know that private provider have to cut route that be not profitable or subsidise , or if they go bankrupt , even if those route be essential to vulnerable community . that be why we need a long - term solution . West Yorkshire be very fortunate to have Mayor Tracy Brabin , who have put public transport at the heart of her mission to change how we get around our region . I welcome the news that a franchising system will be introduce in West Yorkshire in 2027 . that can not come soon enough . it will give we direct control over the bus company and the bus route , so that we can finally put people before profit in our public transport system . Mayor Brabin ' s work closely align with this Government ' s strong commitment to fix the broken bus network across our country . the new bus Bill will end the postcode lottery of bus service and deliver the big overhaul to our bus system in 40 year . while that move be welcome by my constituent in Leeds South West and Morley , it be imperative that we continue to ensure that bus remain sustainable . that be why I welcome the £ 1 billion of investment in bus funding recently announce by the Government , include £ 36 million for West Yorkshire . that have help we to extend the £ 2 . 50 price cap for the whole of 2025 , and to secure route like the 212 . I respect a lot of the point make by Liberal Democrat Members , but I point out that whereas the bus fare cap be go to be abolish next year , a new cap have be introduce because of the action of this Government . yes , it be high , but it be none the less a cap that will keep exponential fare rise down . return to Leeds , I predict that the next two year will be vital to our bus network . as we build towards franchising in 2027 , we must sustain a good level of service until that date and use every tool in our arsenal to do so . I urge my constituent to continue to contact I with problem relate to the bus network in Leeds South West and Morley . I will work with councillor of every party and with the West Yorkshire combine authority to deal with the problem that we encounter before franchising . the Minister be one of my neighbour , and have hear I set out all the argument to do with , and problem in , my constituency , and as well as some of the solution . can he tell I if there be any other tool that I can use to help my constituent in the build - up to franchising in 2027 , should problem arise before that date ? to conclude , we can not understate the significance of effective public transport . community in Leeds South West and Morley rely on it . I can tell they that we be genuinely get on with the job of fix our bus network . it be time that my constituent have access to the public transport that they deserve . I congratulate the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) on her excellent maiden speech . when I be first elect , I think it would be difficult to get to know my 71 liberal Democrat colleague , but I realise that the challenge be considerably big for those on the Labour Benches , so I wish she well with that . I congratulate my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on secure this important debate . I pay tribute to she and her colleague on Somerset council for their work over recent year , in very difficult circumstance . the previous Government may have introduce the bus fare cap , but that do not go far enough to outweigh the decimation of public transport and bus service over decade in this country , both by central Government and Somerset county council , which cut service throughout Somerset . for example , in 2019 , shortly before the Liberal Democrats take control of Somerset , the Conservative county council propose close the park and ride service in Taunton . Park and ride be vital to the whole system of integrated public transport , and be an innovation of the noughtie , build by a Liberal Democrat council . although there be plan for the closure of the park and ride service , my colleague who run the district council step up and save it . they restructure fare , and the service be now once again profitable and do not require a subsidy . that show that with a commitment to public transport and political will , such service can be make viable and can be sustain . during these year of real challenge for local government , I give credit to Somerset council for bring back night bus . I be delighted to meet the first night bus out of Taunton , which mean we can now travel between Taunton and Wellington in my constituency until midnight every night on a weekday . I be out there with Mike drive his first night bus last year . it be a fantastic improvement . the fare cap in Taunton mean that ticket be reduce to £ 1 , not just £ 2 . shockingly , follow privatisation , which be refer to by my hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( John Milne ) , the company close the bus station in Taunton and sell it off . I be delighted that the council be bring forward plan to have a transport hub once again in Taunton town centre , so that people do not have to stand shiver on pavement in the county town , get rain on , to catch bus . I credit the Government for the £ 6 million in bus service improvement plan funding , which be genuinely welcome . we would obviously have like more and it be disappointing to see the bus cap increase to £ 3 . as the hon . member for East Thanet rightly point out , no money be pledge to support that service by the last Government . I understand the challenge , but we would have tax big bank and big energy company more , as my hon . friend the Member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) point out , so that we could fund some of these thing to a high level . before I leave bus service , I must mention that in my constituency of Taunton and Wellington , there be one part of Somerset where young people — student — get no discount at all on their bus fare . if they want to attend college as a sixth - former in my part of Somerset , they have to pay £ 900 per year just to get there and back . that be a prohibitively high bus fare to pay to get to college . I be work closely with councillor on Somerset council and I hope it will be possible to bring forward a discount scheme for student in our part of Somerset , like those that exist in other part of Somerset and other part of the country . I will move on to the vital importance of rail in Taunton and Wellington and my part of Somerset . we have the fantastic West Somerset steam railway , which I invite all hon . member to come and visit . it take we from Bishops Lydeard , just outside Taunton , down to Minehead and the famous Butlin ' s — I know that all member will want to go there , and they can enjoy the steam journey over to it . a strategic outline business case have recently be submit by West Somerset Railway to the Department for Transport to connect that railway with Taunton station so that it would have a mainline station connection , provide both a commuter service to Bishops Lydeard on the edge of Taunton and direct access to one of the good heritage railway in the country . perhaps more important than any of those thing be the Wellington and Cullompton station project . I recognise that there be station opening project across the country that Members across the House will be champion as their favourite , but I must say that my understanding of the Wellington and Cullompton station project be that , because it be a two - station project that would deliver two station in one , it have the good benefit - cost ratio of any railway station reopen project in the country at 3 . 67 . I say that like I understand Treasury benefit - cost ratio number ; I only wish that be true . I be reliably inform , however , that anything above one be a really high benefit - cost ratio . on that ground alone , the project should qualify for funding , and it would bring £ 3 . 3 million of benefit to the local economy . after all , growth be vital to the whole country , and reopen Wellington station would unlock thousand of home around Wellington . we have a town council that want Wellington to thrive and grow . the project to bring that railway station be very close to get shovel in the ground . in July , the project have reach its final business case . the detailed design be ongoing — there be just a small amount of money need to complete it — and then the Government freeze the whole programme . however , I be assure by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Budget debate that the station would go ahead . we be still wait to hear why the most financially beneficial station reopen project in the country have not yet get the go - ahead . I be very grateful to Lord Hendy , the Minister for Rail , for the two meeting we have have . I know that the Government be supportive and sympathetic , but we need this project to get back on track — I be sorry , but it be impossible to avoid railway pun in this debate . the station be so ready to be build . we have a lot of third - party funding come in . the access road and the car park be fund by a third - party developer . Cullompton , in the neighbouring constituency , be put in similar third - party funding . we urgently need that project to go ahead . we wish to secure the economic growth that Somerset need , but we have lose £ 2 billion - worth of transport project over the past few month . the A303 and the A358 have be cancel . we desperately need a bypass for the village of Thornfalcon and Henlade , which that A358 project would have complete . with all these project be take away , surely it be time that we receive the funding for the new station project at Wellington and Cullompton , with all its excellent economic growth impact . I congratulate the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on secure this debate . she have create a safe space where all us tram , bus and train nerd can come together without fear of persecution , and we should be grateful for that . it be great to share this debate with my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) . she have already prove herself to be a very diligent member of the Transport Committee . I congratulate she on her maiden speech today — well do . this be a welcome debate . in the few year run up to the general election , the public discourse around transport feel like we be stick in a narrative about cyclist versus driver — as if they be not the same people a lot of the time — and also about low - traffic neighbourhood . what we should have be speak about be public transport . if we be serious about grow the economy , cut congestion , reduce climate emission and create a more equal society , we should be talk about public transport generally , and bus specifically . so far , the speech today have focus on the thing that be not work , so I want to talk about something that be work : the bus service in Edinburgh . hopefully , we can draw some lesson from that . the service be not without its challenge , and it could be well , but it be , none the less , pretty good . People who arrive in London for the first time say that one of the thing that define London for they be the tube . it be the memory they take away and what they speak to people about . they buy t - shirt and all the rest of it . in Edinburgh , it be the bus that define we . I always say that our excellent bus service define the city just as much as the castle do . so what be this bus service like ? People can travel on any route in the city as far as they like for £ 2 — so , we have that £ 2 cap . the driver be among the well pay driver in the country . the workforce be heavily unionised . I think union membership be well over 90 % . that be not a challenge , because the union work in complete partnership with the manage director and the management team . it be a really good example . I have the Lothian Buses Longstone garage in my constituency . the staff there be key to Lothian Buses become the bus operator of the year in the UK . I invite the Minister to come along and visit the garage and meet the staff and the management team at his convenience . what I always say be that if people get on the bus , they will see all of Edinburgh . there be of course the fantastic view . the castle be not quite in my constituency , but it can be see from a bus in my constituency , so I will claim it . the people who use the bus service in Edinburgh be a complete cross - section of the population . young , old , rich and less affluent people be all there together on the bus , which be fantastic . not every city can claim that . my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) point out that the view from the top deck of his bus be fantastic . I want to put it on the record that the good seat in a bus be on the top deck , right at the front , above the driver . I see that there be broad agreement . it be not very controversial , which be excellent . the bus service in Edinburgh receive no real subsidy from the local authority or the Government , apart from for old people and young people . it actually provide a dividend to the council , which own the service . last year , it give a £ 3 million dividend back to the city . it be a fantastic service that be cheap , have well pay staff , and pay a dividend back to its owner . what be the secret to its success ? I would say that it be public ownership . I do not think that all these thing be a coincidence — that the service just happen to be publicly own . public ownership be at the heart of it . there be an unwritten social contract between Lothian Buses and the city . it provide a network that support the city as a whole . it do not focus , as a private operator would , just on the route that make it lot of money and forget about the rest of the city ; it provide the network , and there be a kind of cross - subsidy within it , whereby less viable route be support by the more well use route . that be really important , particularly if we want to create more equal city use transport . since the election , the discussion about franchising in England have be really powerful . we already have those power in Scotland , but it have take time for they to be fully use , and there be funding issue . right across England , there be real excitement about the use of franchising power . my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard make the case for get the balance of those power absolutely right so that we can move these scheme forward at pace . that be really important . it be not just about give local authority franchise power , or even the funding to deliver the service quickly . the other thing that we have to think about be ensure that our local authority and local leader be able to put priority measure in place on the ground for our bus to move around the city quickly . that mean bus lane and priority measure at junction so that we can keep people move . in Edinburgh , there be much more that we need to do . we repeatedly ask the Scottish Government for more funding to make that happen fast . in Edinburgh , around 40 % of trip inside the city be on a bus , but the percentage of the road space that be allocate just to bus be absolutely tiny , and every square metre of it be hard fight for . franchising alone will not solve this issue ; we have to support the deployment of these scheme right across the UK . when it come to bus lane and priority measure at junction , we need to think about the economy , congestion and climate , and create more equal city . we must not be too reactionary , but think about the benefit that a well bus service can bring to we all and engage in consultation with the community on that basis . I congratulate the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on secure this important debate . it be a pleasure to hear the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) — wonderful stuff . as many member have do , I massively welcome the debate . it be a hugely important topic . public transport be vital to not only the connectivity and economic growth of our community , but the wellbeing of our resident . for so many people who can not afford a car , public transport be a lifeline , allow they to get to work , to school , to see friend and family , and to visit doctor and hospital . without good , reliable public transport link , our community suffer , as so many sadly do today in my constituency of Rossendale and Darwen . it be vital that we get to grip with this issue , so I be encourage by the work that the Government have do so far to begin the work of rebuild our public transport link after the stark disinterest of the previous Government . I welcome the trans - Pennine route upgrade , which will ensure that our key town in the north be well connect , with fast and more frequent train . with that great connectivity and mobility , we can begin to address the constraint that have hold back our northern economy for many year . alongside that , I be pleased to see the commitment to a furth £ 650 million for transport link outside of city . that be much need , with line like those serve Darwen in my constituency cry out for improvement as they suffer constant cancellation and delay . I also hope that this will be an opportunity to address leave - behind area , such as Rossendale , where one in four of my resident commute into Manchester and yet we be the only local authority area in the north without any sort of commuter rail link . that result in 79 % of journey be by car , with all the resultant congestion and air pollution . the City Valley rail link propose by our borough council and county council would be an absolute game changer . it would take half a million car off the road and enable up to 5 , 000 job . to I , it be the definition of a no - brainer and an example of exactly the sort of connectivity issue that we need to address if we be to genuinely deliver on our growth mission . similarly , I be delighted to see the Government ' s recent commitment to £ 1 billion of funding to support our local bus network , with area in my constituency receive million of pound in support . we can now begin the vital work of strengthen our bus route , many of which have face year of unending cut . in my constituency , village such as Edgeworth , Edenfield and Weir have long feel cut off , and we need to judge the value of restore those connection for not just short - term passenger number , but with consideration of all the social , wellbee and economic benefit that come from connect remote community with the service , training and employment opportunity they need . I recently write to Lancashire county council and Blackburn with Darwen council call on the leadership to work with I to ensure the new funding be use to address the long - stand connectivity issue , and I reiterate that call now . in Rossendale and Darwen , the bus issue be compound by cross - border challenge , and I be pleased to see other colleague recognise that fundamental issue . with many key service cross between Lancashire , West Yorkshire and Greater Manchester , the local government area have not traditionally work well together , and we have suffer from that lack of join - up thinking . we can not discuss improve transport link without discuss improvement to local authority structure . as we be see in Manchester with the Bee Network , an empower mayor and an effective combine authority can turbocharge the development of efficient , reactive , join - up and innovative transport infrastructure that serve resident and grow the economy . yet , in county such as Lancashire , with an out - of - date two - tier structure and no mayor , we lack a strong voice and a coherent , join - up transport strategy . that be why there be a press need , central to any effort to tangibly improve public transport , to pursue fully fledged devolution deal for every area of the country . only with empower local leader work together to quickly recognise local need and opportunity can we have the sort of public transport system that our country and my resident in Rossendale and Darwen need . I congratulate the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on secure the debate and my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) on her maiden speech . it be an exciting speech to get off the list . I be fortunate enough to be a Londoner , and not just any Londoner but one lucky enough to be from south of the river , which be the right side , but I have the good sense to marry a northerner . hear , hear ! there you go . as a Londoner who grow up with a well - integrate , well - run and efficient public transport system , I know when I raise issue around under - investment from the Government into our service , there will be colleague who represent constituency such as the one my husband grow up in who have to wait an hour for a bus to the near town and who will have little sympathy for this whinge Londoner . however , fourteen year of failure from the previous Government have leave public transport in every part of our country fail to keep pace with the need of the people who rely on it . on their watch , cancel train journey rise to a record high ; passenger have have to navigate 55 million different type of ticket option ; and bus be drive 300 million few mile per year compare with 2010 . for our corner of south London , the previous Government ' s mismanagement lead to cancel scheme , fail project and accessibility for passenger be ignore . Croydon be London ' s most populated borough with a project population growth of 7 . 9 % by 2041 . in my constituency last year , East Croydon station have over 20 million journey pass through its gate , make it the 21st most use station in Great Britain . for my constituent , use East Croydon station mean deal with congestion , antisocial behaviour and a fail footbridge project that be now know locally as " the bridge to nowhere . " the project , originally design to improve accessibility to the station , have be beset by delay and cause endless frustration for resident . after a decade of inaction and local taxpayer ' money go into the project , Network Rail have now downgrade its plan and remove direct access to platform , which have cause more frustration for passenger and more congestion at the station , add insult to injury for my community . under the previous Government , the Croydon area remodelle scheme — a scheme design to address congestion on the Brighton main line and upgrade Croydon ' s train station — be shelve . as that scheme be no long go ahead , Norwood Junction station in my constituency , which be the 79th busy station in Britain , will not get the investment that it desperately need — no improvement to platform , no improvement to service and no improvement to accessibility — and the addition of a new lift have be deem too complicated by Network Rail without the scheme ' s wide improvement . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to improve public transport across every part of our country , to put passenger first , and to work with our regional mayor , not against they . not only do that mean more region of our country will benefit from public control of bus network and from train service with few delay , but for my constituency it mean a Labour Government work with a Labour mayor to finally give we the tram that we so desperately need . yes , I be fortunate to be a Londoner who have have access to all the public transport that I could possibly need , but with a Government who invest in every region , we can do so much more . we come to the final Back - Bench speech . I thank the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) for secure the debate . I be grateful in particular to my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) , who show the depth of her knowledge and understanding of this important matter . I have an observation about the Opposition Benches , however , Madam Deputy Speaker . it appear that you wait all day for a Tory MP to turn up to a debate on public transport — and none do . indicate dissent . with the exception , of course , of the shadow Minister — who be oblige to be here . I be also grateful that the scope of the debate be widen beyond the west country , as I represent the second easternmost constituency in the country : the far eastern corner of the Isle of Thanet . hundred of year ago , up to Tudor time , we be cut off from the rest of the country by the River Wantsum . I fear that the legacy of the conservative party be that they try their good to effectively reinstate our island status by gutte our public transport and cut we off from the rest of the country . fortunately , however , when it come to train , there be a Labour Government legacy , thank in particular to the support and involvement of my labour predecessor , Stephen Ladyman — a former MP for South Thanet and Transport Minister — and , of course , of the late , great John Prescott . they make enormous progress on connectivity and public transport , salvage the high - speed rail project from which my constituency benefit so much as it link we to London and the rest of the UK , with all the economic benefit that follow . I and other , include my constituent and colleague from across Kent , strongly advocate for the return of international service to Ashford on the high - speed rail line , because of all the economic benefit that would deliver . it be already on the record that Kent see a massive reduction in bus service under the previous Government , with 20 % few bus mile than under the previous Labour Government . the Government ' s announcement on bus funding be extremely welcome , especially as Kent have receive the high proportion of funding in the whole of the south - east , at £ 23 million . that funding , combine with the new power for local authority , mean that Tory - run Kent county council have the ability to reverse the cut in bus mile , and I implore it to use the power and money to do so . there may be member on the other side of the Chamber — it be difficult to see any — who be entirely unfamiliar with bus timetable as they all stick to their car . however , in Broadstairs , where huge swathe of the town have no access to bus service at all , an old person would be leave to walk , cycle or — much more likely — rely on lift from friend , family or taxi . the sheer expense of rely on taxi as a primary mode of transport be enormous , unsustainable and fundamentally unfair . this have create a situation where , if someone become ill and be in need of NHS service , they be force to pay for a taxi when they may not be able to afford one , or — as often happen — simply go without medical treatment . this be particularly challenging , as a lot of NHS service in East Thanet have be move inland . that be an all - too - common issue in coastal community such as mine ; for example , in east Kent , our orthopaedic centre be locate in Canterbury . there be now no direct bus from Broadstairs or Ramsgate to Canterbury , so people with mobility issue face barrier to treatment . for some , make that extend journey mean take time off work . that have ramification for our economy , as people who need treatment have to take time off work when they otherwise would not . that often force people to simply go without treatment in the early stage of their illness , which can only make they sicker and place more cost on the NHS far down the line . not only be this damaging to the sick people themselves , it stunt the economy and put excess strain on public service . this be not the only way in which a lack of public transport option hurt our economy ; it also impact the regeneration of our local high street . I have many constituent who would much prefer to do their shopping in person on our local high street , contribute to our local economy , but who now feel that they have no option but to switch to online shopping because of the lack of transport option , since they do not drive . let I tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that when I have suggest it might be possible to have a bus connect Ramsgate train station to Ramsgate high street , you would have think from some people ' s face that I be ask to bend the law of physics . we have be so used to the idea that this be simply impossible . reliable , affordable , accessible and safe transport be a matter of social and economic justice . I applaud all the action that the Government be take to regenerate our high street , which be a major issue in East Thanet that the ramsgate empty shop campaign be seek to work with the Government on , but if people can not get to those high street , I fear we will not make the progress that we rightly want . although we have a significant new Secretary of State with responsibility for this area , we also need to think about the legacy of previous Secretaries of State — in particular , Barbara Castle . when she be first appoint by Harold Wilson , she turn around to the Prime Minister and say , " you do know , Harold , that I can ' t drive ? " in the late ' 60 , this be see as hamper her ability to be a suitable Transport Secretary , but in his wisdom , Harold Wilson say , " yes , Barbara — exactly . " that be the point . think of the change that she be able to make , not only to public transport but to road safety , give we a strong legacy that have last all my lifetime and , I hope , much far beyond . good public transport be fundamental to achieve the Government ' s mission , in the same way that it be fundamental to we be able to live our own life and achieve our own ambition : simply to get up , go to work , access the service we need , get home safely and see the people we love . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I commend the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) on her excellent maiden speech , and congratulate she on have the old road in her constituency — and doubtless , the old pothole as well . I also commend my hon . friend the Members for Horsham ( John Milne ) , for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) and the hon . member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) , for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) , for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mr Sewards ) , for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) and for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , who speak with one voice on the dire state of public transport in many of our rural area . I agree with my friend , the hon . member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) : before become transport spokesman , I do not realise how lucky we be in London . although our constituent have legitimate complaint at time , we do not know how lucky we be . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) , and I echo her question to the Minister regard the disruption to commuter from the south - west cause by the HS2 work on Old Oak Common . what can be do to minimise that disruption ? as we have hear from colleague across the House , the current state of public transport simply be not good enough . ticket price be too high , service be too unreliable , infrastructure be too old and capacity be too meagre — and that be just for those who have access to public transport . too many part of our country have no meaningful access to public transport whatsoever . after year of route be cut and timetable be foreshorten , many people no long have access to a regular bus service despite live many mile distant from any rail network . this be hamper our economy , hold back local community and damage our high street . our public transport system should be the engine of growth and opportunity , not an impediment to they . if we be to reach the Government target on economic growth and net zero we must take rapid and urgent step to improve our public transport provision . we simply do not have time to tarry . let I be clear : my party and I have huge sympathy for the Minister , the Secretary of State and the Government . everyone know they inherit a mess from the previous regime ' s chaos and miss opportunity . year of under - investment , chop , change and rudderless leadership have leave our public transport in turmoil , and I appreciate and publicly acknowledge the new Government ' s worthy intention and evident desire to improve the situation . my party consequently welcome the Government ' s commitment to long overdue rail reform . I be glad to see the first green shoot of positive change . ensure hs2 reach Euston in the first phase of the project be critical to achieve tangible benefit from what be in danger of become an expensive folly , while recent talk of an integrate national transport strategy show that this Government appreciate that something need to change . we welcome the recent announcement on bus , too ; as we have hear today from so many colleague , they be critical to many area — we know you get it . as hon . friend so eloquently argue , despite bus be the most utilise form of public transport in the country , they be regularly not give the attention or funding they deserve , so thank you for that . so far so good , then . however — there be always a " however " — although the Department for Transport be onside , I be not so sure that the Chancellor be , with her real - term cut to the Department ' s day - to - day and capital budget . if she be serious about grow the economy , she need to be serious about properly fund the transport system on which it be build , rather than cut budget and make up the shortfall by hike bus fare by up to 50 % and an above - inflation increase in the cost of travel by train . the hon . Gentleman be not in his place at the time , and indeed neither be I , but it be worthwhile look at the verdict of another transport nerd , a journalist from the Transport Times , back in 2015 , who look at exactly what happen when the Liberal Democrats do have an opportunity to do something about rural bus : in county after county , cut in rural bus service support have be severe . city deal may have be welcome , but the idea that local government might be trust to raise its own funding and decide on priority have slip far into the mist of history . I just think it be worth remind the House of that fact . we be talk about now , and we be talk about the fact that you have reduce the bus fare cap . order — [ interruption . ] order . just a quick reminder that when I be on my foot , member should not be . that be third time the hon . Gentleman have say " you " ; perhaps he will be a bit more careful in the rest of his speech . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be talk about now , and we be talk about the hike in the bus fare cap to £ 3 . it would cost only £ 150 million to keep it at £ 2 accord to the House of Commons Library . I thank the Minister for write to I this week to confirm that a full monitoring and evaluation report have be complete by his Department and will be publish in due course , but why be it not be publish now ? if it be there , we want to see it — what do it say ? I do not doubt the battle the Minister and his colleague be have with their colleague in the Treasury . I know the Department for Transport recognise there be fundamental problem across our public transport system . however , there be still vanishingly little detail on which to form a judgment as to whether it have hit on the right solution . on the railway , for example , yesterday come the long - await announcement of the first three train operate company to be bring back into public ownership . south Western Railway , which I use in my journey this morning , will come into public ownership next May . that much be know . however , what be not know be how that in itself will improve the customer experience and the service offer . as great British Railways will still not formally exist by then , South Western Railway will , at least temporarily , be leave in the hand of the Government ' s operator of last resort , which surely need more than a name change as it assume responsibility for million of extra journey without a clear mission or purpose , without the necessary resource or expertise , without an effective passenger watchdog and without meaningful reform of our break fare system . even when great British Railways arrive at the station , we still have no understanding of how — or even if — this new behemoth will proceed smoothly along the track . uncertainty also shroud many other public transport plan . too many local authority be wait to know what fund and scheme will be maintain and what will be scrap , stifle investment and leave too many area and community adrift , as we can see with the lack of certainty over the northern powerhouse , the electrification of north Wales rail , level up and active travel . that be why we welcome talk of an integrate national transport plan , as it be clear that the current piecemeal approach be let down community and local economy . but the devil will be in the detail , which we need to see soon rather than later . uncertainty likewise surround the Government ' s approach to rebuild our decaying infrastructure . to improve our public transport , we need to get spade into the ground , invest money and effort into electrification and , most importantly , build new infrastructure . while there be widespread public disquiet regard our current public transport provision , there be also deep scepticism about , and often outright opposition to , the major infrastructure project necessary to achieve real improvement . hs2 ' s repeat cost overspend and miss deadline have contribute to an environment in which the public be rightly sceptical about the UK ' s ability to deliver infrastructure on time and within budget . we need to get real . while Bruce Wayne might be rich enough to spend £ 100 million on a bat shed , the british taxpayer be not . the UK do not have the time or resource require to put every rail line in a tunnel . politician across the political spectrum need to promote a more mature dialogue to improve public understanding of the trade - off necessary to improve public transport . as we have see with other large - scale infrastructure project , once they be build , the public reception be overwhelmingly positive , as it be with Crossrail 1 . the benefit of the Elizabeth line be already be laud from read to Romford , with protest long forget . a host of neighbouring mp call for its extension to their constituency in a recent Westminster Hall debate that I attend . so let we be honest about what need to be do and what the Government have learn from these project . let we maintain a steady pipeline of new project to ensure that the billion spend acquire that knowledge , along with the supply chain and skilled workforce we have build up , be not lose . too much time have be waste , and we do not have time to waste . public transport be vital to our economy , to widen opportunity and our transition to net zero . as a Londoner , I realise that I be bless by the public transport system that we have in the capital . despite sometimes justify criticism of Transport for London , it stand as an exemplar of what can be achieve via a co - ordinate transport strategy and a non - ideological approach to ownership , work with both public and private provider to create an integrated transport network . as we hear from colleague across the House , the situation be very different across much of the country . I hope that the Secretary of State and the Chancellor be both listen . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I congratulate the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on successfully apply for the debate , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . public transport be an indispensable part of our national life , play a vital role in our commercial , social and economic existence . we have have an interesting debate this afternoon , with noteworthy contribution from the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton , for Horsham ( John Milne ) , for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) as well as just now from the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) from the Liberal Democrats . from the Government Benches , the first speech be the maiden speech of the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) . it be a thoughtful speech about bus use . I be sure that she will serve her constituent diligently in her time in this place , and I wish she well . she be follow by some capable contribution from the hon . member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) , for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) , for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mr Sewards ) , for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) , for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) and for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) . I will begin by comment on the previous Conservative Government ' s time in office . it may have escape the attention of hon . member that between 2010 and 2024 , the Conservative Government spend more than £ 100 billion operate and enhance our railway . this allow the completion of major project include Crossrail , Thameslink and major upgrade to the east coast main line , the great Anglia main line , the midland main line and the great western main line . we commit £ 36 billion to the Network North programme , which , unless the Labour Government stop it , will deliver long - term transformative transport project that will benefit a great many people in the north of England . the programme be under review by the Government , with no guarantee that any of it will be take forward . obviously , we call on the Government to honour the programme in full . we electrify over 1 , 200 mile of track , compare with the mere 63 mile electrify in the 13 year of the previous Labour Government . some 75 % of rail journey be now take on electrify track . we seek scheme that would reconnect community to our railway , provide new station for passenger to use , such as the propose new station at Edginswell in Torbay , which would complement the delivery of a new station at Marsh Barton near Exeter , and would particularly serve the need of Torbay hospital . I know that Torbay council be a keen advocate for that , and I hope that the Labour Government will offer the same commitment to it that we do . to support our bus network , we invest an unprecedented amount of over £ 3 . 5 billion in the bus sector from March 2020 to support its recovery from the pandemic . we provide £ 525 million of funding to deliver 4 , 000 new British - build electric or hydrogen bus , and we extend the " get around for £ 2 " scheme until the end of 2024 , cap hundred of single bus fare and help passenger reliant on bus with the cost of travel — a scheme that we pledge to maintain for the entirety of this Parliament . I also remind the House of some fact that be curiously miss from the speech of some hon . member , particularly those sit on the Government Benches . let we turn our gaze to Wales , where Labour have be in power for a quarter of a century . the number of journey take on local bus have decline by almost a quarter in the past decade , with a severe impact on those in the most rural area . the Welsh Labour Administration have spend £ 40 million on roll out 20 mph speed limit to try to force motorist on to public transport that the Labour Administration themselves have make less reliable , less regular and less affordable . let we look at London , which have be blight by the leadership of Sadiq Khan for the past eight and a half year . London ' s mayor recently spend £ 6 . 3 million of public money on yet more virtue signalling , rename London overground line — something that I be sure commuter thank he for last week when the Elizabeth line be suspend and five underground line face severe delay . from a man who promise to roll up his sleeve and ensure no more transport strike , we have see more than 130 day of strike during his term of office . we know what the Labour party promise the voter of this country . in its manifesto , it pledge new infrastructure , an overhaul of Britain ' s railway and certainty for car manufacturer . it promise a utopian system of public transport . but the method by which the Government have set out to achieve that have be depressingly predictable . one of the Labour Government ' s first act be to provide train driver with inflation - bust pay rise , without secure any productivity improvement for passenger at all . that bribe to the union have , entirely predictably , fail to prevent repeat threat of further strike action . then , as part of the Welsh Government ' s ongoing war against rural community , they cut £ 1 . 3 billion - worth of road improvement scheme . the Government then increase the previous Conservative Government ' s £ 2 bus fare cap to £ 3 , increase fare on hundred of bus route across the country . [ interruption . ] totally predictably , I get heckled about it not be pay for . as hon . member will be aware once they have be in this place for a little long , Government scheme be fund for particular period of time , and then the funding be review . the new £ 3 bus far cap , cost bus user 50 % more than the previous cap , be guarantee only until the end of next year , whereas the conservative party ' s manifesto commitment be to retain the cap at £ 2 for the whole of the Parliament . finally , and perhaps most notably , the Government have introduce and pass the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 . instead of implement the measured and sensible reform set out in the Williams - Shapps review , the Government have pass an Act that will neither improve passenger experience nor make significant saving . indeed , it may prove to cost the taxpayer significantly more . the Government insist that saving to the taxpayer will amount to £ 150 million because of the removal of fee pay to train operating company . even if that be correct , it will amount to a saving of a mere 0 . 6 % of what be currently spend on the railway , and even that tiny figure be in doubt . analysis conduct by rail partner suggest that remove the incentive to control cost could lead to annual subsidy be at least £ 1 billion high by the end of this Parliament . from whatever angle one look at it , it be hard to see this Act as anything other than an ideological move — one that have more to do with attempt to appease the radical element of the Labour party , hungry for old - fashioned , hard - left policy , than the good of the passenger and the taxpayer . I just want to give the hon . Gentleman the opportunity to confirm that the Tory Government be perfectly comfortable with public ownership of train operating company as long as they belong to government of other country in Europe . the previous Government be prepared to do what work , rather than follow ideology in spite of evidence to the contrary . I have be the shadow Transport Secretary for 31 day and I be already on my second Secretary of State . I have know the new Secretary of State for almost two decade , since our time as councillor represent our respective London borough on the London Councils transport and environment committee . she be not in her place today — secretary of State can not be everywhere ; that be why they have junior Ministers . I be sure that the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , will ably deputise for she this afternoon . I cross path with the new Secretary of State when I be conservative leader on the London Assembly and she be appoint the deputy Mayor for Transport . unfortunately , during her time at City Hall , London witness 28 strike on Transport for London service , a 77 % increase in complaint about TfL over three year , an extension of the hate ultra low emission zone , and , perhaps most concerning of all , a £ 4 billion overspend and three - year delay in the opening of the Elizabeth line . in defence of the right hon . Lady , though , the buck for all those failing do not stop with she — it stop with the Mayor of London . the right hon . Lady be , in fact , somebody for whom I have a high personal regard , and I look forward to welcome she to her place . it be fair to say that the Conservatives have doubt about the start make by this Government . however , have say all that , I emphasise that his Majesty ' s opposition will not oppose the Government just for the sake of it . I do not believe that a single member of this House want a public transport system that fail . as I say at the outset , public transport be an indispensable part of our national life , and a successful transport system be vital to both our present and our future . if the Government get thing right , we will acknowledge that . where they get they wrong , we will continue to hold they to account . I call the Minister . I thank the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) for secure this important debate on improve public transport . I believe we have reach our destination , Madam Deputy Speaker , have hear the last of the labour maiden speech , and of course we have save one of the good for last . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) on her fantastic contribution , and very much look forward to work with she in her capacity as a member of the Transport Committee . I also thank the other hon . member who have speak for their insightful point . I be pleased to respond for the Government , and will do my good to address the issue that they have raise . I start my response by emphasise that this Government be put the need of passenger front and centre of our transport reform . we fully recognise the importance of public transport to our community in rural area , town and city . deliver well , it enable people to access work and education opportunity , and to access the shop , leisure activity and essential service that they need . it can sustain and improve economic growth and productivity , unlock housing and commercial development opportunity , and connect people to each other , to business and market , and to international gateway . however , there be lot of work to be do to improve our public transport . many people and place suffer from poor connectivity and challenging journey , which impact both their quality of life and their access to opportunity . that be why the Government be focus on improve performance on the railway and drive forward rail reform ; improve bus service and grow bus usage across the country ; transform infrastructure , so that it work for the whole country ; promote social mobility ; and tackle regional inequality . we have be make progress . last week , the Government set out their plan to develop an integrate national transport strategy , which will set out how all mode of transport should be design , build and operate to well serve all the people who use they and enable they to live a fulfilling life . to kick - start that process , on 28 November the Department launch a public call for idea , seek to capture people ' s view and experience of transport across England and what could be do to improve it . deliver an effective , efficient and integrated public transport system that meet the regional and national need of people , wherever they live and work , will play a vital role in deliver the mission of this Government . my hon . friend be talk about the regional and national economic growth strategy . I urge he and his friend in the Department to consider whether we need a strategy for public transport in our coastal community . they suffer from poor connectivity , which reduce our ability to grow our economy all year round . have grow up in a coastal community , I understand that they have unique challenge . I will of course take that point away to the Department . the important work to improve service have already begin . we start reform transport on day one after the general election . take bus , the most commonly use mode of public transport in Britain . the Government have ambitious plan to improve service and grow passenger number . we know how important bus service be to community up and down the country , particularly in rural area , where , for many , bus can be a lifeline , and the only way of get around and access vital service . bus cut be absolutely devastating for the woman I speak to who could not get her weekly shop , the young man I meet who have to leave for work hour early to try to get multiple bus , and the husband who could not get a bus to the care home his wife be in . since 2008 , the east midland have suffer bus cut of 60 % — more than any other region . do the Minister agree that regional inequality be at the heart of this debate , and that it be far past time that we see investment in our bus ? absolutely , of course . we need to ensure that we have effective , efficient and affordable public transport in every single corner of the country . in September , we take the first step in empower local leader by introduce a statutory instrument to expand franchising power beyond mayoral combine authority to all local transport authority . we also consult on new guidance for local leader look to bring service into public control . this new , simplified guidance will help to break down barrier to local control of bus service , speed up the process and bring down cost . of course , the bus Bill will empower local leader by give they the tool that they need to address local public transport challenge , include by make further change to simplify bus franchising and by create locally own bus company . we have already see example of the improvement that local leader can make to service . to take my favourite example , the Bee Network in Manchester be on course to complete the re - regulation of bus in its new network in the new year . it will become the first city region outside London to put bus fully back under public control after four decade of deregulation . this new bus network franchise have see increase in both patronage and punctuality . we be back up those reform with new funding for bus next year . in the Budget , the Government confirm that there would be more than £ 1 billion to help local transport authority and operator to deliver high - quality , reliable public service . that include £ 150 million to deliver the new £ 3 fare cap , which will ensure that passenger have access to affordable fare and well opportunity ; £ 712 million for local authority to continue to support and improve their bus service ; and £ 243 million for the bus service operator grant . that be give directly to bus operator to support and protect exist service . that funding be the next stop on our journey towards improve service . every region in England will benefit . the money will make a real difference for people across the country , and could be use to fund more frequent service , so that people can get to more place more often ; safe , well and more accessible bus stop ; new electric bus ; or well real - time information , so that passenger can be confident that their bus will turn up . of course , it be not just bus passenger who want their service to run on time . on railway , we have be clear that service have be fail passenger . performance be inconsistent across the country , and in many area , the service be not where it need to be . improve performance be a key priority , and we will continue to challenge the worst - perform train operating company and their Network Rail counterpart to address poor performance and raise standard . just as with bus , we have be make progress . we have resolve long - run industrial dispute over pay , end the massive disruption and financial impact of national strike and reset industrial relation . that pave the way for more collaboration with the trade union , and the delivery of a railway that work for everyone . as well as continue to fund the operation of the railway , we be commit to invest to deliver improvement for passenger . we be simplify and modernise the rail fare and ticket system , and have already make great progress . we have drive forward pay - as - you - go in the south - east through the delivery of Project Oval phase 1a . in 2025 we will see further phase of Project Oval go live , which will include Stansted . we have also have complete a detailed design of pay - as - you - go scheme in the west midland , and Greater Manchester plan to launch digital pay - as - you - go trial in 2025 . we continue to progress long - distance fare reform , with trial on London North Eastern Railway . look forward , we have commit ourselves to undertake a fare review , which be to be complete over 2025 , and we will also continue to invest in infrastructure . just last week , the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , which receive Royal Assent on 28 November , enable we to bring passenger service operation back into public ownership , start with South Western Railway ' s service in May 2025 , c2c ' s in July and Greater Anglia ' s in the autumn . you mention infrastructure — the Minister ! the Minister ! what do I say ? [ hon . member : " you say ' you ' " . ] do I ? sorry ! the Minister mention infrastructure . we have see significant delay on the line from the west country in the last few week owe to flooding . in particular , train be have to divert between Bristol Parkway and Swindon and have to go via Bath and Chippenham . local resident fear that the work to try to stop flood on that length of the line , which be very prone to flooding , may have lead to their house be flood . will the Minister meet I to discuss the infrastructure issue on that section of the railway ? I will make sure that I pass that request to the Minister with responsibility for rail , who I be sure will be pleased to meet you . within this Parliament , all passenger service operation will have complete the transition to be manage by Great British Railways , which we will establish as the direct mind for the railway by introduce further legislation during this session . great British Railways will ensure the high standard of customer service and operational performance , and will simplify the railway , bring together the delivery of passenger service , infrastructure , and responsibility for planning and the use of the network . it will bring an end to year of fragmentation and waste . however , we be not wait for this further legislation . we have already bring key part of the rail industry together as Shadow Great British Railways , which be work to improve service , unblock barrier to delivery , and move the rail network towards great financial sustainability . although we must and will improve the railway in the short term , we must also think about the long term . we be commit to set out a long - term rail strategy that will provide a framework for the industry over the next 30 year . we will work with stakeholder to ensure that the strategy maximise the benefit of rail for everyone , because improvement have to benefit everyone who use our public transport system . this Government want everyone to have access to public transport , and be commit to support improvement to service so that they be more inclusive and enable everyone to travel safely , confidently and with dignity . I be particularly strike by what my hon . friend be say about make sure that everybody have access to what they need . he will have hear what I say about access healthcare via public transport . as we be talk about integrate our transport strategy into other strategy that might achieve our overall Government mission , will due regard be give to where exist health service be provide when make decision about where we will put infrastructure ? you make a powerful point . I would encourage you to make a submission to the integrated transport — order . the Minister have do it three time now . if I can tell off new member , I can certainly tell off long - stand one . no " yous " in the Chamber ! I be quite flattered to be call a long - stand Member , Madam Deputy Speaker . improvement to the transport system have to benefit everyone . as I say , this Government want everyone to have access to public transport . the first phase of the accessible information regulation come into force early this year . they require bus and coach that have be use on local service since October 2019 to provide audible and visual route and destination announcement , help everyone to travel with confidence . we have commit to work with disabled people to develop and publish an accessibility road map , which will set out the step be take to improve rail accessibility . through the Access for all programme , we be continue to work to provide step - free access route to railway station . all these effort be impossible without local partner . this Government recognise that decision on how and where to intervene to improve local transport should be make locally . that be why we work to strengthen the relationship between central Government and local leader in the first few day after come to power , work in partnership with they to develop and deliver their priority . on funding , we be committed to simplify the local transport funding landscape for local authority , end inefficient competition and allow place more flexibility to decide the transport project that will most benefit their area . the city region sustainable transport settlement provide the large city region with long - term funding , and empower mayor to deliver infrastructure project that will have transformative effect on transport and be base on their local priority , improve the life of people in their great city region . look ahead , we be commit to give local government multi - year funding settlement at the forthcoming spending review to help it make long - term plan for transport in different area , back up by deepen regional devolution . high - quality transport infrastructure support growth and opportunity , and bring decision about transport close to people be key to improve the transport network on which we rely every day . we will therefore empower local leader to take great oversight of their local transport network . we be committed to simplify the local transport funding landscape for local authority , end the inefficient competition to which I refer . we be use datum and research to continue to build our understanding of what people need from the transport network , and we be continue to invest in it . we be take a long - term view to get the right mix of exist project and new scheme in order to deliver a public transport system that be fit for the 21st century . reliable , affordable , safe and accessible transport that work for passenger and efficiently move good around the country be key to economic growth and people access opportunity . People travel for a purpose , whether it be to get to work or education , to access service such as hospital and shop , or to meet family and friend . we be work hard to ensure that our public transport network and service be more accessible , available and affordable to those who rely on they the most , wherever they live and work . we be continue to build strong relationship with our devolved partner to ensure that public transport be serve the need of local community . the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton raise a number of specific transport issue in her constituency . I will , of course , be happy to address those very specific issue outside the Chamber , but I now turn to the core theme , start with the integrate national transport strategy . the Government ' s manifesto commit to develop a long - term strategy for transport , and it say " transport service have remain fragmented and inefficient with company and sector fail to speak to and plan with each other . " this Government want to focus on how transport can be design , build and operate to well serve all people who use it , and to enable they to live fulfilling life . rural bus service have be mention quite a lot in this debate . by give local transport authority more power to deliver the model that work well for their area , and by give they flexibility on funding , they can deliver comprehensive bus network , include the use of demand - responsive transport where appropriate and desire , to make bus service work for all community , include in rural area . the bus Bill will put decision making in the hand of local leader across England , include those in rural area , to determine how good to design their local bus service so that they have control over route and schedule . bus franchising can be for all area of the country , and it be not reserve for place like Manchester , which have do it so effectively . we be look at various franchising model , which we hope to expand on during the Bill ' s passage . member have raise the need for real - time information , and I totally agree . such information be important in empower people to make effective decision and in raise people ' s confidence , particularly woman and girl , to go out and use public transport , as they know whether the bus will turn up on time or whether they should wait a little long before go out for the bus . these little thing can make a lot of difference to passenger confidence . as part of the Budget , we confirm more than £ 1 billion for the 2025 - 26 financial year to support bus service in England , outside London , and to keep fare affordable . the current £ 2 cap on single bus fare have be due to expire at the end of this year , but it will now be replace by a £ 3 cap to help million of people access well opportunity and to promote great bus use . I thank the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) and for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) and my hon . friend the Member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) for their contribution . on accessibility , the Rail Minister have commit to work with the disabled community to develop and publish an accessibility road map ahead of GBR be set up . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) . as I mention a moment ago , franchising can meet the need of community of all shape and size across the country , and I hope we can demonstrate that during the passage of the bus Bill . I also thank the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and my hon . friend the Member for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mr Sewards ) , who share many of the same transport challenge . I put on record my thank and admiration for the queen of bus , the West Yorkshire Mayor , for everything she be do to promote bus in West Yorkshire , include take they back into public control . finally , I thank the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) . I be sure the Rail Minister will have hear his comment on his station project . the Minister be try to comprehensively address all the comment in the debate . I realise he can not comment on individual project , but will he undertake to inform the Secretary of State of the need to release funding for the most important restore your railway project ? I be sure the Secretary of State will have hear that message , as will the Rail Minister regard the hon . Gentleman ' s individual project . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) and for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) . I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East will welcome the £ 485 million that be deliver to Transport for London in the last Budget ; as a northern MP , I can say that without any hesitation . I thank my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) for her passionate speech , which be deliver by a passionate advocate for public transport . turn to the comment make by the shadow Secretary of State , I will take no lecture from the Opposition on public transport . look at the Opposition Benches , all I will say be this : a picture paint a thousand word . I congratulate the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) on her maiden speech . I wish I could share her frustration about three bus turn up at once ; in Somerset , we would be delighted should one turn up at any time . I thank all the hon . member across the House — well , part of the House — for their attendance today . the wide interest share in their contribution highlight the importance of the debate . as I say in my opening remark , the poor quality of rural transport , particularly bus service , have be evidence by all the hon . member from rural area who have speak . the environmental and economic importance of public transport can not be overstate . it be crucial to help the Government hit two of their five mission , so they should grasp the opportunity to fix public transport in rural area . I welcome the Minister ' s comment , but resident who travel from the south - west must know that construction at Old Oak Common will impact they . we need to give they assurance that the impact of the work will be mitigate as far as possible . I would welcome a conversation with the Rail Minister on behalf of my constituent . we also desperately need more information about the renationalisation of South Western Railway . many of my constituent rely on that operator and they must have the confidence that the service will improve . my constituent in Somerton and Langport desperately want a train station to connect they to the railway , and they need information about that as soon as possible . the lack of correspondence across successive government be very disappointing . if a train station be still some time away , although I hope it be not , then the need to improve bus service and integrate they with the railway be vital . liberal Democrat and Labour Members recognise that point , and I hope we can make progress on it . I thank the Minister for recognise it as well . I look forward to see the model for franchising , as the Minister set out . we need funding to improve rural bus service and a real focus to provide rural resident with a work public transport system . I eagerly await find out how the Government will approach that over the come week and month . will the Minister set out guidance for social and economic outcome ? I believe the Government ' s well bus Bill will provide the perfect opportunity to do that . the hon . Lady be sum up the debate well and I know that time be tight . she will know that the Transport Committee have just launch an inquiry into rural bus service that will focus on the social and economic aspect of those service , among other thing . will she encourage people in her network to respond to the call for evidence ? absolutely I will , and I encourage all hon . member to do exactly that . to summarise , I thank the Minister for his assurance . he know that the liberal Democrats will hold he to account . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of improve public transport . detention of Alaa Abd el - Fattah Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) I assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the word " you " will not pass my lip during this debate . I have call this Adjournment debate to raise the urgent matter of the ongoing detention of Alaa Abd el - Fattah . that name be raise in the early debate and I be grateful for the number of member who highlight the case , but this debate give we the opportunity to go into his position in slightly more depth . Alaa be a celebrated british - egyptian writer and co - recipient of this year ' s PEN Pinter prize , but he have spend the past decade imprison in Egypt . Alaa have be imprison for his writing on human right and technology and in support of democracy . he be an Amnesty International prisoner of conscience , and over those 10 year , tragically , Alaa have be deny the right to be with his young son , who live and attend school in Brighton . I welcome member of his family who be in the Gallery today . Alaa ' s current detention should have end on 29 September , when his most recent five - year sentence end . his appalling imprisonment be for the crime of " spread false news " , because he share a Facebook post detail act of torture against another inmate . the date of his sentence end , but the egyptian Government refuse to release he , argue that his two year spend languish in pre - trial detention do not count towards his sentence . that be in complete violation of international legal norm , as well as Egypt ' s own domestic law . let I briefly offer a list of who have call for Alaa ' s release , because the scale of support for he internationally be extraordinary . our last four UK Prime Ministers have demand his release . also on the list be the President of France , the Chancellor of Germany , the White House , the editorial board of some of the most significant newspaper from across the globe , include the Guardian and the Washington Post , the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and 14 Nobel laureate for literature — and that be just a few . my right hon . friend rightly list figure of national and international significance who be back the campaign for Alaa ' s release . do my right hon . friend agree that in constituency across the country — include my constituency in Leeds — more and more people , when they hear this heartbreaking story , be feel that this be a huge injustice and that we want our Government to do everything they can and strain every sinew to get Alaa release and reunite with his family ? Alaa ' s case be become a cause c é l è bre , not just in this country but across the globe , as demonstrate by the number of significant figure and also by the number of constituent who be now contact we about the case . I commend the right hon . gentleman for bring this forward . I have speak to he . in today ' s debate , which I hope the right hon . member watch on tv , he would have see the Minister come forward with some idea on how to take this matter forward . it have be mention that Alaa Abd el - Fattah be a british citizen . carry a british passport have to mean more than just be a british citizen ; it give we right . where be those right ? do the right hon . Member agree that his continued detention should raise red flag with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ? far , do he not believe that this deserve a great push for Alaa Abd el - Fattah ' s release ? I hope that the Minister ' s reply will outline some of the thing that I believe the Government will do in a positive fashion . I will come on to some of those issue later in my speech , but this be a running theme in the debate that take place early as well . to follow on from what my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) say with regard to Alaa ' s case and the show of support , last year , more than 100 Parliaments echo the call for his release in a letter to the then Foreign Secretary . in this new Parliament , Alaa have find support across the Benches . today ' s debate on the protection of british national arbitrarily detain abroad have demonstrate the breadth of that support . we also have a new all - party parliamentary group take up the case . follow the decision by the egyptian authority to effectively ignore the end of Alaa ' s sentence , his mother , Laila Soueif , a professor of mathematic at Cairo university , whom a number of hon . member have meet , resort to the only method that she think she have leave — a hunger strike . today be the 67th day of that hunger strike . since 30 September , she have consume no calorie , survive solely on salt , black coffee and herbal tea . she have lose 22 % of her body weight , and , as anyone who have experience of hunger strike know — unfortunately , in this country , we have know they in the past — she be now enter an extremely urgent and dangerous phase . Laila , who be bear in London , feel compel to take this extreme action because she believe that she be not be listen to by either of her government — both in Egypt and , unfortunately , in the UK . Alaa have be repeatedly target by the egyptian Government . he be first arrest in 2006 for protest for the independence of the judiciary . in October 2011 , he be arrest after write a newspaper article detail the egyptian military ' s killing of mostly egyptian christian protester , know in Egypt as the Maspero massacre . the original demonstration be against the demolition of a church . in 2013 , Alaa be arrest again , falsely accuse of organise a protest in violation of Egypt ' s draconian protest law . he be release from prison in March 2019 after serve his five - year sentence . but the term of his release be draconian . he be require to sleep inside a police station every night , so from 6 pm until 6 am he be effectively imprison again . during this period , Alaa continue to document the way in which prisoner be treat in egyptian prison , publish article in the online newspaper , Mada Masr . while sleep in the police station , he be visit in the middle of the night by security agent who threaten he and tell he to stop write . he courageously refuse to do so . among the many thing that he write and share be a story on Facebook about a man who have die in prison , allegedly after be torture . after six month , Alaa be re - arrest . in September 2019 , he be arrest while inside the police station where he be require to sleep and take to an undisclosed state security facility . his lawyer , Mohamed el - Baqer , find he and be himself arrest while represent Alaa . the lawyer be now serve four year in prison . Alaa be hold in inhumane condition at Tora prison . in a cell with no sunlight , he be deny access to book , exercise , a radio , a mattress or bedding , or any time out of his cell . he be not even allow a clock to be aware of the time of the day , so day would pass without he realise . bad of all , he be place under the custody of the very same officer who be accuse of torture a man to death . Alaa be hold in this nightmare of a place for two year . at that time , he tell his family that he be have suicidal thought , which be understandable . then , in December 2021 , his application for his british passport — his right under the British Nationality Act 1981 — come through . a one - time use emergency passport be hand to his family who then go to the prison . they be not allow to take even letter to Alaa , and the family insist that a blank postcard of the Queen be deliver to he . the prison guard , perhaps confused , take the postcard and give it to Alaa . for month thereafter , that postcard of the Queen be the only thing in his cell . this be how his family finally let he know that he have become a british citizen . Alaa and his family think that thing would now change , but week pass and no consular official arrive . request by the british embassy for consular access to their citizen be deny . desperate , in April 2022 Alaa declare himself on hunger strike until the egyptian authority would allow the british consular service to access he . that fail . to this day , he have still never receive a consular visit . many of we will remember the scene in the run - up to and during COP27 , which be hold in Egypt . with still no movement after month on a Gandhi - style strike of 100 calorie a day , Alaa escalate to a full water strike . there be scene of global solidarity with Alaa from those in the climate movement , Nobel laureate and world leader , include Chancellor Olaf Scholz and President Emmanuel Macron . our former Prime Minister Rishi Sunak write to Alaa ' s family before travel to — order . the right hon . Gentleman just refer to the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton by name . he really should know well than to do that . you get I on that one , Madam Deputy Speaker . hand up . I will hand myself in later . our former Prime Minister the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) write to Alaa ' s family before travel to Egypt . he say that " the government be deeply committed to do everything we can to resolve Alaa ' s case as soon as possible " . despite that commitment , two year on from COP , Alaa ' s family have nothing to show for the UK Government ' s effort to secure his release . if this new arbitrary extension of Alaa ' s sentence be allow to pass without intervention from the british authority , his family fear , as many of we do , that he will never be release . they have cause to believe that as the egyptian Government have repeatedly engage in a practice they call " case recycling " , which be when new case be bring against prisoner approach the end of their sentence . accord to human right organisation such as the Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies , in 2023 at least 251 defendant be rotate to new case . in 2022 , another 620 defendant be treat in the same way . Alaa ' s family begin to lose faith in the previous Government , with Ministers seemingly unwilling to take any action on his case beyond simply raise it with their egyptian counterpart . while that be go on , we witness the Government seek ever - close economic tie with the egyptian Government . the election of a Labour Government give Alaa ' s family a renew sense of hope . the Foreign Secretary have be a supporter of the campaign . he be alongside Alaa ' s sister during their sit - in outside the Foreign Office and publicly describe Alaa as a " courageous voice for democracy in Egypt " . as shadow Foreign Secretary , he outline a series of practical suggestion for get Alaa back to the UK , which include leverage our substantive trade relation with Egypt , restrict the access of the egyptian ambassador and pause new strategic partnership with the egyptian Government until Alaa ' s case be resolve . the only relevant detail that have change since the Foreign Secretary make those remark as shadow Foreign Secretary be that Alaa ' s sentence have now end , but he remain in prison . like the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , I call upon the Foreign Secretary to stay true to his word and to see through some of the action that he outline in 2022 . he know then , as be evident , that a strategy base solely on raise the case in meeting will not secure Alaa ' s release . ahead of 29 September , when Alaa be suppose to be release , multiple member of this House write to the Foreign Secretary , alert he to the end of Alaa ' s sentence and ask he to ensure that appropriate action be take . just day before the 29th , the Foreign Secretary be picture smile with his egyptian counterpart . on 21 November , our Prime Minister be photograph shake hand with President Sisi . on 25 November , I table a question on whether the Prime Minister have raise Alaa ' s case with the President on that occasion . I have not yet receive a response . to be brutally frank , it be not clear that any serious step have be take to alert the egyptian Government to the fact that Britain be expect Alaa to be release on that date . it be still unclear whether the Government have change their approach to the case since the date pass — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) we expect a significant change of approach from the last government because the previous method fail , so I would welcome an update from the Minister to the House on whether their approach have change . there be a series of step the Government could take that would see Alaa reunite with his family , and especially with his son . the Minister should change the travel advice for Egypt on the Foreign Office ' s website to reflect the reality of the moment : that if a person be arrest in Egypt , the Government can not guarantee even consular access . the United States provide that advice to its citizen — why do we not ? last year see a record number of british holidaymaker go to Egypt , a country where tourism be a significant part of the economy . change the travel advice to reflect the reality of the situation would demonstrate to the Egyptians that our Government be take Alaa ' s detention seriously . we know the egyptian Government be seek an increase in british investment into Egypt . we should be clear and announce a moratorium on any new trade agreement with Egypt until Alaa be free . last month , 15 non - governmental organisation , include the Committee to protect Journalists , FairSquare and the Global Magnitsky Justice Campaign ask the British Government to put on hold any new government assistance or promotion of new foreign direct investment into Egypt until Alaa be free . in recent day , we have also see new research from the campaign against Arms Trade , expose the fact that Britain have sell more than £ 200 million of arm licence to Egypt while Alaa remain in prison . that include the large ever single arm licence on record from Britain to Egypt , worth nearly £ 80 million , for military radar in December 2023 . that be further evidence of the depth of the relationship between the UK and Egypt that can and should be leveraged . it go without say that no such deal of that kind must be pursue by the new Government while a british citizen be imprison . as the Foreign Secretary previously suggest , there should be diplomatic consequence for the egyptian ambassador . how be it right that he continue to be allow access to the high level of our government while refuse to allow british official in Cairo to do their job under the Vienna convention on consular relation ? I write to the egyptian ambassador — I hope he receive my email — in the hope that we would receive some positive message from he before the debate , and we could break the good news that the egyptian Government have decide to release Alaa . I have receive no response whatsoever . I have outline some of the measure that the Government could take to make it clear to Egypt that the refusal to recognise Alaa ' s british nationality and the failure to recognise and respect its own law on time serve will have serious consequence for the bilateral relationship . I hope the Government will grasp the urgency and seriousness of the situation , especially in the context of a 68 - year - old woman on hunger strike whose life be at risk , and take the action necessary to see Alaa release hopefully in time to spend Christmas with his son in Brighton . I would like to end by send a message from this House to Alaa , echo his own word back to he from the title of his book : " you have not yet be defeat " . I say to Alaa : you have not be , and we will not let you be , defeat . we will secure your release . I acknowledge Alaa ' s family , who be in the Public Gallery . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) for secure this debate , and I pay tribute to he for his tireless support for Mr el - Fattah and his family . I be also grateful to all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution in this and the early debate . I re - emphasise , both to Alaa ' s family and to the House , that his release remain a priority for the UK Government . I recognise the profound impact that his imprisonment have have on he and his family . the Government , and I as the Minister responsible , be do all we can to find a resolution . our priority remain to reunite he with his family , and until that happen , we be work to ensure that he be allow consular access and support . as I say early , support british national overseas be at the heart of our work at the Foreign Office . that include dual national and more recent british national such as Alaa . I have meet Mr el - Fattah ' s family on a number of occasion , include his incredibly impressive mother , Laila , who be in the Chamber last week and whom I also see in Cairo . I share my the concern of my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington about she wellbeing , as she be deep into a hunger strike . as he rightly say , the health implication of that be obviously serious . I be sure that the whole House share the Government ' s concern about her welfare . we will continue to be in regular contact with Mr el - Fattah ' s family to discuss his case . the Foreign Secretary recently meet the family , include Laila , last week . I meet she last month during my visit to Cairo and when she be in the House more recently . our consular official and our ambassador in Cairo work around the clock on this case . at the same time , we know from listen to the family that they feel that more support be require . that feeling be share in other case , and as I say to the House early , that be why we be look to strengthen our approach through the appointment of a special envoy to work with family on the most complex detention case , of which Mr el - Fattah ' s case be clearly one . let I turn to the question of Mr el - Fattah ' s nationality , which be contest . the UK have consistently and unambiguously maintain that he be a british national , and that remain the position of the new Labour Government . he become a british citizen in December 2021 , while he be in detention but shortly before be sentence . I stress that the timing of his citizenship , in the same month as his sentencing , be in no way connect to the UK Government ' s position on his case . as the Foreign Secretary say in the House last week , there be no conspiracy behind this . we have always be clear with Egypt that Mr el - Fattah be grant nationality in the normal way . he be a british national , and be therefore entitle to consular access under the Vienna convention . we disagree with the egyptian view that he be an egyptian mono - national and that the process for confer nationality be in any way irregular . we continue to urge the Egyptians to grant we consular access under the Vienna convention on consular relation , as they have do in other case of detain dual national . in response to my right hon . friend ' s comment , let I say a little about how we have be engage with Egypt . across all our engagement , we have be clear that this case will be resolve only by Mr el - Fattah ' s release . that be the message that I deliver when I see Foreign Minister Abdelatty and the egyptian ambassador on what be the first visit by a Minister of the new Government to Egypt . the Foreign Secretary have also raise this case directly with the Foreign Minister , as have the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , just this week . I can also confirm to my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington that the Prime Minister do discuss the case with President Sisi in August . I would like to reassure Alaa ' s family and this House that we will continue to press the Egyptians until Mr el - Fattah be free and reunite with his family . I be aware , of course , of the understandable frustration that member feel at Alaa ' s situation , and the desire that the UK Government roll back our relationship with Egypt or drop all economic support . however , our partnership with Egypt be crucial to alleviate suffering in the region and for our push for wide peace and security in the region . while I be in Egypt , I announce further assistance for the egyptian healthcare system in order to support Palestinians who have cross from Gaza and be in need of urgent medical care . I also sign a memorandum of understanding aim at boost the Egyptians ' effort on food security . I know that my right hon . friend and many other member of the House be aware of the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza , the humanitarian crisis in Sudan and the many pressure on Egypt , where poverty be also very high . as such , while Mr el - Fattah remain at the forefront of my mind , the Foreign Secretary ' s mind and the mind of the whole government , we will continue to try to ensure that our relationship with Egypt be positive and productive where those effort be necessary to protect other british national and try to deal with question of international peace and security . I want to make it explicit that nobody who have raise this case want to prevent the UK Government from provide aid and assistance , particularly give the issue that be happen to the Palestinians in Gaza — we be certainly not ask for that . what we be ask for relate to the relationship on trade and on arm sale . I believe there be potential leverage in those area to enable we to secure Alaa ' s release . in addition , the relationship with the egyptian ambassador also give we the opportunity to exercise some leverage . those be the activity that we would like the Government to pursue . I will come back to those point in a little while , if I may . at the heart of our general approach be the firm belief that through continue engagement , we can encourage the Egyptians to improve their human right record , and that a strong relationship than the one we inherit would allow we to have frank and open discussion with key decision maker — as my colleague and I have recently do — so that we can see improvement , both in Alaa ' s case and in relation to the wide human right and social situation in Egypt . I reassure my right hon . friend that in my engagement with both the egyptian ambassador and Egyptian Ministers , we be clear at all time about the importance of this case , include its importance to the very many international observer whom my right hon . friend run through so articulately . this case be important to Egypt ' s international reputation , and it will of course shape the view of investor and other when they think about their engagement . in conclusion , the UK remain firmly committed to secure Mr el - Fattah ' s release and reunite he with his family . we will continue to push Egypt towards a resolution , make clear that the only way to resolve this case be by release he . the Minister be come to a conclusion . can we have an assurance that we will receive a report to the House in the come month about the effectiveness of the action the Government have take in secure Alaa ' s release ? have be press on this case twice in a day , I be more than happy to commit to return to the House within a month to give a further update . we will continue to push Egypt for a resolution and I thank my right hon . friend for his interest in the case , and many other in this House for their interest . I have no doubt that I will be regularly come to the House to update member on our effort in relation to Mr el - Fattah , and I know that the whole House be think of his mother and the rest of his family during this incredibly difficult time . question put and agree to . House adjourn .