much of the content of Lord Darzi ' s report have be know for some year . none the less , today ' s report be a scathing summary of the complete devastation that the Conservatives have work on our health service and on the health of our community . we Liberal Democrats have long argue that we need to shift healthcare from hospital to high street , and from treatment to prevention , because do so improve health outcome and save taxpayer ' money . it be a win - win . but the report be long on diagnosis and short on prescription , so may I invite Ministers to read our fully cost manifesto to fix public health and primary care by recruit 8 , 000 GPs , end dental desert , boost public health grant by £ 1 million , implement our five - year plan to boost cancer survival rate , and put a mental health expert in every school ? do the Secretary of State accept that there be an elephant in the room : social care ? will he meet I to discuss the liberal Democrat plan for social care , start with free personal care ? this bold idea would prevent many people from go into hospital in the first place , as well as enable they to be discharge from hospital fast . do he accept that it be a truth universally acknowledge that we can not fix the nhs if we do not fix social care too ? as for the dire state of our hospital and primary care estate , well , the Conservatives have leave it to fester like a wound . will the Secretary of State give the green light to hospital that be ready to rebuild , such as mine in west Hertfordshire ? will Ministers look to reform outdated Treasury rule that be prevent our integrate care board and hospital trust from spend and invest their fund in the GP practice and hospital that we need ? this Government say that they want growth . well , health and wealth be two side of the same coin , which be something the Conservatives do not understand . if Labour want economic growth , fix our health and social care must be its top priority . and it must be a priority without delay . on Tuesday , I be at the Birmingham child ' s hospital . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the excellent staff on their work and their commitment to each individual patient who go through the door ? that evening , I be also with a local gp at Sparkbrook health centre whose frustration be with the outdated computer system . if he could get one message across to the Secretary of State , it would be that he have to reboot his computer numerous time a day . will the Secretary of State put resource in to ensure that the it be up to date ?