prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . pet be a part of our family . they provide support and companionship when we need it most . in time - honour Friday tradition , I would like to name my own pet , from my childhood cat Perdita through to Phoebe , who I adopt while I live in the States , my yellow Labradors Harry and George , and my current much - adore fox red Labrador , Henry . have the hon . Lady ever own a ferret ? if so , what be that ferret ' s name ? that be an excellent intervention . I will come to ferret , but unfortunately I have not have the pleasure of one at home myself . the companionship of pet be highly value during the covid pandemic , when there be a surge in demand for puppy and kitten , which unfortunately lead to even more upsetting case of pet smuggling in the UK . during covid , legal commercial import of dog rise by nearly 60 % to more than 70 , 000 dog in 2021 , and trend in illegal import could be expect to be similar . Puppy and kitten smuggling come on my radar as an mp shortly after the first lockdown begin in March 2020 , when I be one of those people try to find a new pup , which be hard to find . I be grateful to my great dog - love friend Bethany Sawyer for her advice not to see the cute puppy that be the wrong age without both parent available in the advert . while Henry , my fox red Labrador be not smuggle into the country — I meet his mum and dad at their farm just above my North Devon home — I understand how the emotion in adopt a new pet and companion often leave some of the rationality and questioning behind . price for specific dog breed double , and the UK market struggle to keep up . with huge profit to be make , that imbalance provide ample opportunity for people act illegally and irresponsibly to import puppy and take advantage of innocent pet buyer , who may not have know that their furry friend be suffer . YouGov polling show that 83 % of the public want the Government to crack down on puppy smuggling . I be the parliamentary private Secretary on the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill Committee , and I be delighted to be flank by my Whip from that Committee , my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Mrs Wheeler ) and other member of that Committee who be support this Bill . just this week alone , more than 100 colleague have drop in to see the Dogs Trust and support the Bill . when the keep animal Bill be withdraw and divide up , I make a commitment to the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Dogs Trust that if I come high up in the private Member ' s Bill ballot , I would take part of that Bill through . as I be not a regular raffle prize winner , I be more than a bit perplexed to find myself come sixth . I look at Henry — I be still not sure whether he fully understand all the medium attention — and explain that we be go to be help puppy for many month to come . I be delighted that I have be able to keep that commitment here today . as a dog owner myself , I find it horrific to hear story of puppy and kitten be smuggle across the border and the poor condition they have to endure . pet be more than just property ; they be family . the Bill will ensure that pet be not sell or trade as object . this be such an important Bill , which my hon . friend be bring forward with passion and eloquence . do she agree that the Government must put in funding at the border to deal with the problem and stop the smuggling of puppy , kitten and , indeed , ferret ? it be a worry that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have reduce , or propose to reduce , biosecurity funding at the port of Dover and in the Dover area . money must be put behind this important initiative . my hon . friend be a huge advocate for her constituency and the port of Dover . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , of which I be a member , be indeed look at some of those matter . the Bill will deliver a manifesto commitment to crack down on puppy , kitten and ferret smuggling by closing loophole exploit by unscrupulous commercial trader . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the passionate case she be make for her Bill , which I think we all support . her legislation rely quite extensively on regulation . do she have a sense of how quickly those regulation will come forward once the Bill hopefully pass ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , and I hope that the Minister can provide guidance on that at the end of the debate . the Bill will ban the import of puppy and kitten under six month and dog and cat that be mutilate or heavily pregnant . it will also address the abuse of non - commercial rule that compromise animal welfare and biosecurity by make it more difficult and less profitable for trader to fraudulently import animal for sale under the disguise of owner travel with their pet . the Bill also address the issue of commercial import be disguise as non - commercial movement by amend the rule that govern the non - commercial movement of dog , cat and ferret into Great Britain from third country . the puppy trade have become a multimillion - pound , transnational industry , with UK sale of up to 2 million puppy annually and a value of £ 3 billion . however , 50 % of the industry be either illegal or unlicensed and off the enforcement radar . of that , half originate from animal come from outside the UK . accord to the Animal and Plant Health Agency , in 2023 , more than 500 landing of dog and cat be intercept at the port of Dover and find to be non - compliant with import requirement . of those , 116 puppy and kitten be quarantine for be below the legally require minimum age for import . that datum do not include animal detain at airport or find inland . we can not know the true extent of puppy smuggling operation , so those figure likely capture only a small proportion of the animal smuggle into the country . ferret be include in the Bill , because dog , cat and ferret be in the same category for rabie risk . I have not have strong representation from the ferret community , but I would like to mention on the record the ferret of the right hon . and learn Member for Banbury ( Victoria Prentis ) , who be the Minister for the original Bill . her gorgeous ferret , Roulette , be no long with we , but I know that the now Attorney General have previously ensure that reference to many of her much - love pet be record in this place , and I be delighted to remember Roulette today . while not many ferret have make my inbox , I have do much to support the work of our fantastic animal welfare charity on puppy and kitten smuggling , so I will focus on their travel arrangement . pet animal can be bring into the UK from EU member state through two different scheme . one be for the travel of owner with pet and the other be for the commercial import of pet animal . under the EU pet travel scheme , or PETS , vaccinate and microchippe dog , cat and ferret be allow to travel between EU country for non - commercial reason , as long as they have a pet passport and have comply with all the requirement of the scheme , which include a rabie vaccination . the current pet travel scheme be design to allow a maximum of five pet to travel with their owner rather than for the commercial movement of animal intend for sale as pet . under the scheme , pet owner must fill in a declaration confirm that they will not sell or transfer the ownership of the pet . an approved transport company must be use for the travel of the pet , unless travel between the UK and Ireland , where a private boat or plane can be use . although I understand that the pet travel scheme be create to make it easy for owner to take their family pet on holiday with they , the system have be abuse by unscrupulous trader . trader have take advantage of the scheme ' s simple set - up to illegally import thousand of puppy for sale , make a huge profit at the cost of welfare . the most common method of attempt to smuggle puppy into Great Britain be by bring they in under the pet travel scheme when they be , in fact , be import for commercial sale and should instead be subject to the requirement of the Balai directive and the Trade in Animals and Related Products Regulations 2011 . Most of all , I highlight the great work that the pet charity have do to raise this issue . Dogs Trust expose the cruel puppy smuggling trade in 2014 and have be push for change to the law to help stop it ever since . the Dogs Trust puppy pilot scheme be set up in 2015 to aid the interception of illegally import puppy by APHA at the port and to provide care and rehabilitation for they until they find love new home . since then , it have care for more than 2 , 000 puppy . as part of the Dogs Trust puppy smuggling taskforce , I first experience the documentary and identity check that currently operate at the border . I see for myself the tactic that smuggler employ to avoid detection . I thank Dogs Trust for all its hard work in campaign on this issue and for work with I on the Bill ' s progress , through the roundtable and the event this Wednesday to discuss their recent " Tragic Tales and the decade of Delay " campaign , which feature four real - life case study of dog who have be help by the puppy pilot . special thank go to my local Dogs Trust site in North Devon between Ilfracombe and Braunton , which do exceptional work to rehome dog locally . I also thank the RSPCA for its work on this issue and for its # forpupssake campaign , especially during the pandemic when interest in get a puppy sky - rocket . the campaign call for a stop to illegal puppy import and highlight how smuggled puppy can cost the owner more than they think . on behalf of the fluffy , furry kitten , I would like to thank Cats Protection , which publish its 2023 " cat and their Stats " survey . it find that 3 % of the cat obtain in the 12 month precede the survey be from abroad , equate to 50 , 000 cat . it be unclear what condition those cat be subject to during travel . there have be significant change in the cat market in the past five year , with a big rise in pure bred and pedigree cat . of the cat obtain in the past 12 month , 42 % be pedigree and pure bred cat , compare with 17 % five year ago . it be likely that many of the import cat be pedigree . have have a cat while I be live overseas , I know that cat be extremely stress by transportation over long distance , which in turn can supress their immune system so that their risk of infectious disease and other stress - relate illness be markedly increase by importation . vet charity , such as the British Veterinary Association , have also raise directly with I the significant threat pose to biosecurity by the large number of smuggle puppy enter the UK . although it be not in scope of the Bill , I hope that raise the issue be a first step and that the Department will take forward those concern . other charity , such as Battersea Dogs and Cats Home , four paw and the Kennel Club , have all do invaluable work to campaign on the issue . I thank they all today . move on to the Bill and the measure that will be enact through primary legislation , clause 4 will reduce the number of animal that can travel under non - commercial rule from five per person to five per vehicle , or three per foot or air passenger . the charity would have prefer three animal per vehicle , as their research show that over 97 % of pet owner have three or few dog . however , the reduction be a significant and welcome step to tackle the illegal smuggling of pet . the non - commercial rule be intend to make it easy for genuine pet owner to travel . unscrupulous trader fraudulently claim ownership of several pet that they be actually import for sale . they do that because the requirement for owner travel with pet be less stringent . the Bill reduce the number of dog , cat and ferret that can be bring into Great Britain non - commercially . reduce that number be proportionate and take into consideration other pet own by the household that may also travel . article 5a in clause 4 ( 5 ) ensure that when a non - commercial movement of a dog , cat or ferret be carry out by an authorised person , it may only take place within five day of the movement of the owner . there be evidence that the ability for a pet to travel with an authorised person under the non - commercial rule be be use as a loophole to bring in animal that should be move under the commercial import regime , and therefore subject to more stringent requirement for sale or transfer of ownership . the new measure will ensure that pet be move under the owner ' s direct responsibility or , where the pet animal can not be move at the same time as the owner , under the responsibility of a person authorise by the owner and within five day of the movement of the owner . an authorised person be one who have authorisation in write from the owner to carry out the non - commercial movement of the pet animal on their behalf . this will also ensure that only an owner of a pet can sign a declaration that a movement be non - commercial . this will stop non - commercial route be use as a loophole by trader . movement that be not within five day will require the dog , cat or ferret to be bring in as a commercial import , rather than a non - commercial movement . on the measure to be enact through secondary legislation , the Bill contain an enable power to make regulation on the bringing of dog , cat or ferret into the United Kingdom for the purpose of promote their welfare . the first regulation that can be make in relation to dog and cat in Great Britain under that enable power have be outline on the face of the Bill to provide reassurance of the Government ' s intention to lay the measure through secondary legislation . the enable power provide the opportunity for the Government to gather further evidence and discuss the proposal with stakeholder and the public in order to develop the new restriction effectively . the power will enable the Government to tackle low welfare import dynamically . they will allow we the flexibility to address know issue quickly , but also act to close down emerge practice , include those attempt to circumvent previous restriction . the Government will use that power alongside the other power in the Bill . subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) to clause 1 introduce prohibition that restrict the commercial import and non - commercial movement into Great Britain of puppy and kitten under six month . we be still see high volume of smuggle puppy — dog under six month which do not comply with current animal health rule and be land in Great Britain for the purpose of commercial sale — as well as other low - welfare movement and import of pet animal . I understand the Kennel Club ' s concern about genetic diversity and rescue dog that be bring into the country at the age of four month . however , the need for a six - month minimum age be due to the practicality of identify the age of a dog or a cat that can come into the UK : at six month old , the majority of puppy and kitten will have a full set of permanent incisor , canine and premolar , and can therefore be age more accurately . the measure will enable the identification of puppy and kitten that be be move at young age and be thus at risk of low welfare . the prohibition be intend to prevent the import of under - age puppy and kitten by increase the minimum age from 15 week to six month . to illustrate the importance of that , I want to talk about Bruce , who be available after today ' s sit for photo in room W3 , if you would like to meet he , Mr Speaker . Bruce highlight the need for a change to the minimum age . he be a french bulldog who be seize at the border at just 10 week old alongside three of his sibling , who have all endure a journey in cramp and squalid condition over thousand of mile from Bulgaria in 2018 . ten week be well under the 15 week that puppy must have reach to legally enter the UK . Bruce and his sibling be find in a poor condition , infest with worm and severely underweight . all four of the dog weigh roughly 2 . 8 kg , which be half the expect weight of french bulldog of their age . their passport be fake , with at least three claim that the dog have be worm before they be even bear . the dishonest trader claim that Bruce and his sibling be all their own pet . upon seizure , however , Dogs Trust staff be able to find evidence of all four dog be advertise for sale online . fortunately for Bruce , the Dogs Trust be able to take he in and care for he until he could find his forever home . Bruce have now be rehome responsibly through the Dogs Trust . he be a very cute french bulldog . some of these dog be breed for fashion , and the Kennel Club , along with other animal charity and vet , have highlight the health and welfare issue that can be associate with such breed . although the issue of breathing and flat - face dog be about genetic mutilation and be therefore not in scope of the Bill , I would like to highlight the need still to safeguard dog of this type that be already in the country . we must look at what else we can do to help with genetic mutilation , which cause our pet to suffer . last week , it be reassuring to hear about Crufts ' s respiratory function grade — rfg — scheme for brachycephalic dog , such as french bulldog , pug and bulldog . it be great to meet Dr Jane Ludlow , the vet who have devise the scheme , which assess dog with a stethoscope . the dog exercise for three minute , and the process be then repeat . we see at first hand that the test be quick and straightforward , and it assign an rfg rating to each dog . those with the low grade should not breed . far too many flat - face dog have brachycephalic obstructive airway syndrome , know as BOAS , which can chronically impair the ability of the dog to breathe normally and carry out everyday task . all the dog at Crufts have the option of be test , which become compulsory next year , and all those that win be test to ensure that the breed retain high health standard . I hope that my highlight this issue today will ensure that more potential pet owner ask question about the health of the parent of their future pet . I be really glad that the hon . Lady have bring up this issue . I do not know whether she have see the number of brachycephalic dog that be go to Battersea because pet owner can not afford to have the operation . the charity have see an exponential rise in these dog be dump . do she agree that much more need to be do ? I have indeed be to Battersea , which be what really trigger much of my interest in this particular area . like the hon . Lady , I be deeply shock by what I see , which be why it be such a relief to see the new system come into effect at Crufts . it give people the opportunity to find out whether their dog be unwell — ideally , before they have be adopt as puppy . Cats Protection have highlight the issue of under - age kitten smuggling . Nala be smuggle illegally into the country when she be around eight week old . she have be with her owner for eight day when they bring she into the UK from Germany without a pet passport and appropriate vaccination . they become concerned for her health and take she to a vet , who realise that she have arrive without meet the requirement of the pet travel scheme and report the matter to trading standard . the pet travel scheme — pets — allow pet cat , dog and ferret to enter the UK without quarantine as long as they be microchippe , have a pet passport and a rabies vaccination , and have wait 21 day after the vaccination before travel . in addition to break the term of pet and be face prosecution , Nala ' s owner be also unable to pay for the cost of seven week of quarantine , which come to £ 1 , 500 , so they sign she over to feline welfare charity Cats Protection . it ensure that the tiny cat be appropriately quarantine and receive vet care before be take into its Ferndown adoption centre . despite be remove from her mother at about seven week old , a week early than be advise , Nala be a lively , energetic kitten , and a suitable home be find for she . clause 1 ( 3 ) ( b ) and 1 ( 4 ) ( b ) introduce prohibition that restrict the commercial import and non - commercial movement into Great Britain of heavily pregnant dog and cat — those that be more than 42 day pregnant . there be an emerge trend in the import of pregnant dog , but there be a strong consensus to tackle that , with Dogs Trust polling show 79 % support for a ban on the import of heavily pregnant dog . the prohibition in the Bill be intend to ensure the welfare of pregnant dog and cat by lower the gestation limit to prohibit the movement into Great Britain from a third country of dog and cat that be more than 42 day pregnant — and so within the final third of the gestation . that align with clear marker in pregnancy , and therefore pregnant dog and cat under that limit can be more easily identify . in addition , we expect that trader will respond to an increase in the minimum age for import puppy and kitten by increase the number of pregnant dog and cat that they import . this measure be need to prevent that anticipate increase in import of low - welfare dog and cat from producer with unacceptable welfare standard . the tragic case of Snowy , the heavily pregnant bichon Maltese , show how important this measure be in this Bill . Snowy be seize at the port of Dover in May 2023 , after be illegally transport into the UK . before she be intercept , Snowy have travel to the UK from an EU country . Snowy be 56 day pregnant when she be seize — in the final 10 % of her pregnancy , when it be illegal to transport dog . just day after she be seize , and despite her ordeal , Snowy give birth to four healthy puppy . Snowy and her puppy have all now be responsibly rehome through the Dogs Trust . the disturbing trend of transport heavily pregnant dog into the country in the later stage of pregnancy cause significant suffering and health implication to both mum and puppy . not only will import one dog attract less suspicion at the border , but as responsible buyer will ask to see the puppy with their mother , this tactic allow criminal to give the impression of be legitimate breeder , and thus avoid be report to trading standard . clause 1 ( 3 ) ( c ) and 1 ( 4 ) ( c ) introduce prohibition that restrict the commercial import and non - commercial movement into Great Britain of dog and cat with non - exempt mutilation , for example , dog with cropped ear or dock tail , and declawed cat . from my previous meeting with pet charity , I know there be a clear consensus among the charity about a ban on dog and cat with cropped ear and declawed cat , and I be delighted that it have be take forward . the intended approach to the prohibition of mutilate animal be set out in further detail in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs consultation " commercial and Non - Commercial Movements of Pets into Great Britain " . the summary of response and the Government response to that consultation be due to be publish in due course , and I be very much look forward to see the consultation response . the ban on crop ear mutilation would have help six - year - old Maisie , who come into RSPCA care in October 2023 due to welfare concern . she be incredibly malnourished and underweight . she be a sweet and gentle girl who absolutely love play with a football , chase tennis ball and eat sausage . she arrive in RSPCA care with a dock tail and cropped ear . she have a passport from overseas , so the RSPCA believe she be import have already be crop and dock . unfortunately , it be not just dog that be mutilate . many kitten be subject to declaw , an extremely painful and distressing procedure that prevent cat from exhibit normal scratch behaviour , and be the equivalent of amputate a human fingertip at the first knuckle . although it be already illegal for cat to be declaw in the UK . Cats Protection , the RSPCA and Battersea have be campaign hard to ensure that cat with this mutilation be include in the Bill and ban from importation . that be both to deter any market or interest in declawed cat , and to keep in line with ensure that the high standard of cat welfare be consistently maintain in the UK . the PDSA " Animal Wellbeing Report 2022 " state that " alarmingly , 5 % of cat owner who get their cat from abroad , equate to 31 , 000 cat , tell we that they choose to get their pet from abroad because they want they to be declaw . " clause 1 ( 2 ) ( b ) deliver relevant exemption to the prohibition , for example , for recognise assistance dog or military or service work animal . the enforcement measure and exemption for the Bill will be deliver through secondary legislation . as with the exemption , deliver the enforcement measure through secondary legislation will enable we to work closely with enforcement body to develop guidance and ensure they have the correct tool to deliver these measure effectively . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward this Bill . the legislation we pass in this place be only as effective as the enforcement that follow from it . a 2014 Dogs Trust investigation find that two of the authority involve in enforce breach of exist regulation in this area — the Animal and Plant Health Agency and trading standard — have no officer on active duty at port of entry over weekend . do she agree that , as well as pass this welcome piece of legislation , we need assurance from the Minister about the resourcing and capacity of those agency to ensure the Bill be properly enforce ? although I agree that we need to ensure enforcement , as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , I believe we have an opportunity today to highlight the need to educate people who be about to adopt a puppy or kitten . they need to ask those question . if illegally import animal be not adopt , the trade will dry up . I agree with the hon . Gentleman , but I also think we have an opportunity today to extend knowledge about the process of adopt — I have learn so much in develop this Bill . the measure will be enact through secondary legislation in order to refine the scope and detail of the policy and take on the view of the public and key stakeholder . the Bill provide that the prohibition must be enact the first time the enable power be use in relation to dog and cat in Great Britain to show commitment to deliver these measure . I have be assure by the Department , which I thank for its help in get the Bill to this point , that it will lay secondary legislation as soon as possible follow Royal Assent , and DEFRA official be already work on develop it . that will ensure that the Bill be future - proof and that it respond dynamically to smuggling practice . as be the nature of organised crime , the illegal pet trade be unpredictable and ever - change . these enable power will ensure the Government can tackle low - welfare import dynamically . they provide the flexibility to address know issue quickly , and ensure that we can act in the future to close down emerge practice whereby people try to circumvent previous restriction . finally , let I set out how this will be apply as a GB - wide Bill , and the extent and application involve the devolved administration . clause 3 set out the meaning of " appropriate national authority " regard the devolved administration . clause 8 set out the territorial extent of the Bill and describe the jurisdiction in which the Bill will form part of the law . the territorial extent and application of the Bill be England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , except clause 4 , 5 and 6 , which extend and apply only to England , Wales and Scotland . the Bill relate to animal welfare , which be a devolved matter in Scotland and Wales , include in relation to the regulation of movement of animal for the purpose of protect animal welfare . in Northern Ireland , animal welfare be generally a transfer matter , but the subject matter of this Bill mean that the reserved matter in schedule 3 ( 20 ) to the Northern Ireland Act 1998 be engage . I thank my DUP colleague , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , who be unable to join we today but have write to support the Bill . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech about this really important Bill , which I fully support . it be good to see it come forward . as she outline , we be still wait for a consultation response from the Government , but do she agree that it be deeply disappointing that the Government drop their Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , which would have look at these issue more carefully ? we need great action from the Government on animal welfare . even though this Bill will help , we need more . this government have do more on animal welfare than any previous Government , and we will continue to do so . like everyone else , I be disappoint that that Bill collapse , but that be due to amendment that change the nature of the original Bill . I very much welcome the cross - party support for this Bill . the amendment to the non - commercial pet travel scheme rule and related measure , which include the maximum number of dog , cat and ferret that can be move into Great Britain within five day of the owner ' s movement will extend to England , Wales and Scotland . the Bill do not apply to the domestic movement of dog , cat and ferret within our United Kingdom , so travel between Northern Ireland and Great Britian will not be affect . many colleague and hon . friend be in the Chamber to support this Bill , and I know that some may think that we have not go far enough , but we need to be pragmatic with this Bill and do not want perfection to be the enemy of the good . I believe that , as it stand , it will do a lot to safeguard the welfare of the thousand of puppy , cat and ferret that come into Great Britain from overseas each year . it will also prevent the heartache and unexpected cost to family who unknowingly buy young and ill pet that often come with hidden health condition . the measure I have outline aim to make vast animal welfare improvement to the current pet import rule . with secondary legislation , the measure will go far than the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill to ensure that loophole be tighten . I again thank all the charity and interested group that have share their view about the Bill . I hope that the Bill have meet some of the expectation and illustrate the positive step that we be take to stop this cruel trade . we be a nation of animal lover — a Parliament of pet lover — and this legislation will ensure that the UK be lead the world when it come to animal welfare . it be a pleasure to speak in today ' s debate on the Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill . cestrian be certainly fond of animal and animal right , and I have receive hundred of item of correspondence from constituent regard the Bill and ask I to contribute to the debate . I congratulate the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on bring forward the Bill . like my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) and many of my constituent , I be disappoint by the scrapping of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill last year — a manifesto pledge on which the Government stand — so I be pleased that some of the key issue from that Bill be address in this Bill . again , I congratulate the hon . member for North Devon . as important as this Bill be , do my hon . friend agree that its provision could have be on the statute book by now if the Government have not block labour ' s effort to revive the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill last year ? yes , indeed . I agree with my hon . friend . the Bill be a declaration of our commitment to compassion and responsibility towards our furry companion . it seek to address several press issue concern the importation of these animal , ensure their safety , health and wellbeing . my constituency have always care for animal and lead the way on animal right . Chester West and Chester Council be one of the first authority to permanently ban the practice of trail hunting on council - own land . the National Trust soon follow suit . the change introduce by the last Labour Government have leave an indelible mark on british history and have stand the test of time , from the ban on fox hunting and fur farming , to the action to stop experimentation on great ape and the testing of cosmetic on animal . we must ensure that we do not stop there . we should lead the way on animal welfare , and this Bill be another step forward and be long overdue . puppy , kitten and other animal continue to be illegally import into the UK on an industrial scale , alongside increase number of heavily pregnant dog and cat , and animal with mutilation , such as cropped ear . every year , thousand of puppy be illegally import into the UK to be sell to unsuspecting dog lover , have be transport thousand of mile with little or no food , water or exercise . I be concerned that there be widespread abuse of the pet travel scheme to smuggle animal illegally , often under age , unvaccinate and in poor welfare condition . dog , cat and ferret can enter the United Kingdom in one of two way : as non - commercial pet travel movement or as commercial import . more stringent requirement apply to commercial import than to non - commercial movement . evidence have show that commercial movement be frequently be describe as non - commercial movement to avoid the more stringent requirement . in 2023 , more than 500 landing of dog and cat be intercept at the port of Dover and find to be non - compliant with import requirement . of these , 116 puppy and kitten be quarantine for be below the legally require minimum age for import . that datum do not include animal detain at airport or find inland . we can not know the true extent of puppy smuggling operation , so these figure likely capture only a small portion of the animal smuggle into the country . accord to Dogs Trust , since the relaxation of the pet travel scheme — pets — in 2012 , the number of dog enter the country via pet have increase exponentially . Dogs Trust have conduct five investigation , which have expose smuggler use PETS as a cover to illegally import dog into Great Britain for sale . in 2015 , Dogs Trust set up the puppy pilot through which it fund the quarantine cost of illegally import puppy seize at the border and then rehome they responsibly through its network of rehome centre . since 2015 , more than 2 , 256 illegally import puppy have be care for by Dogs Trust through the puppy pilot , which , if sell to unsuspecting member of the public , would have make more than £ 3 million for the illegal importer . as many as 75 dog come in through the Dogs Trust puppy pilot have have their ear crop , despite this cruel mutilation be illegal in the UK and the EU . my hon . friend be make an interesting contribution . from her research , have she any idea to what extent the regulation be enforce to crack down on ear cropping , which be already illegal in Britain , but which we know still go on ? it be all very well not bring in dog that have have their ear crop , but what do she think be happen to enforce the current law ? my right hon . friend make an important point . as my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) say in his intervention , the Government need to commit to enforcement if they accept this important piece of legislation in order to tackle serious issue like ear cropping . I thank Dogs Trust and other animal welfare charity , such as Cats Protection and the RSPCA , for the important work they do to support the wellbeing of our beloved animal . talk of the RSPCA , I think that I would take the opportunity to talk a little more about ferret , which do not seem to have be mention much during this Session of Parliament . with the obvious exception of the right hon . and learn Member for Banbury ( Victoria Prentis ) , I do not think we have talk about ferret in this place at all — we have be more likely to talk about reverse ferret than actual ferret . I be grateful to the RSPCA for its fun factsheet on ferret , to which I shall refer . I have learn a great deal about ferret in do research for this debate . apparently , ferret — or Mustela putorius furo , which translate as stinky , rage thief — be a close ancestor to the european polecat and , because of their charming and cheeky character , have become popular pet . ferret have a number of characteristic , which the RSPCA draw out . ferret enjoy explore and be very curious . they be obviously predator , which be a characteristic for which they be more widely know , but they be also very sociable , which be probably why they have rise in popularity as a pet . they be playful and they also like sleep . apparently , they can sleep for between 18 and 20 hour a day , which be quite a feat . ferret use a range of method to communicate . they use a smell to hunt and they be also very vocal , which make I think — in a particularly vocal debate — about how they communicate . an excited ferret will make a " dooke " noise , which be also call chuckle . they can also produce a bark - like sound , and sometimes do that if they be afraid . continuous screaming be an indication that they be highly alert in the presence of danger . ferret be flexible , colourful and can catch cold . they sound like a fascinating animal and I be so pleased that the debate of the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) cover ferret as well . let I return to the Bill and welcome some aspect of it . I welcome the fact that it will ban the import of puppy and kitten under six month old , and dog and cat that be heavily mutilate or heavily pregnant . it will also address the current abuse of non - commercial rule that compromise animal welfare and buyer security , by make it more difficult and less profitable for trader to import animal for sale fraudulently in the guise of owner travel with their own pet . at its core , the Bill seek to establish comprehensive regulation and standard for the importation process for dog , cat and ferret . by implement stringent health check , vaccination requirement and documentation procedure , we can effectively safeguard against the spread of disease and prevent the introduction of infectious agent into our community . these measure be essential not only for the protection of the import animal , but for the welfare of domestic animal and the public at large . furthermore , the Bill advocate the humane treatment of animal throughout their journey . from the moment they leave their country of origin to their arrival at their destination , animal deserve to be treat with dignity and respect . we must ensure that they be transport in safe and comfortable condition , free from stress , fear and unnecessary suffering . additionally , the Bill seek to combat the cruel practice associate with the illegal trade of dog , cat and ferret by crack down on unscrupulous breeder and trader who exploit these animal for profit . in that way , we can protect vulnerable specie from exploitation and abuse . the Bill go far on the importance of responsible pet ownership . own a dog , cat or ferret be not merely a privilege ; it be a responsibility that require commitment , care and compassion . on behalf of my constituent in Chester and the many animal lover across the country , I once again congratulate the hon . member for North Devon on this important and long - overdue Bill . it be a huge pleasure to speak in the debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on promote this legislation . just from look at the text of the legislation , hon . member can see quite how complicated it be to amend a variety of bit of law on something we would have hope would be straightforward . the reason we have get to this place be , frankly , that criminal be abuse the rule we have in place . they have be smuggle dog , cat and ferret to such an extent that more than 500 instance of non - compliance be find in Dover alone just in 2023 . give people ' s concern , it be right that we update the law . this single - issue Bill be the right way to make that happen . during the debate on the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , there be understandably considerable concern about mutilation . I be pleased that the Bill address that . as be say by the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) — I use to live in Garston at one point — mutilation be already against the law in this country , but too often people say , " oh well , the dog come from abroad , " to try to get around the law . it be important that we address those specific issue . concern have be express about the number of pet that can be bring over and what will be consider a non - commercial arrangement . for what it be worth , I think that a sensible compromise have be reach , but will the Minister answer a question about propose new paragraph 1a in clause 4 ( 4 ) ( a ) ? someone can bring in five animal if they be in a car , but only three in any other form of transport . I wonder what the situation be for someone on the train — on Eurostar — but not in a car . I think go through Eurotunnel be cover . if the Minister want to think about that , I do not need an answer today , but I think it be worthy of consideration . we must ensure that the Bill work across the United Kingdom , so it be important that there be the ability to give power to Ministers in the devolved administration . during the Bill ' s progress — which I hope be rapid — I would like to probe far the different time at which different clause will come into effect . it be good to see that clause 1 , 2 , 3 and 7 will come into effect straightaway on Royal Assent . it would be useful to understand a little more why clause 4 , 5 and 6 will take long . I appreciate that there might be a transition , but at the moment the Bill say six month . I guess that the most important thing of all be that we go far in Committee and on Report so that a deadline be put on the introduction of the regulation — certainly as far as the power of UK Ministers allow . at the moment , the Bill provide the power to make regulation , but I think it be well , especially as we be try to take this legislation through the private Members ' Bill route , to give ourselves a fix deadline for get the regulation do . to that end , I be very conscious of other primary legislation . consultation must often happen for regulation , and we know that that can take some time , so I would be grateful to hear whether the Minister have already start prepare regulation to bring clause 1 into effect . that be a very good point in the Bill to ensure that the first regulation must be about the specific issue of smuggling . I welcome that . I be conscious that plenty of people would like to speak today . I know that the Bill will be welcome by many pet owner who believe that they be do the right thing . I be conscious that a lot of people , when they be on holiday abroad , will see animal and try to bring they back — through conscience , if that be what they feel — but that be not always very wise . we have to be careful about the sort of disease that can be bring into the country , especially in feral animal . of course , we be well know around the world for our love of animal , and we do not like to see they in distress or just abandon . I encourage people who be consider take on a pet to go to one of our brilliant charity and give an animal a second home . I can say from personal experience that it can be very positive ; it can also be a bit of a nightmare deal with some of the behavioural element , which , later in life , can be a bit challenging to correct . however , a rescue cat , a rescue pet — I have never experience a rescue ferret — will love you forever . it be a vital part of animal welfare to ensure that they be go to good home and be not in the hand of criminal . the Bill will address the loophole that exist today . it be an absolute privilege to speak in support of the Bill and well health and welfare standard in our dog , cat and ferret import industry . I congratulate the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on introduce the Bill . I admire the work that she do to tighten our importation regulation and advance animal welfare standard for some of our most love pet . her work be even more important give the absence of any Government legislation to introduce such measure . many of my constituent , and many people in the country more broadly , will be hearten by the hon . member ' s dedication to improve the welfare of our import pet . with National Pet Day on 11 April fast approach , the debate be timely . National Pet Day celebrate the contribution of pet to our life , and highlight the care and welfare requirement of our animal . just a week early , National Ferret Day will be mark on 2 April , celebrate the estimate 100 , 000 pet ferret in the UK . the contribution that cat and dog make to our life will be celebrate on their namesake day , on 8 and 26 August respectively . that show and prove that we be a nation of animal lover — and one that hold particular affection for cat and dog . like many other member , I be sure , I grow up with dog — mainly Lancashire heeler . that is , sadly , a die breed , but they be wonderful dog that be particularly special to my West Lancashire constituency , where we have two kind of heeler : the Lancashire heeler and the Ormskirk heeler . we have Scamp , who be a vicious little beast but be love nevertheless , as well as Pal , Beauty , Becky 1 and , sadly , Becky 2 , Tilly , Tiny and Pippin . everybody in the family be involve in name those dog , and they be very much a part of our family life grow up . as an adult , I have always have cat . unfortunately , we most recently lose Colin to a congenital heart disease . research from the World Population Review this year reveal that the United Kingdom be home to about 12 million dog — the sixth large population of dog in the world . research from various organisation include the PDSA put the percentage of UK household home to a dog at between 29 % and 31 % , which be huge . as of 2023 , the number of cat own be almost as high as dog , with 11 million cat across the United Kingdom . to the many people across this country with a dog , cat or ferret , these animal be not just pet , but value member of our family . for other , a dog or cat can offer the much - need companionship they may not otherwise have . we see the social and personal benefit of animal ownership throughout the pandemic , when 3 . 2 million pet be purchase during the period of lockdown . lack social interaction and instead face social isolation , individual and family alike seek the great companionship that pet can provide . with this nation ' s love and affection for our feline and canine friend in mind , I believe the Bill ' s provision will be welcome by many of our constituent . to understand the importance of the Bill , it be essential to understand the current issue around puppy , kitten and ferret smuggling . currently , these animal can enter this country in two primary way : under the non - commercial rule of the pet travel scheme , or via the commercial importation regime . pet travel rule have make travel with pet both cheap and easy for owner . however , these non - commercial rule have be abuse by puppy and kitten smuggler , particularly those who care not for the health and welfare of these animal , but for the financial reward from this exploitative practice . trader have fraudulently claim pet ownership of numerous puppy and kitten to import these animal under the non - commercial rule of the pet travel scheme , yet these puppy and kitten be commercially sell upon importation . requirement for owner travel with a pet be less stringent than those for commercial import , and rightly so — that be perfectly understandable . smuggler have therefore seek to abuse the pet travel importation route to circumvent more stringent health regulation for their animal . it be the health and welfare of puppy , kitten and ferret that be frequently compromise when these pet be illegally smuggle into the United Kingdom . as I suggest when I outline the sheer number of these pet in this country , the demand for cat and dog be extremely high . the demand for young puppy and kitten from high - value breed be similarly high , as be , sadly , the demand for animal with certain mutilation . cropped - ear dog and declawed cat be both in demand , despite the illegality of both mutilation in this country . the sheer demand for dog and cat of all type , couple with the demand for dog and cat with illegal mutilation under UK law , have encourage the abuse of our animal importation rule . with less stringent regulation , pet importation have be feign , and the health and welfare of import animal have suffer . in 2021 , almost 1 , 000 dog and cat be detain for be non - compliant with exist animal health and welfare legislation , and that be just the number of identify import animal . as with any illicit industry , the true figure could well be far high . it be with those issue in mind that I welcome the Bill ' s provision , which will offer far great protection for the health and welfare of dog , cat and ferret import into this country . the measure outline be eminently sensible . to address the abuse of non - commercial importation rule , it be my understanding that the Bill will reduce the number of animal that can travel under the non - commercial rule from five per person to five per vehicle , or three per foot passenger or air passenger . right now , smuggler be benefit from non - commercial pet importation rule , so reduce the number that any one person can claim as a pet when travel will impinge far on the fraudulent use of this importation route and the associate health and welfare cost of puppy smuggling under this system . more broadly , the Bill ' s provision will put in place high health and welfare standard for import puppy and kitten . ban the import of puppy and kitten under six month of age seem very reasonable because separate puppy or kitten from their mother too early carry a risk of illness or even death for those young animal . we know that the separation of puppy from their mother be not advisable at all before eight week for exactly those reason . in the United Kingdom , it be illegal for a licence holder to sell a puppy as a pet or to permanently separate it from its biological mother before eight week ; and for those who may choose to sell a litter from a family pet , there be a consensus among many welfare and veterinary organisation , such as the Animal Welfare Foundation , the Blue Cross , the PDSA and Dogs Trust , that puppy should not be separate until this age . the emotional and physical distress experience by both the mother and the puppy can be immense , and if not fatal , it can have behavioural consequence for these animal throughout their life . each week a puppy spend with its mother be crucial for its social and behavioural development . bite inhibition and gentle play be teach in this environment and be essential before a puppy be rehome . the recognition of harm to kitten separate from their mother at a young age be also already recognise in legislation . in this country it be illegal for a licensed breeder to sell a kitten under the age of eight week of age . in recent month this place have show great concern about the possession of dangerous dog that pose a risk to public health . ensure a suitable age for import dog and the welfare of these animal should therefore be an equally high priority in this House . to prevent the proliferation of a dangerous dog population in the UK , we need to prevent the importation of animal at high risk of display dangerous behavioural trait . this should include prohibit young puppy without the behavioural maturity and bite inhibition that they learn from their mother . that be why this Bill ' s provision to ban the importation of puppy , kitten and ferret under the age of six month can only be a positive step towards great animal welfare standard and towards reduce our population of dangerous dog that may pose a threat to public health . my hon . friend be make an excellent , thoughtful and well - research speech . do she agree that there be a need for great public information and education , as previously mention in the debate , to reduce the risk of young age puppy be sell ? I thank my hon . friend for his consider intervention and agree wholeheartedly that we need to make sure that public information and education be improve . many people do not understand the impact and possible implication of take a young puppy or kitten so early . they often do this out of the goodness of their heart , and with the good intention of want to look after a young puppy or kitten or get one for their child , but we need to ensure that people be aware of the long - term and often permanent damage that can be do to young puppy and kitten in this way . by remove the ability to import puppy and kitten under the age of six month , we can likely remove the incentive for these animal to be strip from their mother at a critically young age and thus reduce the number of puppy and kitten suffer from the health and welfare consequence of premature separation . we should also prohibit the import of dog and cat that have be mutilate , which several member have talk about . those animal have often suffer the trauma of unnecessary procedure such as ear cropping and tail docking . such mutilation have no health benefit ; they be abusive practice recognise in UK law as illegal . they offer only emotional and physical trauma to the animal on which they be inflict . prevent the importation of animal with these traumatic mutilation will also prevent the importation of animal which , as a result of the physical and emotional trauma cause by the mutilation , can develop behavioural change . dog with cropped ear or dock tail may be recognise by certain member of the public as be more aggressive or dangerous . we hear that regularly — or at any rate I do , in my surgery . if people keep their own pet away from these animal , which they often do for fear of aggression towards they or their dog , the animal will suffer far from a lack of socialisation and their behaviour will worsen far . similarly , the banning of import of dog and cat with mutilation will protect puppy and kitten from harmful practice , and will hopefully instigate a decline in demand for pet with certain physical characteristic . if it be illegal to import a puppy with cropped ear , it be common sense that the incentive to crop that puppy ' s ear at its location of origin will be diminish . if it can not be import and sell legally in the UK , it be logical to conclude that that characteristic will lose the value that it once have to the importer . we may also hope that the criminalisation of certain mutilation will reduce the demand for these practice from the consumer , along with the education refer to by my hon . friend the Member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) . in this place , I frequently hear the argument that the criminalisation of any activity may increase the attractiveness of engage in whatever be be criminalise , but in the case of animal welfare I do not find that argument particularly convincing . we be a nation of animal lover , and I believe that follow the criminalisation of certain mutilation , those want to buy a puppy or kitten may understand well the harm associate with these practice and choose to shun the import animal . we ban they because of the mutilation and because they be damage , not just because this be a fashion that we do not like . as for those whose conscience do not prohibit they from require a mutilate puppy or kitten , the recognition of their pet ' s become illegal in the future might . we can hope that both the importer and the consumer will be discourage from mutilate and acquire mutilate animal respectively . the legal importation will all but disappear , and we may hope — optimistically — that the illegal smuggling trade will face several disruption , with the broad recognition of the harm that mutilate animal have endure . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do she agree that although many of we have learn a great deal about these practice , courtesy of the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , the wide public be not aware of some of the consequence ? could the Government not do much more to inform the public of these practice and support the wide provision of the Bill ? I entirely agree . the wide public be not necessarily aware of that or the wide range of exist legislation , let alone the provision that will be introduce by the Bill if it proceed successfully . by engage in this debate we be help to raise awareness , and I congratulate the hon . member for North Devon on enable that by present the Bill . the propose banning of the import of heavily pregnant dog and cat be another provision that will help to protect animal health and welfare . the plan of those seek to circumvent new rule limit the number of animal import under non - commercial rule would be scupper . those seek to abuse our law will always try to find new way in which to sustain their exploitative operation in any which way they can , but the Bill , well think out as it be , offer great two - layer protection for puppy and kitten . let we imagine a scenario in which a puppy smuggler want to import several puppy or kitten , under the guise of the animal be their pet . the limit to the legal importation of these animal under non - commercial rule on an aeroplane would now be three . cognisant of that limit , a smuggler could have seek to import a heavily pregnant dog or cat which would then give birth in the UK to numerous puppy or kitten which could then be sell . this practice would be limit , with the further provision ban the import of heavily pregnant dog and cat . a puppy smuggler could not simply travel with a heavily pregnant dog or cat under the guise of pet ownership for the animal then to give birth as a commercial opportunity in the UK . crucially , the Bill will also support the health and welfare of pregnant cat and dog , who be our pet and can suffer greatly from international travel when heavily pregnant . the physical and emotional upheaval of long - haul travel can prompt early labour without the necessary veterinary care , and therefore carry risk of harm or death for both the mother and the puppy or kitten involve . in review the specific of the Bill in preparation for the debate , I be astonish to find that some of its provision be not already enshrine in legislation . these be sensible and consider measure for which I can see little downside , and they be well support by other outside this place . the support that the Bill have garner from animal welfare stakeholder and charity demonstrate the benefit its provision could have for the health and welfare of puppy and kitten in the UK . the RSPCA , the Dogs Trust and Battersea Dogs and Cats Home all support measure in the Bill , and they support they when they be introduce in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . those stakeholder be the expert in the field , and their endorsement have reassure I that the measure be well consider and likely to positively impact the health and welfare of cat and dog . in fact , the importance of support the Bill have grow great since the Government abandon the keep animal Bill in May 2023 . the Prime Minister ride back on the commitment he make during his ill - fated leadership election in which he pledge to retain that Bill in the Government ' s legislative agenda . it be leave to Opposition Members to try to revive that Bill in an Opposition day debate on 21 June last year . I speak then in defence of great regulation to ensure the welfare of animal import into this country . despite vote in favour of Labour ' s motion , Government Members reject our good attempt to revive the Bill . I have since press the Government in this place on their failure to support well animal welfare standard . in January , on the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill , I press the Minister about the Government ' s plan on puppy smuggling and ear - crop legislation . however , as the title of that Bill suggest , the Government be concern there not with the importation of domestic pet but with the export of livestock . the absence of legislation in this area be exactly why I be keen to speak today in support of this Bill . the banning of live export be one of the real benefit of our leave the European Union . be we to have stay in , we would not have be able to give that benefit to our livestock . do the hon . Member not agree that that be a real benefit to animal in this country ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . it be unfortunate that , even at that point , we still have not manage to bring anything forward around the importation of pet , and it be disappointing that the keep animal Bill be abandon . we be tell in the House that the Government expect such measure to come forward through private member ' Bills , and I wholeheartedly congratulate the hon . member for North Devon on her Bill . I be delighted that what I consider to be something for the bird at the time have come about , and I be delighted on this occasion to have be wrong . if the moral argument for the Bill — great protection for the health and welfare of domestic animal — be not compelling enough for member across the House , the biosecurity threat pose by a poorly regulate and exploit importation industry should be . that be of particular relevance to my constituent in West Lancashire , which be also a farming community and so rely significantly on biosecurity . puppy , kitten and ferret import into the UK illegally pose a significant risk of parasitic disease . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee take oral evidence on its puppy smuggling inquiry in October 2019 , but the write evidence submit to that inquiry and publish for all member of the House to read be particularly interesting . dog and puppy illegally land in the UK be recognise as present a significant biosecurity risk . the pet travel scheme require microchipping , rabie vaccination , a mandatory pre - travel waiting period and , depend on the country from which the pet be travel , tapeworm treatment and a rabie antibody test result to create a pet passport . the commercial importation scheme have great requirement , as I reference early , and have all the condition of the pet travel scheme alongside a pre - importation veterinary examination , an animal health certificate and pre - notification to the authority to ensure welfare during transportation . the illegal smuggling of pet , where there be not compliance with PTS or commercial importation standard , leave our resident ' pet , animal and we at risk of infectious disease that may spread to other animal or , in some case , people in the UK . my hon . friend be make point that other have not make , so this be a very valuable contribution . will she say something about how animal come in that perhaps have not have those vaccination , or that be not properly certificate as such , can cause devastation to farming community like her , because the disease they carry do not necessarily stick to one individual specie ? this can be a real issue for an entire community . it be all very well have a law , but enforcement be the key to stop these problem arise . I thank my right hon . friend for recognise how important this be in farming community such as mine . this be crucial , and we have legislation in place , some of which many farmer find quite onerous , to protect the biosecurity of their livestock and land . it be particularly relevant in my constituency , which have wetland and bird sanctuary . some protection be difficult to put in place , and I have have long discussion with chicken and wildfowl breeder in West Lancashire about the thing they have to do to protect our nation ' s biosecurity . we need to ensure there be continue awareness of the legislation because , obviously , parasitic infection take no notice of border . as I say in my speech , this be not cover by the Bill , and the British Veterinary Association be quite comfortable that it be not fully include and that the EFRA Committee be continue its work in this area . I thank the hon . Lady for that welcome clarification . the provision in the Bill to reduce the number of animal that can be claim as personal pet , and that can therefore be import under the pet travel scheme regulation , will help to address this biosecurity risk . reduce the number of puppy , kitten and ferret that can be admit to just three will help to reduce the number that a smuggler can import under these less stringent biosecurity rule . propose new article 5a of the regulation should far help to limit abuse of the pet travel scheme . under this article , the movement of a cat , dog or ferret would not be class as non - commercial unless the animal be accompany by its owner , or unless the movement occur within five day of its owner arrive in the country . this change would help to prevent abuse of the non - commercial importation regulation and limit the awful feigning of commercial animal as pet to circumvent the requirement for commercial import . alongside that reduction , the Bill would place an emphasis on great enforcement mechanism , which we have talk about at length . I would welcome any further detail that the hon . member for North Devon can provide to ensure that this sensible and worthwhile legislation be able to be enforce . have look at the Bill with great interest , and have consider the specific of each measure carefully , I be proud to support the hon . member for North Devon in the passage of the Bill . along with many million in this country , I hold our pet in the high regard . they make the life of family and individual up and down the country fuller and bright . it be with the societal benefit of cat , dog and ferret and their welfare and health in mind that I be proud to support the Bill . its measure will protect the welfare of our domestic animal import and protect our animal and public health at home . I also support the Bill because , as I say , we sadly lose our cat , Colin , to congenital heart disease just after we have move house . we be look forward to get a new cat — yet to be name — and hopefully a new dog , which I be insist will be call Kenneth . it be really important to I that legislation be in place to ensure that anybody buy a new cat , dog or ferret as a member of their family can be reassure that it have be treat properly . after the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) , I be seriously consider also get a ferret . my father have always want one . once again , I thank the hon . member for North Devon and congratulate she on pick up what the Government have hitherto refuse to advance . this be a necessary , important and common - sense piece of legislation that I urge all member who be present today to support . it be a joy to follow that incredible speech . I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on introduce the Bill . not only do it help the Government to continue to fulfil the commitment in the conservative manifesto on animal welfare — an area of great concern for a vast number of my south Derbyshire constituent — but crucially , it directly and effectively legislate against those who might attempt to illegally smuggle puppy , kitten and ferret across our border . I be sure that colleague across the House can support that sentiment and will want to get on with this . I have receive many letter from my constituent about the Bill , all ask I to pledge my support , and I submit to do that on the record now . this illegal trade be appal . the puppy trade in the UK , as have be note , be value at £ 3 billion , with around 2 million puppy — a phenomenal number — be sell annually . the number be staggering and when one consider that as much as 50 % of the trade be illegal or unlicensed , the enormity of the issue be really bring into focus . in any industry or trade where the number and profit margin have the potential to be as large as these be , we can always predict that there will be a degree of exploitation . on an issue such as this , however , which involve the welfare and treatment of puppy , kitten and ferret — in some case , barely week old — it be incredibly important that we act . again , I commend my hon . friend for bring this issue to the Floor of the House . the criminal who perpetrate this trade be motivate purely by greed . in most case , these poor animal be either pregnant or newly bear and be keep in condition of squalor and filth until they be then subject to the cramped condition of their smuggling . they be subsequently sell to unsuspecting owner without any knowledge of the hardship that their new pet have undergo . Madam Deputy Speaker , I have take a large chunk of my speech out to make sure that colleague can get in . towards the end of last year , I visit Daisy Brook boarding kennel in my constituency . the owner of the business frequently and legally transfer pet from the UK and Europe across our border and have have plenty of run - in with those who smuggle puppy and kitten illegally . they tell I that the smuggler have a staggering lack of regard for the animal they be smuggle . these young puppy be nothing more than future profit and any thought of the welfare of these animal be non - existent . the Bill be crucial to restrict smuggler , and it will prove yet again that we be a Government for whom the welfare of animal be a top priority . we leave the EU so that we could make our own decision on these issue . the hon . member be obviously very passionate about this issue . do she have any thought about enforcement ? there be widespread support around the House for the measure in the Bill , but the issue of enforcement be key to ensure that we really do stamp out the puppy smuggling trade . I thank the right hon . Lady for that intervention , and I know the Minister will reply fully later . indicate assent . the Minister be nod as I say that . the stipulation in this Bill be clear and will be effective . it will ban the import of puppy , kitten and ferret under the age of six month , ensure that they be not take from their mother too young and , crucially , that they be old enough to travel safely , potentially for long distance . it will ban the import of heavily pregnant dog , cat and ferret , to which the same concern apply . it will ban the importation of dog and cat that have be mutilate by have their tail dock or ear crop or , in the case of cat , by have be declaw , all of which be extremely painful procedure . Most crucially , it will reduce the number of animal that can travel under the non - commercial rule from five in the vehicle to three . that close a loophole currently be exploit by many unscrupulous trader — [ interruption . ] I be nearly finish , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Bill will significantly disrupt the method of pet smuggler and their activity , and will help prevent low animal welfare breeding operation from supply the Great Britain pet market . it will give owner the assurance that the dog , cat and ferret they be buy and allow into their family have not be source illegally nor treat inhumanely . that be undoubtedly a good thing and should be celebrate . what be crucial be that the Bill remove the suffering of those animal ; it must never be allow to be turn into profit by those who be break the law . the situation be tragic , and I fully commend the Bill to the House . I hope all colleague on both side of the House be willing to do the same . if we wish to maintain our position as a leader on animal welfare , which we pride ourselves on , it be crucial that this Bill become law as soon as possible . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for North Devon for introduce it . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I so early . it be much appreciated . animal welfare be a top priority for my constituent . I regularly get hundred of email a month from concerned resident who want to see action on a raft of animal welfare issue , from puppy smuggling to cat declaw and animal testing . as the husband of a veterinary surgeon , I completely concur with my constituent on the importance of this hugely significant policy area . it would of course be remiss of I not to mention my own pet cat , Frank , and the unfortunate recent passing of my cat , Smudge , and my dog , Roger . I fully concur with the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) : pet be indeed part of our family , and be miss as much as family member . I be sure Mr Speaker will concur with that . I have yet to meet Attlee the cat — I do not know whether you have , Madam Deputy Speaker — but I hope to do so at some point in time . many of my constituent have write to I about the abhorrent practice of ear cropping . as colleague may know , in 2022 the RSPCA record a horrify 621 % increase in the number of dog ear cropping report it receive over the previous five year . of course , ear cropping have be illegal in this country since 2006 . the previous Labour Government make sure of that — I will come to labour ' s animal welfare achievement shortly . the RSPCA have real concern that an increase number of dog be be send abroad for ear crop to circumvent UK law . let I be clear that there be absolutely no evidence that ear cropping be necessary or have any medical benefit for dog . innocent dog ' ear be clip , often simply because their owner want their dog to look scarier — for cosmetic reason . most horrifyingly of all , far too often the procedure be carry out by amateur with basic DIY tool and no anaesthetic for the dog . we must be clear that ear cropping be mutilation — it be cruelty . I commend my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) for her very interesting insight into the world of ferret . and just to broach the inevitable question from my family when I return home , no we can not have a ferret . I be immensely pleased to see such an important Bill receive parliamentary time . I pay tribute to the hon . member for North Devon for all her hard work in securing and bring forward the Bill . she be a powerful campaigner on ecological and environmental issue , and on animal welfare . I have immense respect for she . but I have to say that it be a damn indictment of just how far this Conservative Government have give up on govern . they have their own mp legislate from the Back Benches via private member ' Bills , because minister refuse to pass an equivalent Bill in Government time . the Tories repeatedly promise to progress the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , but fail to do so , abandon ship after two Second Readings despite it supposedly be a key manifesto priority for those on the Tory Benches . colleague may recall that Labour attempt to revive the Bill last year . how foolish we be to assume that , just because it be in the Tory manifesto and promise repeatedly during the last election and by Tory Ministers countless time since , the Government would actually stick to their word . I be glad the Government seem to be content with the Bill progressing , but it seem bizarre that they have to be remind of a key plank of their own manifesto from one of their own mp . as my hon . friend the Member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , the shadow Environment Secretary say , it be as plain as day that the Conservatives have simply bottle it . in contrast with this Tory Government , I be immensely proud of the contribution the previous Labour Government make to animal welfare . in 1997 , Labour ban the practice of experiment on great ape and introduce a ban on test cosmetic on animal , extend to include cosmetic ingredient in 1998 . labour then pass the groundbreaking Fur Farming ( Prohibition ) Act 2000 . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way on that point , because it be my private Member ' s Bill that lead to the 2000 Act . although it be talk out on Report by then Opposition mp who do not like the word " prohibition " , it be adopt by the Labour Government and pass into law , which be a very good thing and lead to a european - wide ban on fur farming . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention , and for all the work and effort she make to make that possible . Labour pass the Hunting Act 2004 , which ban the hunting with dog of fox , deer , hare and mink . we ban the use of drift net in fishing , free dolphin , sea bird and other sea creature from painful and cruel ensnarement . labour ' s Animal Welfare Act 2006 see , for the first time , animal owner responsible for ensure that the welfare need of their animal be meet . Labour have a proud animal welfare legacy and it be a privilege to represent a constituency that continue to take these issue so very seriously . this Bill will finally make provision for restriction on the live importation of dog , cat and ferret , as originally attempt in the fail Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . I be pleased the Bill have the support of many other , include pet at home and Vets for Pets , who have long support action on this issue and whom I recently visit . the condition on importation set out in the Bill be vital for effort to continue to drive up animal welfare standard in the UK . the Bill ' s ban of the importation of kitten and puppy under the age of six month , and dog or cat that be more than 42 day pregnant , or which have be mutilate by ear cropping , declaw or tail docking , be welcome provision that will bring a wave of relief to my constituent in Wakefield who care so passionately about this issue . touch briefly on cat smuggling , I be pleased that the Bill have the support of Cats Protection . its research find that 50 , 000 cat be obtain overseas in 2022 - 23 . without strong restriction on import condition , there be very little that we can do to ensure that these cat get the veterinary treatment they need for legal entry into this country . without strong law , there be very little that we can do to ensure that a cat ' s travel condition or point of origin be not traumatic , which be so often the case . stress from long journey be well document and , as my husband have attest , can cause cat painful cystitis . it be critical for animal welfare that we get this right . I particularly welcome the provision for the regulation of the number of cat , dog and ferret that can be import at a time per vehicle or foot passenger before it be deem a commercial import . this be a vital part of the Bill that will go some way towards address the scourge of puppy and kitten smuggling and of animal mutilation , both of which blight our animal welfare reputation and actively harm the welfare of hundred of animal every year . I welcome the Bill , and I sincerely hope that the Government provide the parliamentary time for its progression . it be a privilege and an honour to speak in this vital debate . I declare my strong personal and professional interest as a veterinary surgeon and a fellow of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons . I strongly support the Bill . I have have to frantically rewrite the introduction to my speech , have hear my colleague name - check their pet . I know that my two lovely dog , Poppy and Juno , be follow the debate closely , so I now have to name - check they . they would never forgive I if I do not , and I be sure that they would punish I by roll in something unspeakable . we be a nation of animal lover . animal provide we with so much companionship , and help our physical and mental wellbeing . I commend my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) for drive forward this important Bill and colleague across the House for support this important area of legislation over many year . I also commend many charity , institution and organisation . the British Veterinary Association , Dogs Trust — I mention specifically Paula Boyden , its veterinary director , who have do so much work on this issue — Cats Protection , Blue Cross , Battersea , the RSPCA , four Paws , the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation and the veterinary surgeon Marc Abraham have do so much on this issue . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee have take a close interest in this area for many year , and we have run various inquiry in recent year . one be about move animal across border , and we have a current inquiry on pet welfare and abuse , which deal with a lot of the issue that we be discuss today . we have an emergency special session this week on issue face the veterinary sector , and we look at biosecurity and animal welfare as well . I welcome the fact that this Bill be about dog , cat and ferret , because it be important that we encompass all those animal . I also welcome the fact that the Bill will increase the minimum age on importation to six month . I note that some measure be not in the Bill , but also that we want to get this legislation on the statute book as soon as possible . I hope that the Government will bring in secondary legislation to add thing as and when necessary . we need to keep the option open for future secondary legislation to include thing such as reinstate the rabie titer check and increase the post - rabie vaccination wait time to 12 week . such measure would help to reinforce the increase in the minimum age to six month . I hugely welcome the change to the policy on heavily pregnant animal . on the EFRA Committee over the last few year , we have take harrowing evidence of the awful trade in heavily pregnant animal be ship into this country to give birth and then ship back out again , sometimes with fresh suture wound . it have be awful and harrowing to hear that evidence . since 2019 , Dogs Trust have take in 168 pregnant dog that have be transport . currently , it be not permit to transport dog and cat in the last 10 % of pregnancy . it be difficult to assess when that be , so include the last third of pregnancy in the ban be a very important step . we need to keep a watching brief on whether unscrupulous trader be flip between the non - commercial and commercial movement of animal , and whether we need to act on the commercial importation of pregnant animal as well . we have take evidence show that there be bad people ship animal in . over recent year , these unscrupulous trader have be switch between commercial and non - commercial movement , and when the authority move one way , they move the other . we need to keep a watching brief on this . I welcome that clause 4 state that a movement be not non - commercial if there be more than five animal per vehicle . that be very important . many institution and charity want the figure to be three per vehicle , but five per vehicle be an awful lot well than 20 per vehicle , because people be pick up passenger and say , " these pet be with these passenger on board . " the five animal per vehicle rule will be a game changer . it appear to I that clause 5 will allow Ministers to bring in secondary legislation , so we do need to keep a watching brief and to allow secondary legislation . when previous law have come in , unscrupulous people have find loophole that be not predict by the legislator draw they up , so we need to be able to act to close the loophole . there have be a lot of discussion today about the mutilation of dog and cat , and the Bill will do much to tackle that . to be clear , ear cropping be an absolutely horrific practice that have no role in a civilised society . there be no medical or clinical benefit to the animal in have its ear crop . as have be discuss , a lot of this be about how the dog look — it make they look more formidable or ferocious . there have be an upsurge in the prevalence of dog with cropped ear ; when we be walk around , we see these dog now . the Select Committee have also take harrowing evidence on this practice . it be illegal in this country to crop a dog ' s ear , but we have evidence that it have be take place here . People be do it in horrific circumstance , potentially in their back garden shed . look online , we see that the situation be horrific ; there be online ear cropping kit . we need to stamp that out as well . this law be important and it will help address that ; it will close the loophole . we must look at popular culture as well , include popular animate film . one of my favourite film that I watch with my child be the Disney Pixar film " up " , which we all absolutely love , but if you look closely at the dog in that film , you will see that many of they be crop . if people be go to the cinema with their kid and see this on the big screen , it look normal , and that be wrong . in the last couple of year , there be another hugely successful animate film , the " Super - pets " movie . again , the lead character be an ear - crop dog . many people in our country who love their animal do not realise that ear cropping be not normal and want their dog to look like that . unfortunately , there be a popular and celebrity culture as well . we need to educate people that these dog have be horrifically mutilate . the Bill will close that loophole . my hon . friend the Member for North Devon raise the important issue of brachycephalic dog : dog with very short face that have real difficulty breathe . that be so important , because they be lovely and wonderful dog but they have a lot of clinical difficulty . we need to do work to make sure that in the future breeding of these dog , their nose become long again so that they can breathe more easily . again , this appear in popular culture and in the advertising of product . I will not name they , but a lot of major product use image of brachycephalic dog in their advertising . we need to be very cautious about that . may I draw the hon . Gentleman back to his previous profession ? when a vet see a dog that be unsuitable for breeding , do the hon . Gentleman think that the vet , instead of facilitate the breeding process , have a responsibility to say , " no , we ' re not let this go forward " ? I can give the hon . Lady a categorical reassurance that the veterinary profession be strongly look at the issue very closely . it also have a role in educate the pet - own public about where to source their dog responsibly and to ensure that those dog have a good and happy life . but yes , the veterinary profession be look at this closely . what come into frame with ear - crop dog be an upsurge in the past few year of unregulated canine fertility clinic , where act of veterinary surgery be be perform by people who be not qualified . in future , we need to ensure that we strongly clamp down on those practice as well . I be absolutely delighted that the Bill include cat . the mutilation include those cat that have be horrifically declawed . there be no benefit to the cat in be declaw . the Bill will help an awful lot of cat . in future , we need to look at whether secondary legislation be need . we will ban the import of ear - crop dog , but we need to think , too , about ban the onward sale of those dog in this country . however , I hope that the Bill will stop the importation , so that that may not be necessary . again , we need to keep a watching brief . many colleague today have talk about disease . the importation of animal present a risk to not only animal in this country , but people . one major disease that we be concerned about be canine brucellosis , cause by Brucella canis . there be 143 positive case in dog from 2020 to 2022 and 160 positive case in 2023 . there have be two laboratory - confirm case in people . this be a disease — zoonosis — that can be transmit from dog to people . the Bill will ban the importation of heavily pregnant dog . one of the main exposure to brucellosis be when a pregnant dog come into the country and whelp here — the birthing fluid be a potential risk for people . vet , nurse and practitioner on the frontline be at risk , as be owner . as I say , two people in this country have contract the disease . Brucellosis be an unpleasant disease for the dog . treatment be not recommend ; the prognosis be poor and often euthanasia be recommend . it be also an unpleasant illness in people , especially in vulnerable and immuno - compromise people . it be a salient point to make that we need to be cognisant that law like this will help the situation , because we have see an increase of dog come in that have such disease . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech . give his experience as a vet , to what extent do he think that enforcement be an issue ? I think that there be widespread support around the House for the provision in the Bill , but enforcement be key . do he think that that be get well or bad ? enforcement be pivotal . I chair the EFRA Committee this week , in the Chair ' s absence , and we have a special session on issue face the veterinary sector . we look closely at biosecurity , animal health and welfare , and thing like the Animal and Plant Health Agency . it be about be vigilant about disease and monitor they . later in my speech , I will touch on how we can do more in that area . on the importation of dog , as we have say , in the UK people love their animal . a lot of people think that they be do the right thing by import and rescue those dog . we have see a surge of dog come over from the continent of Europe — from eastern Europe , Macedonia and so on — and some of those dog have have disease like brucellosis and leishmaniasis , and that be where we need to be careful . People think that they be do the dog a favour , but unscrupulous people be probably round up street dog to bring they over , when that do not benefit the dog in its own country . at the same time , we need to remember that we have animal welfare charity in this country absolutely full of lovely dog that need to be rehome . People in this country can do a well thing by seek their dog , cat and other pet from such charity . may I give a huge shout out and say thank you to all those animal welfare charity and shelter that do so much to rescue these animal ? we have see a real upsurge in pet ownership through the pandemic — people talk about pandemic puppy . People take on animal in different circumstance , and now many have go back to work and can not deal with they . many of these animal be not socialise . in the EFRA Committee inquiry , we have see an increase in behavioural issue , with animal welfare charity pick up the slack . I pay tribute to those charity ; they have a really important and stressful job , and we be very lucky to have they . we need to keep vigilant when it come to biosecurity . we should think about introduce secondary legislation on pre - importation check for dog , so that we can check they for brucella canis when they come in . in 2012 , the EU stop the mandatory treatment against tick and tapeworm in some animal come in . now that we have leave the European Union , we have the opportunity to reinstate that mandatory treatment . let I illustrate how that could be important . Madam Deputy Speaker , just up the road from your constituency in Epping Forest be Harlow . a few year ago , a dog pick up babesiosis on a walk in Harlow . the dog have never be out of the country , so have pick up that disease from a tick in a field in Harlow , Essex . obviously , a dog have go out of the country , or come back in , and have not be treat , drop the tick and a dog here get that disease . that illustrate how a simple change through secondary legislation could protect dog in this country . that be something that we need to consider . we have talk a lot about biosecurity , and we have mention today the Animal and Plant Health Agency , which do fantastic work in keep our country safe . it have deal with incredible threat in recent year : it have be tackle avian influenza ; it be work closely on bovine tuberculosis ; and now there be the increase threat of bluetongue , which the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) be look at very closely . as the midge season approach , this virus will put everyone under pressure . again , I pay tribute to those people on the frontline who be try to do so much to keep the animal and plant health of our nation safe and , indirectly , human public health as well . the Minister know where I be go with this . we have the chief veterinary officer in front of the EFRA Committee this week , again reaffirm the importance of upgrade and do a full refurbishment of the APHA headquarters in Weybridge . it need a £ 2 . 8 billion refurbishment , which be a lot of money when we be financially constrain as a country , but that money need to be spend because it will save a lot of heartache and money in the future . I urge the Government to move forward on that ; we need to be prepare . now that we have leave the European Union , there have be much talk about enforcement and check of animal come in . prior to our leave the EU , these animal be come in with no check at all , so we have a real opportunity now to strengthen our biosecurity . there be now the border target operating model , which have be the subject of many question . our Select Committee be take a close interest in that , so we have be down to Dover . as I say , we have an opportunity now to strengthen our biosecurity and we must get it right . we must fund it right and staff it properly . we need to make sure that we inform these bad people — the unscrupulous people who will try to unpick this legislation and find loophole — that there will be random check on port to make sure that , if they be come in on a weekend , on a different day or through a different port , they could be detect . that will protect animal health and welfare in this country . I digress a little , but we have talk a lot about animal health and welfare and crop dog , so let I mention the XL Bully dog , which have have an awful lot of ear cropping . the Government have now introduce , in my view , the necessary legislation to protect people and other animal from some of those dog . some be fine , but some be really very dangerous indeed . I be very appreciative of the Government , include the Secretary of State and Ministers for listen to I , the BVA and the EFRA Committee on extend the neuter deadline for young dog under seven month at the end of January this year . the neuter deadline have be extend to June 2025 . that might seem a small point , but it be important for exempt register XL Bully dog . there will be health benefit — if they be spay or castrate too early , they have clinical difficulty — and this will relieve pressure on the veterinary sector move forward . I be glad to welcome the legislation . the Conservative Government have a strong record on animal welfare , as we : pass the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 ; institute the Animal Sentience Committee ; introduce the Sentencing Act 2020 , which increase sentence for cruelty to animal ; introduce compulsory microchipping of cat ; and ban the keeping of primate as pet . we also have further Bills come in , include on pet theft and livestock worry . we be a nation of animal lover . we have the high animal welfare standard in the world . with Bills like this , we can be a beacon to the rest of the world . animal welfare unite we in humanity and across the House . as a Member of Parliament and a veterinary surgeon , I welcome the Bill , which have my full support . I thank the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) for introduce the Bill . I join everyone else who have speak in support of it . People in Croydon love their pet . we be lucky enough to be one of the green London borough with beautiful park , as people will know . we have thousand of animal lover and pet in our borough . as have already be mention , during the covid pandemic , there be a big increase in the number of people decide that they want a cat or a dog . Croydon have see a large increase in the same way . we need to ensure that , when people get a cat or a dog — or , indeed , a ferret , about which we learn much from my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) — thing be do in the right way , and they be not buy an animal that have be illegally smuggle into the country . other Labour Members have point to the Labour Government ' s record on animal welfare . my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) herself introduce legislation . in 1997 , I be work for a Labour MP , and we be introduce the banning of foxhunt . I remember that we receive literally hundred of handwritten letter — we do not really use email back then — from people who be desperate to see an end to foxhunt , cosmetic testing and all the other thing for which legislation be introduce under the last Labour Government . I join colleague in their disappointment that the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill be not pass . we be grateful to the hon . member for North Devon for bring in some measure that we can all support . like other member , many of my constituent have write , ask I to support the Bill . Jan , a big supporter of Cats Protection who write to I often , say that accord to the Cats Protection stat of 2023 , 50 , 000 cat be obtain from an overseas source in the 12 month precede its survey . of course , it be unclear what condition those cat or kitten be subject to during their travel . when I be shadow Policing Minister , I would talk to senior police officer up and down the country about crime in their area , and I hear increasingly about the smuggling of pet . I remember talk to a senior police officer in the north - east who say that they be deal with very serious and large criminal gang , with a presence across multiple country , who would smuggle people , drug , vape and pet — it be big business . of course , there be not much enforcement to stop that practice from happen . my hon . friend be make a very powerful case . if someone smuggle drug or arm be catch , the penalty be severe . for smuggling kitten or puppy , the penalty be virtually non - existent , let alone the enforcement . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . if someone be catch smuggle drug or people , they face year in prison . from the information I have look at , if the police do a sting — they do so sometimes , although not often , because they do not have the resource — and manage to catch someone who have be smuggle pet into the country illegally , that person will be look at a couple of month ' imprisonment as a maximum , and probably not even that . for a criminal gang manage the risk , it be a worthwhile crime to introduce the puppy into this country , particularly give that their cost can run into several thousand pound each . we need to do more to get rid of and stamp down on this practice . I welcome the Bill ' s provision , but , as other member have say , I think we need to go far on enforcement and other measure . I want to briefly touch on my journey try to buy and get a pet . during the covid pandemic , my child be push I to get a dog , while my husband be very against it , which I think be not uncommon in family . my child finally win the argument , and we decide to get a dog . I have not buy an animal before and I realise that the whole situation be a bit of a minefield . the first thing I do be to go online , where there be hundred of website sell pet , and I have no idea where they have come from or what their quality of life have be so far , nor whether they have be bring into this country legally or not . pets4home be a big site ; and Gumtree sell thousand of pet , as do puppy . co . uk and foreverpuppy . co . uk . I look on many different site and do not know what I be look for , nor how to avoid do something I should not . I look at some charity , which provide really useful information on what to do and what not to do ; Dogs Trust have particularly good information about what to avoid . I find out that I need to see good picture of the animal with its mother , and to ring up the person who be sell it and have a conversation with they . I then need to go and see the animal , make sure its mother and father be there , and look at the surrounding . on several occasion , that mean I be able to pick up on something slightly dodgy . I report several case because I could not see the animal ' s mother or its background , and the owner be not ask I anything about my background ; it do not feel right . I also report a seller when I go to visit some puppy in a flat , because the flat be immaculate and there be no evidence that anyone be live there — there be just a crate of puppy and a man . I be just not comfortable that the situation be what it should have be , so I report the situation . be my hon . friend aware of a recent " Coronation Street " storyline on precisely this issue ? it involve the indomitable Evelyn , who be , of course , play by Maureen Lipman , and cover the issue around puppy farming . it be a strong , educational storyline in a well - watch and much - love soap opera , and illustrate my hon . friend ' s point exactly . I thank my hon . friend for that excellent intervention . " Coronation Street " , like all the soap , do quite a good job in help to educate we about some of these issue . I have to look online for information to ensure I be make the right choice . we end up find somebody who have bring a rescue dog over from Ukraine and have realise that the dog be pregnant , which they have not know at the time . the dog give birth to only one puppy , which be quite rare and often mean that the dog have have some maltreatment . we adopt that puppy , who be bear in this country , with the mother have be bring over from Ukraine . lot of constituent have be in touch about this issue and lot of member have give statistic show why it be important that we take action . we be talk about a multimillion - pound industry across country , with UK sale of up to 2 million puppy annually and a value of anything up to £ 2 billion . some 50 % of the industry be illegal or unlicensed . as the illegal trade have change , so have its production system . we be give many helpful briefing , from many organisation , for this debate . one from Battersea tell we that " farm breed puppy on an industrial scale be just as likely to be find in urban tower block , or warehouse in Eastern Europe , as they be in ramshackle , shiveringly cold , and filthy cage in shed and shack on repurpose smallholding . " a four Paws report on the illegal puppy trade in the UK find that more than 30 % of import puppy be from Romania alone . accord to respondent to Cats Protection ' s " cat and their Stats " 2023 survey , 3 % of the cat that be obtain in the 12 month precede the survey be from abroad , which equate to 50 , 000 cat — there be no clarity as to the condition . as have be say , puppy and kitten that be import too young face a much high risk of develop illness or suffer an early death . I should have congratulate the hon . member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) , who make an excellent speech and know much more about this and the impact that these thing can have on our animal . I listen with great interest and learn a lot during his speech . raise the age minimum in this regard will allow animal to grow old and it will protect they a bit more from travel long and stressful journey . it would be welcome and would stop a lot of the sale of those very young pet ; we do see that online and it be easy to find , with multiple advert where young puppy or kitten be be advertise as four , five or six week old and ready for home . as I have say , puppy smuggling be an unchecked criminal activity , which cause suffering to animal and heartache and financial cost to their owner . it help fund wide organise crime and present an evidence disease transmission threat . my constituent be very pleased with the hon . member for North Devon for introduce this legislation . we have talk a lot about enforcement and the concern that a piece of legislation be only as good as the enforcement that go with it . the enforcement of exist law and regulation be not adequate , so I have significant question about enforcement . however , the Bill be a step on the journey in the right direction , and , on behalf of the dog , cat and ferret lover in Croydon , I welcome it . let I start by give many congratulation to my dear and good friend , my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on introduce this excellent Bill . I know from the hundred of email I receive every year on this subject that my constituent be animal lover who be passionate about animal welfare . in line with the tradition observe this morning , I will name the three dog I own : Lucky , who be a rescue dog , be otherwise know as @ lucksthepatterjack on Instagram and have more follower than I do ; Lulu , a retired guide dog and the most intelligent dog ever ; and Brooke , our adopt dog , who be possibly the most loving and placid of dog , so much so that she continue to wag her tail while throw up on the carpet . as the proud owner of those three dog , I share the view of my constituent and so welcome the ambitious reform that the Government have introduce since 2010 , include the mandatory microchipping of dog and cat , and the modernisation of the licensing system for dog breeding and pet sale , to name just two . the low - welfare movement of dog , cat and ferret from abroad to the UK by unscrupulous people seek to maximise their profit at the expense of the animal be horrendous and must be stop . sadly , the trade be big business . a joint briefing I receive from Battersea Dogs and Cats Home , Cats Protection , the Dogs Trust , four PAWS UK and the RSPCA say : " the puppy trade have become a multi - million , trans - national industry , with UK sale of up to two million puppy annually at a value of anything up to £ 3 billion . however , as much as 50 % of this industry be either illegal or unlicensed and off the enforcement radar , and half of that originate from outside the UK . " more concerningly , animal smuggling be part of a much wide web of criminality . the charity confirm that " within the trade , other criminality converge , include drug dealing , money laundering and even people traffic . " I be therefore pleased to stand on a manifesto at the last election that commit we to crack down on the illegal smuggling of animal , and I welcome the repetition of that commitment in the Government ' s 2021 action plan for animal welfare . this Bill will enact the Government ' s commitment and restrict the movement of dog , cat and ferret into the UK on ground of animal welfare — for example , if they be under six month old , be mutilate , such as by have their ear crop , or be heavily pregnant . that be essential , as many of those animal be breed and rear in appalling condition . that be highlight by a number of my constituent , who raise the abhorrent practice of ear cropping . they say : " the RSPCA have experience that show that this have be do on puppy without any veterinary intervention or anaesthetic , which can result in long term pain and trauma . cut a dog ' s ear can also harm their ability to communicate , mean their social skill be impair for life . after everything they ' ve endure , a dog ' s behaviour can also be impact . " rightly , the Bill also address the issue of commercial import be disguise as non - commercial movement , which allow breeder to avoid comply with the more stringent requirement in place for commercial import . I be very pleased that clause 4 set out the restriction , and I be grateful for the number of dog allow , as I occasionally take my dog to France , where my mother live . no one should be able to profit off the distress of animal . combine , these reform will go a long way to safeguard vulnerable animal and disrupt a supply chain that help fund serious criminal activity . it will also cement the UK ' s position as a country with some of the high animal welfare standard in the world . I welcome the fact that the Bill not only have the support of the Government but the backing of a number of important animal welfare charity , include the Dogs Trust , which I have have the pleasure of visit in my constituency . I add my support to the Bill , and I again thank my hon . friend the Member for North Devon — and Henry the dog — for bring forward the Bill and speak so passionately on the issue . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I congratulate the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on bring forward this important bill . Feltham and Heston be a community of animal lover , and animal welfare be one of the issue that be constantly prevalent in my inbox — I be sure it be the same for colleague . constituency - level polling show that two third of my constituent feel that animal welfare should be a priority for political party . I thank my constituent Judith Ross , Brenda Pugh , Elaine Fogarty , Shirley o ' Leary , Jacqui Meades and many other for their consistent championing of animal right . the hon . Lady make a very strong case for reform in support of animal health and welfare , and to tackle the exploitation of very vulnerable animal . change introduce by the previous Labour Government leave an indelible mark on british history and have stand the test of time . they include the ban on fox hunting and fur farming and the action take to stop experimentation on great ape and cosmetic testing on animal . the belief in protect animal welfare , share by the Labour party and colleague from across the House , be a matter of principle and conviction . my constituent be rightly appal that the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , a 2019 manifesto commitment , be shelve by the Conservative Government and that conservative MPs also vote against Labour ' s plan , which I support , to ensure that the Bill have parliamentary time last June . it be important that we be now have this debate and I be proud to have attend this week ' s Dogs Trust event , which be sponsor by the hon . member for North Devon . that highlight its decade of work on end puppy smuggling . I thank it for all that it do . although I congratulate the hon . member on introduce today ' s Bill , which clearly have cross - party support , it be puzzle that it be the responsibility of Back Benchers to bring in this important legislation . it can hardly be say that we have a crowded legislative agenda in the House . there should be enough Government time to necessitate this . these issue be also raise by the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee in 2016 , 2019 and 2021 . give that the Government have be so enthusiastic about take advantage of Brexit bonus when they relate to sack strike nurse , scrap consumer right or undermine environmental protection , it beggar belief that it have take so long for we to have proposal on much - need and uncontroversial tweak to the EU pet travel scheme . the Bill will close three important loophole in the pet travel rule that apply to non - commercial movement to prevent unscrupulous trader from exploit the rule . Puppy , kitten and ferret smuggling be a significant problem that cause immense pain and huge distress to the animal affect . it be a widespread and horrify practice . in 2019 , Dogs Trust tell the EFRA Committee that as many as 450 , 000 puppy each year come from unknown source . investigation conduct by Four Paws have reveal that almost a third of survey classified ad relate to puppy illegally import from eastern Europe . these puppy be often breed in puppy farm , remove from their mother before they turn eight week old , and subject to horrific mutilation practice such as ear crop or dock tail . Dogs Trust tell that story again so powerfully this week . they may also be subject to abuse in transit , with puppy sometimes as young as four week import into the UK , often travel across Europe in cramped condition without food , exercise or toilet break and minimal water . they be then sell to unsuspecting owner , make huge profit for the smuggler . give the poor condition in which these dog be raise , many then face serious and chronic health problem and socialisation issue . the Bill will ensure that smuggler can not subject puppy to mutilation practice , far crack down on these cruel practice that be illegal in the UK and the EU . I acknowledge the powerful contribution that have be make today , which include point about the illegal trade and , importantly , the awareness of where the mother and father have come from and their welfare , as my hon . friend the Member for Croydon Central ( Sarah Jones ) say . there be also important contribution from the hon . member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) about disease that come with illegal importation . we be all indebted to my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) for her discussion of ferret , include she challenge some of the myth and highlight the character and companionship of ferret . I also want to speak to some broad issue that be important to consider in the context of the Bill . I particularly want to mention XL Bullies , because I have have representation from some very concerned constituent . I will mention some of the issue that they have share with I . it have be suggest that the Government drop the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill because there be wide issue that need to be consider , and individual reform can not always be consider in isolation . all animal deserve to live high - quality life , and it be important that we have open and honest debate about the challenge that we still need to address . the fact that animal have a right to live high - quality life be the reason why the last Labour Government pass the landmark Animal Welfare Act 2006 , which be lead by my right hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Dame Margaret Beckett ) . on XL Bullies , there have be call to review the implementation of change to the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 and breed - specific legislation . write evidence be submit in October by the Dog Control Coalition , which comprise Battersea Dogs and Cats Home , Blue Cross , the British Veterinary Association , Dogs Trust , Hope Rescue , RSPCA and other . it recognise the importance of take action and the deep concern about recent dog - bite incident , their horrific consequence , and the injury and death that have occur . there be a clear need to tackle that issue , but there be concern that simply ban a breed , for which there may be limit verifiable evidence , will not necessarily tackle the root cause of such incident . there be acknowledgment that the large the breed , the great the capacity for harm if the dog display aggressive behaviour . however , there can be a false assumption that all other dog be safe , when the reality be that any dog could have the capacity to be dangerous if irresponsibly breed , rear and socialise . the Dog Control Coalition have raise concern about the potential consequence of breed - specific legislation , which could impact on far more dog and owner than intend , and lead to many thousand of dog that be behaviourally and medically sound be put to sleep , as they would be include in a broad standard , even if they be cross - breed . the coalition also raise concern about the enforceability of a ban , and about the surge in demand for the involvement of police , local authority , veterinary clinic , and rescue and rehome organisation . will my hon . friend give way ? order . before the right hon . Lady intervene and the hon . Lady go far down this route , let I say that I have a personal , passionate interest this subject . I be pay great attention to what the hon . Lady be say , and she have rather move away from the context of the Bill . do my hon . friend agree that many XL Bully dog be import illegally ? that be one of the reason why what she be say be in order . I hope you agree , Mr Deputy Speaker . my right hon . friend be correct , and it be important that these issue be consider more widely . illegal breeding mean that we can not be sure about the safety of pet that people may purchase in good faith , and there will be challenge with how they have be breed and look after . you may be aware , Mr Deputy Speaker , that we have much by way of illegal , backstreet breeder , and that be not just in the UK . there ought to be more regulation of breeding . backstreet breeder in this country can breed three litter a year without a licence , so could end up with 30 pup a year be sell at £ 5 , 000 each , with those dog rear to be aggressive . in fact , in the light of the recent ban , how it be be review and how it be be enforce , other , more aggressive dog breed be be breed through backstreet breeder . my constituent have raise some concern on what we know about pet and where they may have come from . they have also raise the devastating impact of have a pet — a member of the family — at risk of be put down . I have have constituent in tear who say they have come under the scope of the legislation and can no long transport their dog in their car if they be drive alone , and they live alone with their dog . order . I be sorry to have to interrupt the hon . Lady . there be a great deal of meat in this Bill , which she and I both understand very well indeed , but she really be go very wide of the subject . could I please bring she back to the subject of the Bill under discussion this morning ? thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be go to conclude my remark there . I wholeheartedly welcome the Bill and the opportunity to look at the wide issue . when the Bill pass , as I hope it will , we must ensure that it will be successful in achieve its goal as well as be a catalyst for address the wide issue in this context . it be a great pleasure to be call to speak and to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on this vital animal welfare Bill . as a proud patron of the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation and a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary dog advisory welfare group , this issue be very close to my heart . twelve year ago , I be dupe and sell dog by what I now realise be clever puppy smuggler . I want to highlight what happen to I to show how the work that the Government have do since have really make a difference . I have lose my beloved rescue dog — in my lifetime , we have rescue a couple of dozen dog , often have three at a time — who be kill in a traffic accident in the country . I be in bit . my mother find another ruby cavalier online — it look legitimate — and take I to go and see this young puppy . on arrive , we be greet by two man , who tell we that their mother , a responsible breeder , be upstairs and sadly about to pass away . the whole cottage we be in be set up like an elderly lady ' s home — it have picture , chintz and all those homely surrounding — but I do notice that the dog be not happy ; they look distressed . we go to see a ruby cavalier who be eight week old — he look quite ordinary — but another dog there , who be six month old , be catatonic . he be stare at the floor , do not react and do not interact . however , when either of the man go near he , he shake and be visibly terrified . my mother and I leave with both dog . when someone tell you there be a terminally ill elderly lady upstairs , you do not ask question about see the mother or make those ordinary check . we be suspicious but want to believe that we have not be dupe . month later , I meet someone else with cavalier who have be tell exactly the same story by those people four year before . this clever scam have evidently be go on for some time . it take perhaps three year for the catatonic dog to be able to interact when out on walk . I can not imagine what he have go through while be smuggle and take away from his mother . it be an horrific trade . I campaign for Lucy ' s law before I be a Member , and I meet Lucy the cavalier and her owner , Lisa . I commend their campaigning , and the campaigning of so many other rescue dog owner , to clamp down on this abominable trade that have upset so many dog and so many owner . my constituent in Wolverhampton North East send I so many email about dog and cat welfare — less so about ferret welfare , but I be sure that ferret lover across the land will be reassure by this Bill . the recent campaign about which my constituent have write to I include greyhound race . Monmore Green stadium in Wolverhampton recently close its motorcycle speedway in order to accommodate more greyhound racing , and I urge the Minister not to let Wolverhampton become the home of UK greyhound racing , which be drive by online bet in the far east that have no benefit to my constituency but promote some questionable welfare practice . I will not speak for long , because I know that so many member want to talk in this debate . this Bill will clamp down on evil puppy smuggler who transport pregnant dog across border . I have be tell that often , if it be a profitable breed , smuggler will ship over a pregnant dog and then take she back abroad , before start again . these poor female dog be be use to create mountain of money for unscrupulous people . the price of dog rocket during the pandemic , and we know that pedigree dog can fetch thousand of pound — the price have increase tenfold in some case . I thank everyone , especially the hon . member for North Devon , for their contribution . we be all united on animal welfare . I commend the Minister for the Government ' s work , and I urge he to push even far by support the many private member ' Bills on animal welfare . my Glue Traps ( Offences ) Act 2022 will thankfully come into force this year , and we all want the Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill to be adopt and on the statute book as quickly as possible . I be pleased to speak in support of the Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill . this Bill , and the issue that it seek to tackle , be very important to many of my constituent in Ealing North . since I be elect , I have be contact nearly 900 time about specific campaign to strengthen our country ' s animal welfare legislation , include on the Bill before we today and other important piece of animal welfare legislation , from the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill to the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill . pass this legislation be an important priority for many of my constituent . I be therefore glad to be here today to speak in support of the Bill , which include measure to raise the minimum age of import dog and cat to six month , as well as ban the importation of dog and cat that be more than 42 day pregnant or that be mutilate . in this context , mutilation mean , for example , dog that have have their ear crop or tail dock , and cat that have be declaw . I have long support a ban on the importation of cat and dog under the age of six month or over 42 day pregnant . like many other hon . member , I have hope that the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , introduce in 2021 , would address these issue . that Bill include provision to limit the number of dog , cat or ferret that can be move on a non - commercial basis , and to set restriction on the condition of animal that can be bring into the country . as we know , the Bill be carry over into the subsequent parliamentary session , but the Government announce in May 2023 that the Bill would not proceed far in its current form . like many of my constituent , I be very disappointed when the Government drop that Bill . I support an Opposition motion to bring it back to Parliament , as draft , but the Government vote it down . that decision be not what I want , nor what my constituent and our dedicated animal welfare charity want , and it delay the introduction of legislation . however , it be welcome that this Bill be be debate here today , with support from member on both side of the House , and I be pleased to be here to support it . I know that my constituent be far from alone in want to see legislation such as this in place . many member have express that view today , and datum from a 2023 survey conduct by YouGov on behalf of Dogs Trust show that 83 % of voter believe that the UK Government should " crack down on the illegal smuggling of dog into the UK " . we know that the importation of cat and dog be a problem on a significant scale : in 2020 , the Government report that some 6 , 768 cat and 66 , 952 dog have be commercially import into the UK . the Bill seek to address the problem by enable the national authority in each of the UK ' s four nation to make regulation that would help to protect the welfare of dog , cat and ferret by impose condition on their importation into the UK . as we have hear from the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , whom I congratulate , the regulation introduce under the Bill would prohibit the importation of puppy or kitten under six month old , and that of dog or cat that be more than 42 day pregnant or have be mutilate . furthermore , the Bill would address the problem of commercial import be disguise as non - commercial one by limit the number of dog , cat and ferret that can be import to five per vehicle or three per foot passenger . I understand that a key difference between this Bill and the keep animal Bill that the Government drop last year be that this Bill specify what the regulation must include — namely the prohibition of the importation of animal that be less than six month old , more than 42 day pregnant , or mutilate . the keep animal Bill enable those limit to be determine when the regulation be make , and I be pleased that this Bill make the provision more explicit at this stage . I be pleased to be here to support the Bill , because strengthen our animal welfare law be a priority for I and many other member . however , beyond the important legislation that we be debate now , I believe that there be many other aspect of animal welfare that need to be address through the introduction of strong law . let I give an example of the context in which the Bill sit . I believe that there should be measure to prevent the theft of cat and dog , and I therefore welcome the Pet Abduction Bill , which be introduce in 2023 . it would create offence of dog abduction and cat abduction , and it include power to make similar provision for other pet . although dog and cat be now sentient being under the law , there be no specific offence of pet theft ; because animal fall under the definition of property , the offence be treat in much the same way as the theft of an inanimate object . I find it worry that , while sentencing can take into account the emotional impact on the human victim , the financial worth of the dog or cat be the big factor . in my view , the punishment do not come close to fit the crime or to act as a deterrent . pet theft be not a simple matter of theft of an item , nor should it be treat as such by the law . I know that lose a pet can cause great emotional pain . I declare an interest : I think of how I would feel if our cat at home , Orna , be to be steal . I firmly support the Pet Abduction Bill , as well as measure to improve it — order . I have to impress on hon . member that the Bill under discussion be concern with the legal importing of puppy , kitten and ferret . will the hon . Gentleman please stick to the subject under debate ? thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . have give that contextual example , I will return to the main subject of the debate . I know from my constituent how important it be for all aspect of animal welfare to be address . in my home borough , we be lucky enough to have the annual ealing animal fair , which take place for the 45th time early this month . I be very glad to be able to attend , and I want to thank all those involve , particularly Dr Marion Garnett , for put on such an important event year after year . I know that those at the fair would be among the first to say that the Bill be much need , and also that many other aspect of animal welfare legislation need attention . I be pleased to be play my part today in support the Bill , and I look forward to its make progress as swiftly as possible and become law . I strongly welcome the Bill , and congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on introduce it . by ban the importation of puppy and kitten that be under six month old and that of dog and cat that be mutilate or heavily pregnant , it will improve animal welfare . it will also address the abuse of non - commercial rule that compromise animal treatment and biosecurity . the intention behind the Bill be endorse across the House and by my constituent , and tackle this illicit trade be a manifesto commitment . as a cat owner , I know the joy that pet bring . as my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) say , own a pet become a lot more popular during the pandemic . but why be import pet so popular ? gang promote fashionable breed , buyer be mislead about the animal ' s background , and many buyer be seemingly unaware of the hide risk involve , which often lead to animal abandonment . the RSPCA have report that such abandonment incident be up by nearly 50 % on three year ago . my local RSPCA rehome centre have many pet up for adoption , and I be read my local Lynn News this morning and two cat be feature , Finley and Joshua , who be look for a new home , and there be many dog too . I encourage anyone look for a pet to explore the rehome centre near they ; my cat Hetty be a rescue cat , and I firmly encourage people to do that . we urgently need to introduce the power in this Bill to reduce the number of pet illegally come into the country and to minimise animal suffering . four Paws , the RSPCA , Cats Protection , Dogs Trust and Battersea find that as many as 30 puppy be sell online have be illegally import into the UK . Cats Protection ' s " cat and their stat " survey in 2023 find that 50 , 000 cat have be import . bring in puppy and kitten at such a young age mean that their immune system can not withstand infection . it be time to end this abusive trade . I pay tribute to all the pet charity who campaign long and hard for this legislation and again commend my hon . friend the Member for North Devon for bring the legislation forward today . this Bill be deeply welcome and I particularly support the measure to prevent pet smuggling , although I fail to understand why the Government pull the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill and instead be use precious private member ' bill to pass the same necessary legislation . the puppy trade have become worth up to £ 3 billion in the UK with the sale of up to 2 million puppy annually , and as much as 50 % of the industry be illegal or unlicensed . I also want to speak on the issue of cat and kitten smuggling ; I apologise to my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) but I will not be talk about ferret in this part of the speech . I strongly believe that cat and kitten must be give parity with dog from the outset in any new legislation . cat Protection ' s 2023 report highlight that an estimate 50 , 000 cat acquire in the 12 month precede the survey come from an overseas source . the charity say that it be unclear whether any health and welfare check be do on those cat or what condition they be subject to during travel , mean that some may have arrive in the UK in an extremely poor state of health or carry infectious disease that they could pass on to other cat . many feline also become very stressed during long journey , lead to relate illness such as cystitis . Cats Protection believe there be a heighten risk of kitten smuggling due to the increase popularity of high - value pedigree breed , which can be sell for thousand of pound , and this demand be rise . accord to its report , there have be a significant rise in pure breed and pedigree cat ; 42 % of the cat obtain in the last 12 month be pedigree or purebre , compare with 17 % more than five year ago . high price and increase demand make these cat an attractive target for illegal importation by those wish to make a quick profit . I add at this point , both to Members and to everybody listen , that our rescue cat need home . many have say that I be a she - cat , and I be mother to Stanley , who come from Cat - CHING , a Rotherham and Sheffield charity , and to Mia Cat and Sue from Cats Protection . rescue cat be fantastic pet and they need our support ; owner do not need to spend a fortune on they and they get the support of the charity . let I change the tone and speak about the horrific mutilation of declaw cat . the keep animal Bill include positive step to limit the importation of dog with mutilation include ear cropping , but , concerningly , cat with mutilation be not include in the proposal . the most notable omission be the vile declaw procedure , which be extremely painful and distressing and prevent cat from exhibit normal scratch behaviour . it be basically the equivalent of amputate a human fingertip at the first knuckle , and it be already illegal in the UK . I therefore give credit to the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , as her Bill prohibit the importation of dog and cat who have be mutilate . I strongly support the Bill , as I believe that it will go a long way to protect our beloved dog and cat from pet smuggler look to exploit they for profit . I commend the hon . member for her commitment to that cause . I will speak for only a short time today . let I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on all her campaigning and her championing of this Bill . she have be fantastic all the way through , and the Bill will help we to meet our manifesto commitment to crack down on the illegal smuggling of dog and puppy . I also put on the record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) for all the incredible expertise that he have share over the two year that I have be in this place . like many other colleague present , I have learn a great deal from his veterinary experience . the United Kingdom and this Conservative Government can be proud of our record on animal welfare . we have some of the strong protection in the world . colleague be right to highlight the excellent progress that have be make and , while we have be in government , we have already make microchippe mandatory for dog and cat , help to reunite lost pet with their owner ; protect service animal by introduce Finn ' s law ; and tighten the sale of puppy and kitten with Lucy ' s law . we have also introduce tough sentencing for animal cruelty , an issue that many of my constituent be passionate about . we have ban the use of wild animal in circus , and introduce one of the tough ban in the world on ivory sale . however , we can and must go far . since be elect to this place , strengthen animal welfare protection have be a priority of mine . indeed , I make my maiden speech during the passage of the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 on this issue , which be a priority of mine not only as an animal lover , but because of the great passion that many of my constituent in Old Bexley and Sidcup have for their pet . over the course of my two year in this place , I have receive well over 3 , 000 email from constituent on animal welfare and related issue . that be almost four email every single day . from the range of animal welfare charity that I work with , as well as from the thousand of constituent who continue to contact I , I know that they be increasingly concerned about the emerge market , which involve the importation of heavily pregnant dog and cat , and those that have be mutilate . of course , we would all have like to see the Bill soon , but I be glad that it have the support of the Government , as well as mine . it aim finally to end that barbaric practice and trade . the Bill will rightly ramp up the fight against the cruel puppy smuggling trade and will bring an end to the suffering of the countless dog catch up in it , which often come from eastern european country . since 2014 , Dogs Trust — a brilliant charity that I have meet multiple time — have be do fantastic work to advance the protection of dog in particular , and it have be expose the widespread abuse of the pet travel scheme . the scheme be design for those take their own pet on holiday with they , but instead it have be use as a cover for those who smuggle puppy across border . luckily for many of those poor dog , Dogs Trust have take care of more than 3 , 000 illegally import puppy , which , if they have be sell to unsuspecting member of the public , would have make approximately £ 4 . 5 million for criminal importer . from my own visit and from my work outside this place , I know that Battersea Dogs & Cats Home in London also do fantastic work in this area . my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , who be sit in front of I , talk about the importance of rescue , and we should always try to take a rescue whenever we can . we can all list the many brilliant veterinary group and charity in this area , such as Battersea , Cats Protection , Four Paws , the RSPCA and of course the brilliant Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation . rather than continue to list they all , Mr Deputy Speaker — I know you have a particular interest in this area from your fantastic work over the year — I would instead say thank you to each of they for the wonderful work they continue to do in raise awareness in this place and across the country for those animal who need our protection . whether it be in Old Bexley and Sidcup or North Devon , across the United Kingdom we be a nation of animal lover . I be sure that many of my constituent would agree word for word with my hon . friend the Member for North Devon when she say that pet be family , not property . it be horrific to hear story of puppy be smuggle across the border and the poor condition they have to endure . that be why , on behalf of my constituent in Old Bexley and Sidcup , I welcome the Bill and will continue to support it at every stage of its journey on to the statute book . I congratulate the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on bring the Bill forward and on come up in the private Members ' Bill ballot . that be not easy — it have only happen to I once in 26 year — so she have do well . the hon . Lady have pick an issue that be very important to many member from across the House . I can say for sure that over the year I have be a member — as I say , it be now 26 year — the postbag I have receive , either by letter or more recently by email , text and social medium , have be overwhelmingly dominate by those constituent who write to I about improve animal welfare . I suspect my experience be not dissimilar to that of many other member , and that we all get a big postbag from our constituent raise animal welfare issue . we be indeed a nation of animal lover , so she have do well to select this issue . I be not be unpleasant to she if I say that she seem to have have some help with the drafting . give the issue ' s complication , that be probably a good thing . I be sure the Government have improve on the drafting of the more comprehensive animal welfare Bill that they withdraw , which include some of these issue . I can compliment the hon . Lady on one other thing , before I move on to the substance of the Bill , which be that she be implement a manifesto commitment of her party . that be more than the Government have manage to do so far from their own Front Bench , so she should be congratulate on that too . it be not a usual or easy thing to do . the only issue be whether this Parliament will last long enough for she to get the Bill all the way on to the statute book . obviously , it have to go through the other place and its remain stage here . if the Bill pass Second Reading today , there be a few Bills ahead of it , so there be a bit of a queue in Committee . my advice to she , as somebody who sort of manage to get a private member ' s Bill on to the statute book by force the Government to do it later , be to not stop fuss behind the scene : do not stop press and push they to make sure that if the Bill pass Second Reading , and it look very much as if it will — I thank the right hon . Lady for her kind word , but she clearly do not know I very well ; I never stop push . I be very glad to hear that , because it certainly give she a well chance of make sure the Government do not go soft or slack when it come to do the necessary thing to ensure the Bill end up on the statute book . she would be congratulate by many from across the House if she manage that . obviously , the regulation will have to be write and consult on . the Bill have to go through the Committee and Report stage in this House . there be a concertina effect on when private Members ' Bill Fridays be come up , so she will have to get the Bill through Committee fast . that would be my other little bit of advice : there be a queue of Bills ahead of she that have pass second reading , so she need to keep push in the right direction . the Bill take up some of the provision that be in the more comprehensive Bill that , as I recall , the Government withdraw in 2023 . they have be try to legislate on this issue since the 2019 election , when it be in their manifesto , so I think it be a good thing that the hon . Lady be bring forward these provision . as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) say , there be a little extra detail in this Bill than be apparent in the original legislation . that be also a good thing . it be not correct , as be the modern fashion in legislative drafting , to leave everything to the regulation ; sometimes it be a good idea to have the provision in primary legislation . that might make I a bit old fashioned , but I do think that there be something to be say for it . I congratulate the hon . member for North Devon on get a few more detail on precisely what be go to be do into primary legislation . that hold to the foot of whatever Government be then try to implement the legislation to the fire , and there be something to be say for that . the change in the law that the hon . Lady be seek to make be good in respect of dog and cat , as have be mention by a number of hon . member . currently , the low age limit to import a dog or cat be 15 week . pregnant dog and cat may be import — as the hon . member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) , who have extra knowledge of these thing , mention — until the last 10 % of their pregnancy . up to five dog or cat can be import per person , and the owner can authorise somebody else to travel for they . the change that be be make to those limit can only be entirely good , for the reason that have be make by other member during the course of this debate and that I will not repeat . ferret be include in the short title of the Bill . the hon . member for North Devon be kind enough to respond to I when I intervene on she , say that the reason that ferret have be include be that they can get rabie , so there be something desirable to be say about control the import of ferret . that , for I , be a good enough reason to include they in the short title of the Bill , but I have notice that we do not seem to have have a lot of representation about ferret , or example of the abuse of ferret in the way that we have in respect of dog and cat . perhaps the Minister , when he come to reply , can let we know whether ferret be there purely as a rabies control measure , or whether there be evidence that there be abuse in the importation of ferret ? I do not have a wide knowledge of that , so I would be interested to know whether the issue face ferret be similar to those of dog and cat , or whether the fact that they be in the short title of the Bill be simply to do with disease control . to my mind , that be a good enough reason , but I wonder whether there should be further provision on the safety of ferret that be not set out in the regulation so far . I would be interested to hear what the Minister have to say . I be interested that my right hon . friend be keenly mention ferret at every opportunity that she can in this debate , so let I just put it on record that my brother have a ferret call Oscar . my hon . friend now have that on the record . I do not really know what else to say about that , except that I be sure that Oscar bring her brother great joy . that be what pet do . I be sure there be many other ferret owner who might attest to the same thing . my interest in ferret be purely because they be in the short title of the Bill , yet there do not seem to be any evidence that there be abuse . that be why I keep raise the issue of ferret . I be sure the Minister will be able to enlighten we when he come to reply . the other issue that I particularly want to raise — I have raise it a number of time in my intervention — be that this legislation have be take in part from the old , comprehensive legislation , but there be no provision in the Bill about penalty . it be all very well for we all to object to the cruel and appalling way in which animal have be abuse and treat in great number by those seek to make profit out of their misery , but the only way we can make sure that that cease be by have good , effective enforcement and by ensure that those who seek to profit in this way be make an example of through the court . I know that the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 increase the sentence for animal cruelty from a maximum of six month to five year , but it be not totally apparent to I — the Minister might be able to enlighten we , if he be listen — whether that Act provide the enforcement and penalty regime for this Bill . will breach of this legislation be punish through the provision of that Act , or be that to be do by some other regime of punishment and penalty somewhere else ? obviously , in a comprehensive Bill the penalty would probably be include with all the provision . give that the Government , with the help of the hon . member for North Devon , have choose to slice and dice their approach to animal welfare legislation and bring forward separate Bills , I hope the Minister will be able to explain where the penalty be write and what they will be . be they be increase ? can they be increase by regulation ? what penalty and punishment might he expect those who fall foul of this improve legislation to meet if they continue in their nefarious activity ? that bring I to the other point I wish to raise , which be about enforcement . I have raise this in a number of intervention during the debate , and the hon . member for Penrith and the Border have something to say about it too . have the law on the statute book be a good first step , but it do not stop abuse of the law — it be enforcement that do that . so will the hon . member for North Devon or the Minister say something about enforcement ? since the 2021 Act increase the maximum penalty for animal abuse , have the number of prosecution increase ? have people go to jail ? have they go to jail for more than six month , which be the previous maximum term ? this be a lucrative trade and those who smuggle puppy can make hundred of thousand of pound , so the enforcement , penalty and punishment regime need to match the scale of that potential profit . if it do not , the law will sit there and not work in the way in which its supporter in this House , who come from across the Chamber , wish it to work . I welcome the Bill very much . I congratulate the hon . Lady on choose it , when she fortuitously come up in the ballot in the way in which she do . I hope that the Minister will be able to reassure its supporter from around the Chamber — very many of we have speak in support today — about precisely what will happen on enforcement and what the penalty and punishment regime will be . it be all very well get the law right , but if we do not then enforce it by catch the perpetrator and pursue they through the law to the maximum available opportunity , these lucrative trade will continue and we will still have problem with animal welfare in this country . that have be say , let I finish by congratulate the hon . Lady on bring forward this piece of legislation . she say she be tenacious and she will have to be to get all this do before the Prime Minister call a general election . I know that she will stick at it , and let we hope that we will then be able to get this Bill on to the statute book and do some of the good that it purport to want to do . this will work only if the Government can reassure we that they be go to get on with the regulation and get this work as soon as possible . they have spend the whole of this Parliament say that they be go to do this without manage to do it yet . perhaps , at the end of this Parliament , the Minister will be able to stand up and say that he actually manage to do this and get it right to where it need to be , and perhaps he will be able to reassure we about enforcement and punishment . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) for introduce the Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill as her private Member ' s Bill , and congratulate she on her very good speech . I have have an incredible number of email regard the Bill , which show the strength of feeling on the topic . the deep level of concern around the welfare of pet animal bring into the UK be show in a YouGov poll from 2023 , which reveal that 83 % of the public think that the Government should crack down on puppy smuggling . as conservative , we care deeply for our environment and for animal welfare . we be a nation of pet lover . our pet be part of our family , stop loneliness and get people out of the house , in the case of dog owner . in the spirit of the day , may I mention some of my pet ? my dog be Marcus , an english bull terrier , and Toby , an english pointer ; my cat be Sulekha , a Siamese , and Cassio and Othello , who be very nice english moggie . my cat and dog come from home that could no long keep they , so I have be lucky enough to know where they come from . however , not every animal have have the same background , which be why I be so pleased that this Bill have be present . end the smuggling of dog , puppy , cat and ferret be an important part of the 2019 conservative manifesto on animal welfare commitment , and the Bill will fill the gap in current legislation that pet smuggler be abuse . we know that for smuggler , this illegal business model be highly lucrative . it be estimate to be worth around £ 150 million in 2021 , with the price of dog range from £ 500 to £ 7 , 000 . in 2021 , 843 cat and dog be seize at the port of Dover , with 500 seize in 2023 , and find to be non - compliant with import requirement . puppy farm in place such as Romania , Hungary and Poland breed dog and separate they from their mother while too young to travel , mean their immune system can not withstand infection . smuggler be disguise the commercial movement of pet as non - commercial to avoid the more stringent requirement with a pet passport . the pet travel scheme be be abuse . pet that be smuggle be unlikely to have have any veterinarian input , include rabie vaccination and parasite treatment necessary for legal entry to the UK , make these poor animal a health risk for human and other pet . the criminal then deceive unsuspecting buyer , as we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) , and lead they to believe they be acquire a pet from a professional breeder by present the mother together with their offspring . the mother may have be bring in heavily pregnant . I be pleased that the Bill will establish regulation raise the minimum age of import dog and cat — presumably ferret , too , although I be not quite sure about that one — to six month , and ban the import of dog and cat that be more than 42 day pregnant or mutilate . the Bill will amend for England , Scotland and Wales EU rule assimilate into UK law to limit the number of cat and dog import to five per vehicle , or three per foot passenger . pet be regard as family member , and it be time to protect they as such . the step propose in the animal welfare Bill on the movement of pet across border into Britain be desperately need . the Bill provide a clear pathway to end the suffering of these innocent animal . the cruel business of pet smuggling can not be allow to continue any long . the Bill be our chance to fulfil our 2019 commitment , implement a future where pet be safely and ethically bring into the UK . as an animal lover , I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Devon for raise this issue of great importance . I know that her persistence will ensure that the Bill go into law very shortly . I be fully supportive of the Bill , and I look forward to see it proceed through this House . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) for bring forward such an important Bill . I rise to speak not just on behalf of my constituent in Norfolk , who be huge animal lover , but because I have always try to champion animal welfare issue and speak on these matter each and every time they have come to the House . I have personally invest a lot of time and care in to this area , particularly by look after rescue animal my whole life . I can not therefore go away from this Chamber without mention my beloved pet : my rescue cat , Clapton , who sadly pass last month ; our rescue guinea pig , Pickle , which my child would never forgive I for not mention ; and the rescue chicken , which we save from a battery farm and give a good life . my hon . friend have prompt I to mention that I have three rescue chicken — Honey , Rosie and Lola — and they continue to lay for another three year after we get they . I commend he for his effort to save chicken . I say " well do " to my hon . friend , too , for his effort to rescue chicken and for give they that good laying — they can often lay for many year afterwards . we in this place should be proud about our collective effort to lead the world in raise animal welfare standard . we be do that again today . cat be very important to I . as I mention , my family lose our beloved rescue cat , Clapton , to cancer last month . the cancer in his mouth mean that he be unable to eat , so he become very thin and unfortunately it be time to say goodbye . I use to take he to the vet ' s down the road . every time Clapton Baker be call into the room , it get a slight giggle from constituent who know and recognise I . as my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) say , our pet be love forever . my child certainly love Clapton . there will be another rock star - name rescue cat in my family one day . we just need to decide whether it will be a Meat Loaf Baker , a Mercury Baker , a Springsteen Baker or even a Jagger Baker — that be one of my favourite . this be an important debate . during the pandemic , North Norfolk see a huge spike in pet theft , particularly of dog . my area be well know for its elderly demographic and 52 mile of coastline , and dog be everywhere . it be almost unheard of to be retire in North Norfolk without a pet dog . theft be a huge problem during the pandemic . I be proud to be a part of the pet theft taskforce . I will keep my remark relatively short . the hon . member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) speak early — quite a few hour ago now — about how not many people in the Chamber have have much to do with ferret in their previous life . I will disappoint you , Madam Deputy Speaker , because , country bumpkin that I be , I keep ferret 30 year ago with a friend of . we do our civic duty . school allow we to keep some ferret behind the garage , and every lunch time , we would go out to the hospital ground next door and catch the rabbit that be ruin the hospital lawn and ground . we be entrepreneurial : the local butcher pay we 50p per rabbit , and £ 1 for a buck . the only reason we have to stop our entrepreneurial hobby be that the teacher would complain that we smell so bad . equally , my parent say , " look , Duncan , you need to give up this hobby . you smell so terrible . " ferret , as member might know , do not smell particularly good . there be a serious point to today ' s debate . it be awful that , in the 21st century , puppy and heavily pregnant dog endure such terrible long journey , as well as mutilation such as cropped ear . declaw cat be not only abhorrent and painful , but take from they something that be part of their dna — get up in the morning and scratch their scratch post . until only a couple of week ago , we still have Clapton ' s scratch post in the corner of the kitchen . he be no long with we , but it would have be absolutely appalling to have his claw remove , prevent his natural instinct . all credit should go to my hon . friend the Member for North Devon for introduce the Bill — this be her day . she have be widely praise by many institution , include the RSPCA . for what she have do , I thank she and say , " well do . " I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on secure this debate and introduce this Bill on animal welfare . I will keep my speech short because I know the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) would like to get to her Bill , and other — certainly Government Members — would like to give my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) time for her important Bill . she also get a place on the ballot , but Labour Members be keen to talk out that Bill because they have no interest in safeguard child against extreme trans ideology and be frit about any debate on that issue . it be vital that we push our legislation far to close the gap that allow for the harm and exploitation of dog , cat and ferret . the Government have already take essential step to protect our beloved animal . it be an offence under the Animal Welfare Act 2006 to crop a dog ' s ear , and since 2021 anyone convict of that offence may receive a prison sentence of up to five year and / or an unlimited fine . the puppy pilot scheme set up in 2015 , and massively pioneer by the Dogs Trust , have allow for the rescue of more than 3 , 100 illegally import puppy . furthermore , the introduction of Lucy ' s law in 2020 mean that any new puppy or kitten in England must be buy directly from a breeder or adopt from a rescue centre . the action plan for animal welfare be introduce in 2021 with the goal of tackle puppy smuggling through change to import rule , introduce compulsory microchipping for cat , crack down on pet theft through a new Government taskforce and ban remote control training e - collar . like I , a significant number of my constituent care deeply about animal welfare , and have contact I to express their enormous support for this Bill . I want to highlight the dedicated work of my constituent Jayne Band on Finn ' s law and Finn ' s law part 2 , and her consistent campaigning for animal right . Finn ' s law be pass in 2019 , and Finn ' s law part 2 — the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 — be pass in June 2021 . my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) secure that legislation as a private Member ' s Bill , and I happily support it . those be all necessary step to help protect the life of domesticate animal . through this Bill , I also hope to see the protection extend to import and smuggled animal . individual who mutilate animal and illegally smuggle they into this country lack compassion and be very bad people . improvement must be make to stop innocent animal endure illegal and unnecessary journey and procedure . we must also take effort to ensure those criminal activity do not go unpunished . this Bill , my hon . friend the Member for North Devon and these animal deserve our support . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) on bring forward this important private Member ' s Bill . as we have hear from member across the House , it be overdue . it be extremely welcome and it have cross - party support . I congratulate Opposition colleague who have participate . my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) say that we rarely talk about ferret in this House , and that be true . my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) remind we — or tell we for the first time if we do not know — that 2 April be National Ferret Day . I suspect not many of we know that , and I hope she will get the ferret she seem to have set her heart on . my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) ask very pertinent question of the Minister , who will be respond shortly , about the risk of rabie from illegally import ferret and the great threat to biosecurity in this country , which we should all be very concerned about . my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) talk about the absolute horror of ear cropping — a mutilation that be often carry out without any anaesthetic at all , to the torment of the animal . my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) talk about the cruelty of illegal puppy farming . my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon Central ( Sarah Jones ) , talk about how , when go out to buy a new family pet , it can be difficult for family to identify a legitimate breeder , and how many people be concerned because that journey be so difficult . family do not want to support the illegal importation and breeding of animal , but it be far too difficult to find out which animal have be breed legitimately and which have be subject to abuse , include illegal breeding . my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) raise his constituent ' concern about the Government drop the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill after two year of development , and he urge the Government to do more to focus on animal welfare in the time remain before the general election , whenever it come . my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) talk about the importance of rescue cat . we hear some fine speech from Conservative Members , too . I will leave it to the Minister to go through they in detail , but the hon . member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) make an outstanding , incredibly persuasive speech , with insight clearly draw from his great professional experience . I successfully introduce a private member ' s Bill in 2018 , so I know very well the peril and pitfall of steer such legislation through Parliament , and I again pay tribute to the hon . member for North Devon for her success in build such widespread support , as be clear from this debate , for the important measure she aim to bring into law . my private Member ' s Bill , which become the Mental Health Units ( Use of Force ) Act 2018 , also win support on both side of the House , but six year later , very disappointingly , it have still not be bring fully into force . I hear what the hon . Lady say about the need to keep push and , if her Bill progress , I urge she to keep push . I wish she more success than I have have with the current Minister for mental health , the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , who do not seem interested in carry out the wish of this House , as express in the unanimous passage of my important Bill . other Health Ministers have take much more interest and have help to push the legislation forward , so I hope she will reflect on why she have not follow the will of this House , as express in a free and democratic vote , by ensure that the law come fully into force as soon as possible . animal welfare be of the high concern to the british public , as we have hear from both side of the House . I make it clear that the opposition be pleased to support the Bill . we believe its measure be long overdue , and it have be very interesting to hear the personal testimony of member on both side of the House . member have speak of their experience of own and buy pet , and of want to make sure that the animal they buy have be well treat and properly breed . other Members have mention their pet , and it would be remiss of I not to mention mine . I have a rescue cat call Tigger , who we sadly lose after 18 year in 2010 . I have more recently have two rescue cat , Smudge and Pixie . we sadly lose Smudge last year to kidney disease , but the House will be pleased to hear that Pixie be still alive and well . they both achieve a modicum of fame when I enter they into the Battersea Dogs & Cats Home competition to elect the " Purr Minister " , become the first cat to be jointly elect . this be a matter of great pride to our family , although not so much to my partner , who be now the only member of our household never to have be elect to anything . our ownership of companion pet give we an insight into how pet can be an important part of a family . we have hear about the horrible abuse of declaw , cropped ear and dock tail . that cruelty be bring home all the more because so many of we have experience own and love a companion pet ourselves , as have many member of the great british public , which be one of the reason why people be so concerned about these issue . Puppy and kitten smuggling be an absolutely horrific abuse and legislation be require to prevent it from happen . that be why we be so pleased the hon . member for North Devon have bring forward her private Member ' s Bill today . crack down on the illegal smuggling of dog and puppy be a commitment that appear in the 2019 conservative party manifesto . as my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield say , it be hugely regrettable that the Government do not in the end fully pursue their own legislation — government legislation — to meet that commitment . I fully understand , and I be sure the Minister will repeat this when he be on his foot , that they be support the private Member ' s Bill today , but those of we familiar with Friday sitting and private Members ' bill know how uncertain that route can be . it be all too easy for a lone Member who be hostile to the propose legislation to use procedural tactic to block the Bill from proceed , even in circumstance where the vast majority of Members be fully in support of it . my private Member ' s Bill be talk out by a Conservative Member , for instance , despite have almost universal cross - party support . I be immensely grateful to Government whip who later find time for it to come back , but despite that strong support from the Government , the legislation have still not be fully commence . so I repeat that there be real concern about whether and how the Government pursue private Member ' s Bills even when they be enact , which be why we would have prefer to see this Bill bring through as Government legislation rather than be subject to the vagary of Friday sitting and private Members ' Bills . my hon . friend be right to raise the procedural issue of the private Member ' s Bill process be a threat to a Bill get all the way through . do he agree that because many Bills have already get through second reading in this session , there be go to be a pile up in Committee which will make it difficult to get this Bill through Committee in time to get it back for the Fridays that give priority to Report and remain stage ? that be also a concern , be it not ? I be grateful for that intervention . of course my right hon . friend have experience herself of pursue a private member ' s Bill through the House , and she be absolutely right . we have over 30 private member ' Bills on the agenda just today , so it do look like we be go to have a big backlog , and we certainly need the Government to be prioritise Bills they want to support , and I hope we will hear from the Minister today that this Bill will secure Government support and will be a priority for get Royal Assent and get on to the statute book . the Bill before we today start out as part of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill introduce by the Government in 2021 . it contain measure to crack down on puppy and kitten smuggling but , regrettably and incomprehensibly to many campaigner — they voice this articulately themselves — the Government abandon that Bill . it be hard to understand why they do that give the strong public support for the measure contain and the fact that the Government control legislation as it move through this House — they control the business of this House . the full Bill be a golden opportunity to improve the health and welfare of million of animal . the proposal have very wide public support , and animal welfare charity have work hard to help shape the Bill before the Government regrettably abandon it . member on both side of the House and many of our constituent — I be sure we have all have letter about this ; I be not unique in this House in have have hundred of email about the Government abandon the keep animal Bill — deeply regret that the Government choose to ditch such a significant and important piece of legislation . as a result of that decision , countless animal have suffer needless pain and distress through the unscrupulous practice of puppy and kitten smuggling and through the export of live animal for fatten and slaughter in country where animal welfare standard be far low than in this country . as have be express many time this morning , there be real gratitude to the hon . member for North Devon for her effort to bring back important measure that be part of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , include those on puppy and kitten smuggling . the provision that have be bring back today be important because there have recently be a shocking — indeed , a sicken — increase in the number of animal import into the United Kingdom , with pitifully little attention pay to their welfare , either during transportation or , often , in how and where they be breed . the horrific reality be that the puppy trade have become a multimillion - pound transnational industry base on the abuse of living , sentient creature and on the deception of well - mean individual who want to buy a family pet . two million puppy be sell every year in the UK alone . it be a trade with a total value of £ 3 billion . Battersea Dogs & Cats Home estimate that up to 50 % of that trade be either illegal or unlicensed and take place outside any oversight from regulation or enforcement . half the animal involve originate outside the United Kingdom , often in completely unknown circumstance , with all the risk that that imply for low standard of animal welfare and animal health . it be less well know that criminal who be involve in the illegal trade in puppy be often also engage in other form of cross - border crime . that include drug dealing , money laundering and even people traffic . the European Union ' s " strategy to tackle organised Crime " recognise the illegal trade in companion animal in Europe as an ongoing concern with severe implication for human and animal welfare . my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester point out that the Government ' s decision to abandon the keep animal Bill delay the much - need clampdown on this vile and illegal trade . the delay have leave criminal feel emboldened during the intervene period . a recent report publish by the charity Four Paws on the illegal puppy trade in the United Kingdom find that more than 30 % of import puppy be from Romania alone . that be simply unacceptable . how can it be that criminal have be able to bring so many vulnerable animal into this country from condition over which there be little , if any , welfare or health supervision or control ? do my hon . friend agree that crack down , with proper enforcement , and have tough penalty that be enforce be a way of not only tackle this vile trade , but get the additional benefit of take some serious criminal off our street ? my right hon . friend make an important point . indeed , the prosecution and punishment of those responsible for any crime , let alone these particular vile and heinous crime , be essential to deter other who want to profit from the same exploitation of animal and people that we see in this vile trade in puppy and kitten smuggling . nobody want to see that , but we could have have more focus on this , and sanction , have the Government pursue the original legislation , rather than delay it and then support it come back — in part at least — as a private Member ' s Bill . the circumstance in which animal be breed be also change . a grow number of puppy be breed not only in vast , industrial - scale puppy farm , but in shed , repurpose smallholding , urban tower block and warehouse . we have see image of these poor , desperate creature tie up , often leave shiver in the freezing cold , in filthy cage , cover in their own excrement , and sometimes reduce to eat their own excrement . it be distress beyond word to see any of these image and video , so thank goodness we have this Bill before we today . but what a cry shame it be that the Government have do so little about this vile trade until now and then abandon the original legislation that could have bring in measure far soon to save countless defenceless animal from abuse by the most unscrupulous trader and criminal gang . the RSPCA be the world ' s old and large animal welfare charity , found here in England in 1824 . it have be at the forefront of raise public awareness and concern about puppy smuggling . I pay tribute to the RSPCA for its many year of campaign on this and so many other animal welfare issue . the RSPCA have highlight that many dog smuggle into this country to be sell on the underground puppy market have long - term health problem , as well as behavioural issue because of their breeding and negative experience early in life . we be talk about puppy like Dobby , a 19 - month - old french bulldog who be take in by the RSPCA ' s Mount Noddy animal centre in West Sussex . dobby , who have be traffic into the UK from Lithuania , be plague with severe and painful health problem , which eventually require significant surgery . the RSPCA point out that import sick puppy with zoonotic disease into the UK not only pose a risk to public health , but can lead to the very sad outcome of the animal need to be euthanise after endure a short , wretched life of pain and suffering . what about mutilation , which have be by hon . member across the Chamber ? Mutilation include horrific act of cruelty , such as tail docking , ear cropping and the declawing of cat . ear cropping have be illegal for over 20 year in England and Wales — thank goodness — but the RSPCA report a 1 , 243 % increase in incident of ear crop in dog between 2015 and 2021 . that be such a staggering figure it be worth repeat — a 1 , 243 % increase in incident of ear crop in dog . how despicable ! no wonder so many animal right campaign group have be plead with the Government for so many year to bring forward measure to curb this cruel trade . the RSPCA tell we that the current loophole in the law that permit the importing of dog with cropped ear offer a defence in court for those responsible for illegal ear cropping here in the United Kingdom . that help they to avoid prosecution for abuse of dog that be make illegal in the Animal Welfare Act 2006 . dog lover across the United Kingdom be desperate for this horrific practice to be stop once and for all . Kitten smuggling raise further welfare concern that I suspect will distress member across the House . Cats Protection be the UK ' s large cat welfare charity . it provide administrative support to the all - party parliamentary group on cat , which I be proud to co - chair for many year before I be appoint to the shadow Cabinet by my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition . the charity have produce a most helpful briefing paper on the Bill before we . it note that its 2023 survey find that 3 % of cat purchase in the United Kingdom over the previous 12 month have be source from abroad . we have no idea what condition those cat or kitten be subject to during travel , but the long journey they be force to endure can cause they significant pain , fear and distress . that be not something anyone would wish to impose on a beloved family pet , or indeed on any animal , where it can be avoid . the Bill be an important opportunity to prevent so much needless suffering . the Bill will crack down on puppy and kitten smuggling by close loophole in the law that have be mercilessly exploit by dishonest and criminal commercial trader . the Bill reduce the number of animal that may enter Great Britain in a motor vehicle during a single non - commercial journey to five . that will help stop smuggler who pretend large cargo of animal be their own pet , when in reality they be intend for sale in this country . for similar reason , the Bill reduce the number of animal that can be bring into the country by mean other than a motor vehicle to just three . that will be of huge benefit in reduce the level of kitten and puppy smuggling into the United Kingdom . the RSCPA have find criminal gang use route like this to smuggle animal into the country . the gang then hire short - let property , such as Airbnbs , to trick buyer into believe their puppy or kitten come from a good home and have be well care for by the animal ' s mother . the animal ' s new owner be incredibly distressed when they find out that their new pet may have a serious illness , an infection or behavioural problem cause by be remove from its mother far too young . it can even cost the new owner thousand of pound in vet bill as they try to care for their animal . of course , in many case , the animal die . on that point , I have have a constituent get in touch with I because they go to get a dog — they think it be a legitimate one — but when they get it home they find it have many complication . however , the child have already bond with it , so they end up have to take out a loan to cover all the vet ' fee . surely more need to be do to prosecute those people who be cause so much cost to the pet owner , who be innocent victim . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her intervention . through that example , she make the most compelling case for why the Bill be necessary and why it should be bring in as soon as possible . family who go out to buy a family pet be aghast , appal and distressed when they get home and find out that that animal be not the healthy , well care - for pet they think they be buy , but have be subject to abuse . the animal may have behavioural or health problem that cost they thousand of pound . it be simply unfair . the Bill give the authority in different part of the United Kingdom — include those with devolved government — the power to prohibit or restrict the transport of dog , cat or ferret into the UK for the purpose of promote the welfare of the import animal , since that , too , have often be use as cover for the illegal importation of ill - treat or sick animal for sale as pet . the Bill require regulation to be make cover England , Scotland and Wales to prohibit the importing of dog or cat that be below the age of six month , be more than 42 day pregnant , or have be mutilate through declaw , ear cropping , tail docking or other such method . these be extremely important measure that will give a significant boost to animal welfare . there have be a huge increase in the importation of heavily pregnant dog and cat , which have often be steal from their love owner in continental Europe and smuggle into the UK in the most appalling condition . the criminal gang ' intention be to sell the puppy or kitten as quickly as possible after they be bear . they do not care that the animal may have be make sick by the condition in which they be transport , or even if the animal be bear prematurely as a result of trauma inflict on the mother . it be purely and simply a criminal money - make operation that need to be stop as quickly as possible . I be one of the most passionate people about animal welfare in this place , and it be lovely to see some new convert on the Labour Benches discuss animal welfare — [ interruption . ] and on the Labour Front Bench . however , I would also be interested to hear the hon . Gentleman ' s thought on Labour ' s determination to prevent single - sex space be discuss today , because that issue be also important to my constituent . I be very disappointed indeed that the hon . Member have attempt to politicise an important point . we be talk about the welfare of animal . order . I be afraid that there be a lot of noise , so I do not hear exactly what the hon . Lady say , but , for the sake of clarity , we be discuss this Bill and only this Bill . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . Labour member consider animal welfare to be important , and it be important that the opposition can make these point on the record so that we can influence the Bill and , if possible , strengthen it . we think that the Government have be slow to the point of negligence in bring forward these proposal that will ensure the welfare of animal . I welcome these provision , but few such measure have be introduce in recent year . do my hon . friend agree that , if the Bill be to be a success , it be important that there be enforcement and punishment measure ? will he press the Minister , as I do , to be clear in his response about what those be and how they will back up the measure in the Bill to ensure that we put a stop to these evil trade ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for make those point . I can see that the Minister be listen carefully to what she have to say , as I be . I look forward to his response . few measure introduce in recent year have as many parallel benefit for animal welfare , human being and wide socioeconomic stability as this Bill . the third - party ban introduce in 2021 seek to address many animal welfare concern about domestic breeding through tight licensing obligation on breeder and a ban on third - party sale . however , it be full of loophole , which allow unscrupulous breeder to continue their activity with far too little change . the law prove so weak that not a single prosecution have take place under it , and fresh legislation be urgently need to close those loophole and bring that abusive trade to an end . if the United Kingdom be to maintain its position as a world leader in animal welfare , in the face of emerge threat and concern , and in line with the wish of the british public , this Bill must become law as quickly as possible . puppy smuggling be a despicable criminal activity , which cause suffering to animal and heartache and financial cost to their owner . it help to fund organise criminal enterprise , which exploit human being as well as animal , and present a significant threat of disease transmission , as my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood point out . labour be proud to support the Bill as it progress through this House , and we will seek to make it strong , just as we do with the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill before the Government abandon it . it be of course regrettable that the Government have take so long to act on these issue , and while I have congratulate the hon . member for North Devon on her private Member ' s Bill , it be disappointing that the Government choose not to include the measure in a Government Bill , which might have prove a more secure way of ensure that the legislation be pass swiftly and intact . other animal welfare measure be be present to this House as private member ' Bills , instead of as government legislation . the Pet Abduction Bill , introduce in December last year , be another example , and we should not forget about all the other animal welfare commitment make by this government that appear to have disappear into thin air . do my hon . friend agree with I about the mess that we have make of the XL Bully dog process , where we have end up ban breed of dog , rather than actually regulate — order . the hon . Gentleman have not be here all morning , so perhaps he have not pick up that the Bill be narrow , and it do not include the subject that he have just raise . in this wind - up speech , it be necessary that we stick completely to the Bill . I know that he will understand . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . I think that he have make his point . look at animal welfare , what about the Government ' s promise to protect our hard - work farmer from low - welfare import produce use method that would be illegal if they be use here in the United Kingdom ? the Government can not claim to be interested in animal welfare if they sign trade deal that permit low welfare standard for animal outside this country . it be not fair on the livestock involve , and it be certainly not fair on UK producer and british farmer . simply put , the Government be wrong to ignore the interest of farmer , consumer ’ expectation of high animal welfare standard and the wellbeing of the affected animal in the decision that they have take . similarly , many campaigner be ask what have happen to the propose consultation on ban cage for farm animal . that be promise by the Government nearly three year ago in their action plan for animal welfare back in May 2021 , but there have be no consultation and no ban . member want to know why not . we be promise action on import of fur and foie gra . the action plan for animal state that the Government be commit to build a — order . when the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) intervene on the shadow Minister , I explain that we must stick to the narrow confine of this Bill . my ruling apply to the hon . Gentleman , so it obviously apply to the shadow Minister as well . I be very grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be merely counter the claim make by member on the Government Benches that the Government have be promote animal welfare , when in fact they have be do the opposite . I be merely put forward the opposition ' s case in response to the point that they have be able to make . the measure in this private Member ' s Bill be originally include in the manifesto on which the conservative party be elect , and it do the reputation of politician across this House no good at all if a Government , once elect , simply ignore their manifesto . my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) point out how proud he be that , when Labour be last in government , we implement landmark animal welfare legislation , include ban cosmetic testing on animal , stop fur farming and end hunting with dog . that be a proud track record on animal welfare , but the work have to continue , because there be still so much more to do . the measure in the private Member ' s Bill before we be part of that . if our party earn the trust of the british people at the next general election , we will bring forward further and comprehensive legislation to strengthen animal welfare and animal right . in the meantime , we be proud to stand alongside the hon . member for North Devon and the proposal that she have put before we today in her private Member ' s Bill . they be sensible , humane and practical , and they deserve the full support of every Member right across this House . may I first congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) and thank she for bring forward this important Bill for Parliament ? I hope that member from across the House will agree that the UK have some of the high welfare standard anywhere in the world , and that we have a proud history of be at the forefront of protect animal . I be confident that member of all party will agree that animal have be of great support to individual and family , particularly during covid - 19 , when my pet be certainly of great support to I . pet often help to keep people sane when they be under pressure in their everyday pursuit , so it would be remiss of I not to put on the record the name of my three dog , Tessa , Barney and Maisie , and the name of my cat , Parsnip . there have be a proud tradition this morning of mention various pet , include : Harry , George , Henry , Bruce , Snowy , Maisie , Scamp , Becky 1 , Becky 2 , Tiny , Tilly , Pippin , Kenneth , Roger , Poppy , Juno , Lucky , Lulu , Brooke , Lucy , Marcus and Toby , who be the dog ; and not forget Perdita , Nala , Colin , who be sadly no long with we , Frank , two Smudges , Attlee , Orna , Hetty , Stanley , Mia Cat , Sue , Sulekha , Cassio , Othello , Clapton , Tigger , who be sadly no long with we , and Pixie , who be the cat . early , I omit the name of my own dog , which I would like to put on the record : Clemmie , Peppy and Ebony . as we all know , Clemmie come third in the Westminster dog of the year show in 2022 . my hon . friend have correct the record . there be two ferret mention , one of which have pass away : Roulette and Oscar . of course , the House will want to advise my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) as he think about name his next cat after a rock star ; I put it to he that the name Chesney be not on his list . over the year , the number of owner travel with their pet have increase significantly , with the number of non - commercial pet movement into the UK rise from approximately 100 , 000 in 2011 to over 320 , 000 in 2023 . the number of dog , cat and ferret import under the commercial rule have also increase significantly in recent year . in 2016 , more than 37 , 000 cat , dog and ferret be import into the UK , but by 2023 the figure have rise to 44 , 000 , the vast majority of which be dog . alongside that growth in genuine pet movement , there be an increase in the number of unscrupulous people who be abuse the pet travel system to import dog and cat illegally . the Government take the issue of puppy smuggling and other illegal import and low - welfare movement of pet very seriously , because it be an abhorrent trade that cause suffer to animal . measure to tackle puppy smuggling be originally include in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , but in May 2023 the Government decide to withdraw that Bill because its scope have be extend beyond the original manifesto commitment and the action plan for animal welfare . at that time , we commit ourselves to ensure that all the measure in the Bill would be deliver through other mean , and I be therefore pleased to announce that the Government will fully support this Bill today . I be also delighted to say that this be the last legislative measure within the keep animal Bill to be bring forward , fulfil the promise make when it be withdraw less than a year ago . this Bill will go far than the keep animal Bill . it will crack down on pet smuggling by close loophole in the current pet travel rule . it will reduce the number of dog , cat and ferret that can enter Great Britain under the non - commercial pet travel rule from five per person to five per vehicle and three per foot or air passenger . that will lead to a significant decrease in the volume of animal with which one person can travel , and will also help to prevent deceitful trader from cram their van with ten of dog . I hesitate to say " ferret " again , but the Minister may recall that I ask he whether there be an issue of abuse with ferret , of the same kind that we see with dog and cat . this might be an opportune moment for he to tell the House about that . I be about to come to this point , to try to satisfy the hon . Lady ' s curiosity . I be tempt to say that ferret be include purely because of the love for they express by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Banbury ( Victoria Prentis ) , but the honest truth be that they be include simply because they be at risk of carry rabie . the Bill will also ensure that the movement of dog , cat and ferret into Great Britain must be link with the movement of the owner to fall under the non - commercial pet travel rule . to move under the pet travel rule , the pet and its owner must travel within five day of each other . the Bill will make it more difficult and less profitable for trader to bring dog , cat and ferret fraudulently into Great Britain for sale under the guise of owner travel with their pet . it will also provide further power to tackle the problem of low - welfare import of dog , cat and ferret into the United Kingdom , and will ensure that those power will be use to ban the bringing into Great Britain of puppy and kitten under six month old , and dog and cat that be heavily pregnant or mutilate . introduce these measure through secondary legislation allow the Government time to work with industry , enforcement body and stakeholder to develop robust measure with appropriate exemption that can be enforce effectively . the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) make a number of point about that . the Government be commit to deliver the secondary legislation as soon as possible follow Royal Assent , but I hope the right hon . Lady will be assure that , as introduce by this Government , the maximum sentence for abuse of animal have rise to five year in prison , which be a huge deterrent for those who would abuse animal . those work in Border Force and our port — champion regularly by my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) — will do all they can to stop those import and ensure that we be in the right place . let I thank my hon . friend the Member from North Devon again for introduce this important Bill . I look forward to see it progress through its remain stage in this House and the other place . I thank the Minister and my right hon . and hon . friend who have speak today . I also thank my team for all the work that they have put in behind the scene to get to this point today , include Tara Benniman , Emily Gordon and Alice Richards , who be on maternity leave , watch at home with baby Luke and cat Beany . I also remind member that Pixie the one - eyed spaniel and Bruce the french bulldog will be available for medium engagement in W3 at the end of today ' s sit . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Public Procurement ( british Goods and Services ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be delighted to bring this important but focus Bill to the House . it would make minor amendment to both the Public Services ( Social Value ) Act 2012 and the Procurement Act 2023 to encourage great uptake of british product in UK Government contract . the Bill aim to increase transparency and raise the importance of the origin of good and service , animal welfare standard and environmental impact , and the standard of employment in procurement decision . it achieve this by require the contracting body to publish its datum , demonstrate how these area be meet in the contract award . in 2014 , my ten - minute rule Bill on publish the gender pay gap for organisation employ more than 250 staff make a similar obligation . first block , then adopt by the Government , it have revolutionise transparency and equality within those business . I hope that the Government will be similarly pragmatic when it come to this Bill and give it a safe passage . every year , the UK Government spend more than £ 300 billion on public procurement , which account for almost a third of all public expenditure . however , despite this huge figure , the Spend Network ' s analysis find that big corporation win 90 % of the contract that be deem suitable for small and medium - sized business . as a result , sme be miss out on around £ 30 billion - worth of public contract annually . that be £ 30 billion that could be go to british business . sme be the beat heart of our economy , account for 99 % of business in the UK and 61 % of employment , which equate to 16 . 7 million job . it be therefore shocking that they be consistently miss out on so many suitable public procurement contract . in addition , a worrying number of contract be award to foreign supplier . research from Tussell find that in 2020 alone the public sector spend £ 18 billion with overseas supplier rather than support their UK counterpart . the Public Accounts Committee ' s report , " competition in public procurement " publish in December , conclude that the Government " have not demonstrate that it have consistently use its purchasing power to support local and national policy and objective , or to drive healthy and competitive market , include buy from sme . " it also find that the Government have " not be fully capture datum on procurement , much less use analytic from collect datum to draw insight on how competition in public procurement be operate within government and give context to purchasing decision . " that have to change , and my Bill can do that . in its report " Public Sector Procurement of Food " from April 2021 , the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee rightly state that public procurement " have the potential to create significant business and growth opportunity through increase participation for small and medium - sized enterprise " — as well as — " improve the public sector ' s access to sme ' creativity and innovation " . however , crucially , it note that sme have long face difficulty in access public procurement opportunity . the hon . Lady make a very good case , and I think she know that the Government have quite a lot of common ground with her policy intent . she may know that official in the Cabinet Office be prepare for a new national procurement policy statement to set out the Government ' s strategic priority . may I offer she and her task group , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , in relation to food , an opportunity to meet official and , if necessary , the Minister ? I would be very grateful if she take up that opportunity , because we would like her expertise and that of the group . as we have only recently legislate , it be difficult for the Government to support her Bill , so I hope she will take up the offer of that meeting . the Minister , as ever , be try to find a solution which benefit we both — that be what I be try to do with the Bill — so I absolutely take up his offer and thank he for it . I will talk more about the work group at the end , but I have bring together a group of industry professional . we all want to see british business get a fair slice of the £ 300 billion pie , because we want our business to flourish , so I thank he for that offer . I have one more Select Committee report , this time from the Defence Committee in July 2023 , which simply state that the UK defence procurement system be " broke — and it ' s time to fix it " . I welcome the Minister ' s offer . to tackle these long - recognise issue within the UK Government procurement system , my Bill aim to : back british business for public contract ; champion the UK ' s world - class manufacturing and food production ; increase the visibility of british food procure by the public sector ; encourage investment and job create in town and city across the country ; improve transparency around contract award to small and medium - sized enterprise ; and , just as importantly , recognise and reward good employment practice . let I give some context to demonstrate the need , right now , for the Bill . the UK be in a recession and have experience year of stagnant economic growth . the number of company go bust in 2023 hit a 30 - year high . More than 25 , 000 UK company insolvency be register last year . those figure show that one in 186 active firm go bust in 2023 . that grim economic outlook be compound by the fact that many sme feel shut out of the public procurement system . taxpayer ' money be be spend with big multinational and foreign supplier , when as much as possible it should be spend on support british business and job , as other country do with their own industry . the Government have long argue that the EU have rule prevent they from prioritise british business . many see Brexit as an opportunity for more taxpayer ' money to be spend with british supplier . we be tell that british business would be first in the queue for UK Government contract once we leave the EU . the 2019 conservative party manifesto even state , with regard to food procurement : " when we leave the EU , we will be able to encourage the public sector to ' buy british ' to support our farmer and reduce environmental cost . " this have simply not happen . now be high time for some of the benefit voter be promise from Brexit to come to pass . my Bill , if the Government accept it , would deliver more contract to british business . this be not a new issue . since my election in 2012 , I have be continuously highlight how the UK Government need to do more to support british steelmaker through public procurement . the UK steel industry employ almost 40 , 000 people directly , with another 50 , 000 job support through the supply chain . it also directly contribute £ 2 . 9 billion to the UK economy and add £ 3 . 8 billion indirectly through supply chain . my constituency of Rotherham be a hub for steel production . we be incredibly proud of that heritage . Liberty Steel employ 900 people locally and support the employment of many more worker throughout the steel chain . we make unique , speciality green steel much value around the world , especially in aerospace . despite this expertise and the high - quality steel that Liberty and other steelmaker produce , our steel industry still need Government support . let I be clear that I be not talk about handout ; I be talk about public contract . UK Steel analysis of the 2023 steel pipeline report find that of the £ 603 million - worth of steel procure by government in the last financial year , 2022 - 23 , only £ 365 million - worth be UK - produce . furthermore , the British Constructional Steelwork Association analysis of steel use in the HS2 project find that only 58 % of steel contract be award to british supplier , despite the british steel industry have the capacity to have carry out 100 % of the work . I welcome the recent introduction of the UK steel safeguard and the fact that UK Government Departments be now require to report past buying and future purchase pipeline of UK - make steel buy by the public purse . those measure , particularly the reporting of where the steel be procure from in project , be design to encourage the uptake of UK - produce steel . the mandatory reporting model be a good template for other industry and Departments , and I welcome it . my Bill take that mechanism and seek to use it to achieve similar result across the economy , compelling contracting authority to publish where they be procure from , and to encourage the uptake of good and service from british supplier . let I give another example . I be sure hon . member be aware that the public procurement system be fail our great british farmer . I strongly believe we must support our local food producer by ensure that we buy , sell , make and grow more of our food , entrench Britain ' s reputation as a beacon for quality food , high standard and ethical animal treatment . the UK public sector spend about £ 2 . 4 billion a year procure food for organisation such as school , hospital and the armed force . that account for approximately 5 . 5 % of UK food sector sale . despite that level of spending , there be no accurate measure of how much food the public sector procure from british farmer . my Bill will address that . the british public support buy british . the online supermarket Ocado report that 87 % of its customer consider it important to support british farmer , with search for british produce on its website up by 77 % year on year — the hon . Lady conveniently mention the addition of the " Buy british " button on Ocado . will she pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) for lead a fantastic campaign , bring in that " buy british " button on a number of supermarket website ? will she also join my call for all the other to catch up and do the same ? the hon . Gentleman have have a premonition , as that be my next line . the hon . member for Bosworth should indeed be commend for the " buy british " button and we absolutely should roll it out across all website , across all supplier . every supermarket and local shop should be proud to say that they stock produce that be make in Britain and make as locally as possible . that help we on so many level , particularly the environmental one . it also support our worker , who be do an amazing job in a very tough environment . I absolutely support the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) and the hon . member for Bosworth for the work that they have do and be do on this . as my hon . friend rightly point out , people in school and hospital have no choice as to what provider they go to , because they be in an institution , as we be ; the choice be make by the institution on their behalf . where consumer do not have a choice , the reporting requirement under the Bill would apply pressure to ensure that the choice make on their behalf be the right one . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . nobody who procure with taxpayer ' money want to do a bad job or waste money ; the high possible scrutiny be impose . my Bill ask they to publish their decision , in the hope that if minister follow up that datum , they can see why decision be make and how much of the procurement be from british supplier . on his specific example , parent would love to know the trail of the food their child be eat . a recent poll by Deltapoll back that up . it find that 81 % of 4 , 000 people poll say that be able to buy british food be " very " or " fairly " important , while 94 % of people say that support of farmer be " very " or " fairly " important . despite overwhelming public and cross - party support for buy British , let we be honest that our farmer be struggle . the Office for National Statistics report that over 6 , 000 agricultural business have close since 2017 . meanwhile , the National Farmers Union report that business certainty and confidence within british farming be at an all - time low . alongside the obvious economic and social benefit of buy more british food , such as boost the economy and create job , there be also ethical reason for want more british food to be procure . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals have long raise the issue of procure authority buy food from overseas that be produce to low standard than in the UK , such as battery egg and sow stall pork . our animal welfare standard in the UK lead the world . through my Bill focus on buy british , we will also contribute to cruelty - free procurement become the norm . my Bill will require contracting authority to publish what proportion of food procure originate from supplier in the UK . that will finally create an accurate measure of how much food the public sector procure from british farmer . the hon . Lady be be incredibly generous with her time . I have the privilege of sit on the Procurement Bill Committee recently . that be a lengthy Bill deal with a whole panoply of procurement legislation to make our procurement system fit for the future . will she make some remark about why it be important for her Bill to progress today when measure in the Procurement Bill have not yet come into force , so we have not see the result of that work ? I thank the hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) for their work on that important Bill . I be try to aid the process of that roll - out because , if my Bill pass , procure authority will have to publish what they be procure . that will probably be the only datum available to see whether the cross - party intention , as set out in the Procurement Bill , to try to get more british business support through our procurement process , be work . if it be not work , Ministers would have the information to make the update guidance bolder . that datum would enable Ministers to give procurement money to british business if they wish , and if that be not breach any law . I see my Bill as a help ; I do not see it under - mining what be happen because of measure in the Procurement Bill . there be something go on — the hon . member for Darlington have anticipate my next point . importantly , the Bill do not require public procurement professional to take any specific action beyond report what have be procure and how that benefit the local environment . such an obligation can not reasonably be see as compromise the UK ' s international obligation , which be a concern the UK Government previously have with " buy british " policy . the measure will benefit UK food producer on the principle that what be inspect be generally deliver . I be proud that the NFU , the Countryside Alliance and the RSPCA all help I to develop the Bill , and they support it . it feel as if the Government , and particularly the Minister , support it . I welcome the recent announcement of an independent adviser , the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , to support the ongoing work to improve public sector food procurement . the area of the review be strikingly close to those I seek to address with the Bill , so I be incredibly grateful that the Minister have offer the time of the hon . member for Colchester , and hopefully the time of civil servant , so that we can work together towards those common aim . I turn to another key driver behind the Bill , which be enable small and medium - sized enterprise to access public contract . sme make up 99 % of UK business and account for 61 % of employment . despite be the beat heart of our economy , research from the Federation of Small Businesses have find that sme be effectively shut out of the public procurement system . only one in five sme have bid for a public sector contract in the last three year . in the construction industry , a sector heavily reliant on sme , only two in five sme have bid for a public sector contract in the last three year . of sme new to public sector opportunity — those with experience of between one and nine bid — 49 % have fail to secure a single contract in the last three year . the lack of transparency mean that they do not know why they have fail . submit a tender application be a resource - heavy process . if an SME keep get knock back , the stat show that it will eventually stop try . the National Federation of Builders , a trade association represent the interest of small and medium - sized house builder , tell I that one of its member have not successfully bid for a public sector contract for over a decade , even though it be well qualified to deliver . sadly , this situation be replicate across most sector . of course some sme be reject for good reason , but there be clearly a cultural issue in public contract be award to large , often multinational business over sme . small company be often put off because the cost of tender for such contract be so high that fail to win the contract could have a really detrimental impact on the business as a whole . my right hon . friend be absolutely right , and that chilling effect be have a negative impact on all our sme . the work group debate divide big contract so that local sme be more inclined to go for they but , unless sme know why they have fail and unless they know that the door be actually open to they , why would they waste their precious resource on bid for something that they see as utterly futile ? that be what we have to change . there be clearly a cultural issue , which be demonstrate by the fact that 90 % of contract deem suitable for sme be award to large corporation . datum from the British Chambers of Commerce find that , in 2016 , 25 % of public sector procurement spending be award directly to sme . as of 2021 , this figure have drop to 21 % . only just over £ 1 in every £ 5 spend by the UK Government on public service be go straight to sme , which be in stark contrast to their 2022 target of spend £ 1 in every £ 3 with sme . the national chair of the Federation of Small Businesses say in August 2023 : " meet procurement target isn ' t just a bureaucratic milestone — it ' s an affirmation of trust in our small business community . " he be right . sme offer so much expertise and innovation , and they must be award more suitable public contract . frustratingly , when they get a bite of the cherry , it be usually as a subcontractor , with much low remuneration than if they have be the lead , and of course without the public credit . an example of this lead I to introduce this Bill . a Rotherham business that lead not only the UK but the world with its innovation be grateful to deliver a £ 1 million Government contract . however , it be actually a £ 10 million contract that have be deliver to a multinational that then subcontract it down to my business , have do nothing other than the packaging and the marketing around it . have my business know that it could apply , even if it be pay £ 2 million , it would have mean that the business do not have to do it at cost for what it hope would be a way in to Government procurement . the business could have do it , make a profit and keep go , but the business be currently face a tough time . by amend section 1 ( 3 ) of the Public Services ( Social Value ) Act 2012 , my Bill seek to add an obligation for contracting authority to consider how procure from small and medium - sized enterprise might improve their area ' s wellbee . clause 2 will require contracting authority to report how they have comply with this obligation . it be hope that these change will increase the importance of sme within social value tender and will encourage the public sector to award more contract to they . as I mention , billion of pound of public contract be award to foreign supplier every year . the most recent data show that a substantial number of contract be award to foreign supplier both directly and indirectly — indirectly be when a foreign supplier control the successful applicant for a contract . of public contract value below £ 200 million , 2 . 3 % be award directly to foreign supplier , but this rise to 17 . 6 % when indirect award be account for . the story be similar for contract value over £ 200 million : 2 . 1 % be directly award to foreign supplier whereas 31 . 5 % of contract be indirectly award to foreign supplier . an example of such a contract be the £ 1 . 6 billion Royal Navy contract award to a Spanish - lead consortium in 2022 over an all - british one . analysis show that at least 40 % of the work , worth £ 64 million , will go abroad and be carry out in Spain . to compound this issue , there have be no concrete answer as to whether there be a limit on how many job will be create in Spain and why there be no target for UK steel in the contract . I thank my hon . friend for make such significant and poignant point , and I be sure she have give much thought to this . why do she think the Government have allow so many procurement to foreign supplier over british small and medium - sized enterprise ? my hon . Friend ask an impossible question and she might want to ask it again to the Minister . in develop this Bill , I have conversation with the relevant Minister and he have be very open , and I know the Minister who be due to reply be also very open to this . I think the block be hesitancy in term of the legislation and find a way through , which be why my Bill be terribly modest in that it be just look at transparency around where those contract go , with the hope that that will do enough to influence where they actually land , which we would like to expect might be british business . so my answer to my hon . friend ' s question be , " who know ? " and it be a question the british public be ask all the time , particularly when a local business go bust as a consequence . on the £ 1 . 6 billion contract I be talk about , the all - british bid would have generate over 6 , 000 good UK job and support a full onshore build of the ship . this bid also promise an investment of £ 90 million in UK shipyard and a furth £ 54 million in training , apprenticeship and improve the UK skill base . have social value to the UK be prioritise , as my Bill would encourage , surely it would have win the contract . instead a sizeable proportion of the work will go abroad at the expense of british job and support british business . my Bill raise the level of importance attach to the origin of good and service in procurement decision by increase transparency around how public sector contract be award and encourage the uptake of british - originate product . my Bill also seek to highlight good employment standard within procurement . when develop the Bill , the TUC share with I the dire state of employment standard and working practice within public procurement . to be clear , most employer treat their employee well , but it be common for outsource to have a detrimental effect on wage and condition , with outsource worker more likely to work long hour , receive less pay and be on insecure or temporary contract . be it not also a particular problem when procurement be give to a foreign company who will be use worker with different standard and different collective bargaining , which be totally unfair to the british business that have to follow british law and british agreement with trade union ? provide this datum will give a level playing field to business who will know where they be be undercut . again , my hon . friend be absolutely right . if company pay people appallingly low wage , they can then undercut british business that want to pay people well and give they the term and condition so that work be fulfil economically as well as psychologically . yes , we be lose hand over fist in the current situation . my Bill would therefore require contracting authority to consider how they might act to support good employment standard and working practice . my Bill define good employment standard and working practice as include , but not limit to , compliance with national and international obligation in the field of environment , social and labour law , and collective agreement . the Bill also require contracting authority to include reasonable detail about how they have comply with their obligation to meet such standard in a contract award notice . my amendment to exist legislation raise the importance of good work within public procurement , and encourage contracting authority to award contract to good employer by attempt to replicate regulation 56 of the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 , which relate to exclude supplier who be not compliant with international and domestic social , labour and environmental law . it be design to stop bad employment practice be tolerate within public procurement , such as fire and rehire or contractor refuse to implement the annual uplift of the real living wage . great care have be take in draft the Bill to avoid include measure that would threaten the UK ' s international obligation with respect to trade rule and the agreement on Government procurement . it be also important to note that my Bill would place the responsibility on the contracting authority , not on the supplier or UK Government , to publish datum on their compliance with the relevant provision under clause 2 . I hope that my Bill will also influence the conversation on reform the public procurement system , so I be grateful that the Minister have offer I and the working group the opportunity to meet the civil servant and perhaps the Minister to make change , if need , to the national procurement policy statement . publish in June 2021 , the npps argue that the " huge power " of public procurement expenditure " must support the delivery of public sector policy priority , include generate economic growth , help our community recover from the Covid - 19 pandemic , and support the transition to net zero carbon . " it go on to outline how : " public procurement should be leveraged to support priority national and local outcome for the public benefit … contracting authority should consider the follow social value outcome " when procure such good and service . my Bill seek to cover all those , but I would be a little strong on the " should " become a " must " . aside from that , I think we be absolutely on the same page . to conclude , my conversation with Rotherham business and national industry group have make it clear that the change I be propose be welcome and overdue . I defy the Minister to find anyone in the UK who would not see this as common sense . implement the change will increase transparency and encourage more public contract to be award to british supplier . by support this Bill , the House have an opportunity to demonstrate their support to british manufacturer , builder , farmer and sme . I thank the Labour Front Benchers for their support , and I be grateful to the member of the working group who help I to develop it — the TUC , UK Steel , National Farmers Union , the RSPCA , the YPO , the Countryside Alliance , APSI , Bloom Procurement Services , the National Federation of Builders and Jonathan Davey — for all the help , support and guidance they have give I to date . I congratulate the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) on her Bill , which fly the flag for british business . I be a firm believer in support business and in ensure that we do all that we can to embrace support and to expand british business . indeed , on the topic of buy british , as I mention in my intervention , my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) have do some fantastic work in encourage our supermarket to add a " buy british " button to many of their website . he need to be commend for that fantastic work . the hon . member for Rotherham have bring forward in her Bill some important point and a focus on british business , which be important . we must be flexible in our procurement process , but we need more focus on ensure that small and medium - sized enterprise have the chance to succeed and be not discriminate against . I admire her intention , which I do not disagree with , but before I can support her Bill , we need the measure in the Procurement Act 2023 to proceed and progress , give the work that be do on it . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , who have lay out a good reason why we need to develop these measure . it be a pleasure to serve with the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on the Procurement Bill Committee in the last session , where Labour table a number of amendment to further the cause of ensure that we evaluate social value in contract . whether something be british be clearly a key social value for contract . with british contract , taxpayer ' money return into local economy , there be Exchequer benefit , and we tend to have high and well - quality standard in worker ’ right and environmental right . there be , in my view , a real problem with the current process . we introduce standard — be they environmental or worker ' standard — and quite rightly demand that they be high . then , we say to company , " Don ' t worry . get around it ; ignore it all . just offshore your production . " in fact , through those standard , we become a great champion not of increase standard but of destroy job in this country . some Government Members — not all , but some — would say , " well , that be an example of why we need to deregulate . that be why we should embrace our Brexit freedom to ensure that we never get to a place where we be anti - competitive compare with the rest of the world . " the problem be that that be a race to the very bottom . first , it be a race to get below EU standard , then it be a race against standard from Turkey , and then it be a race against standard from China or country in Africa . our population end up poorer and our environment more degraded . the European Union and the US have implement carbon border adjustment mechanism to ensure that a tax be put on to adjust for the saving that a company would make by offshore . the Government have rightly move towards adopt the carbon border adjustment mechanism — although it be quite late , I be afraid — but they have not go far enough . in America and now in Europe , there be an understanding that open procurement , in which we ignore the condition of bidding company , be a road to ruin . they have introduce act to focus on buy american or european . despite the naysayer , that have not lead to those country be haul up before the World Trade Organisation in relation to the agreement on Government procurement . of course , we be a signatory to that agreement , but the fact that other signatory be able to implement a priority to buy from their own country show that we should be less concerned about that agreement and more concerned about british job , british worker and british company . there be a small organisation in my constituency for which we try to table an amendment to the Procurement Act . it would have mean that non - profit and small organisation could be give a leg - up in public procurement . it would have mean that if a contracting party have already develop a local relationship with such an organisation , it could bypass certain public procurement measure . I be afraid that it be reject by the Government , but in Brighton we have an example of why it be need . only a few year ago , rise — Brighton ' s specialist domestic violence service , which be one of 180 member of the network of Women ' s aid organisation and provide local expert holistic service for woman , child and LGBT survivor of domestic abuse — be defunde when it lose its public procurement bid to an international consortium . it be set up 50 year ago and become a register charity 30 year ago . it argue for and successfully get the first all - woman ' s refuge in Brighton . sixteen year ago , it set up the first LGBT service for domestic abuse survivor in the country , and three year ago it lose its public procurement and have to start from scratch . the reality be that that procurement do not take into account the social value and whether the term and condition negotiate through trade union would be include . that have mean that a large number of people do not have the service they expect . surprise , surprise , the contractor run the woman ' s refuge — a nice , very good housing association , but not a woman - lead specialist organisation in this area — be not able to offer the wraparound service , and the council have to provide additional emergency fund to rise so that it could go into the refuge and provide the wraparound service that the woman need . the procurement process defunde a local woman - lead organisation and cost the council more because it have to provide additional funding to that organisation . it be a loss for woman in my city and for the council , which have have to pay more money , all because there be not a proper framework for the council to evaluate the situation and ensure that , rather than just have this neoliberal public procurement — a blind process — we work with and nurture community . what be the end result ? the next time the procurement come around , RISE , which be a strong , healthy organisation , will be a weak , diminished organisation that will not be able to bid competitively against a national or international body . in the end , there will be few provider in this space , and of course anyone who do their basic GCSE or o - level economic , like I do , know how the market work if there be monopoly provider : the price will be high , council will have few option and the taxpayer will lose out . we need to start turn that around . unfortunately , as a result of the loss of the big bid from rise , and thank to the cut that we be be force to implement in Brighton and Hove as a result of the continue austerity and the failure to support local council , this year it have not be able to bid for £ 129 , 000 of additional service , include £ 5 , 000 from the third sector grant and £ 99 , 000 of new burden funding for the LGBT disperse refuge , mean that we will have no specialist LGBT refuge support in the city . that will put pressure on the woman ' s refuge , in which we have maintain good separate but equal service — that be how it should be — and that be now under threat . there be also a threat to the therapeutic wellbeing service for woman and child . in these uncertain time , if we have start the process differently , we would have end up with a flourishing local community . in December , the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , on which I sit , produce a report in which we find that the Government have not demonstrate that they have consistently use their purchasing power to support local and national policy , as my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham say early . the big problem we find be that there be no datum . without datum , we can not provide policy , and without policy , we can not correct the problem . we see that problem happen all around we — we see local community lose out — but we can not get the datum that be need . a number of the international agreement that we have sign , such as the Australia trade deal , have revolutionary clause around gender , for example , but if we be not monitor some of these issue , we will not be able to put clause in future trade deal , and we will bind ourselves in . the only reason that we could include the clause on gender and trade be the fantastic work that my hon . friend do to ensure that the datum be collect . the Bill be the next step towards strengthen the hand of British Trade Secretaries when they be negotiate around the world . it be about ensure that we say , " yes , we want free , fair and open trade , but we also want trade that level up , not level down . " Government Members understand the word " level up " , but I be not sure they have manage to deliver on the concept , so understandably , they would struggle with it in international treaty . the Bill start to build on that process . we need look only at the real problem we have see with shady contract under this government to see that we need public procurement reform . I do not believe that the Procurement Act 2023 do that successfully enough , and this Bill be need to fix some of those issue . I be delighted that the Government have agree to meet my hon . friend , and I know that when Labour be in government , we will start to fix some of the mess into which this Government have lead we . I rise to support the aim of this private Member ' s Bill , which be more commonly know as the " Buy British Bill " , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . we have the Bill because the Conservative Government have fail to properly reform the procurement system and to support british business , which mean that they have fail to bring well - pay job to community up and down our country . the british Chambers of Commerce find that , in 2021 , small and medium - sized enterprise receive a relatively small amount of direct Government procurement money than they do five year previously . I therefore ask the Minister : why be sme be sideline from access to public procurement under this Government , and why do they prefer to procure from foreign supplier ? that be how it seem to I . a Labour Government would cut red tape , ensure that every small national contract include an SME at shortlist , and streamline the bidding process . meanwhile , the Conservatives have fail to take opportunity to reform the procurement process to support british business and community . when the Procurement Act come into force later this year , it will do nothing to address the wasteful approach to emergency contracting rule that we see during the pandemic . that approach see friend and donor of the Tory party be give the first bite of the cherry , while decent , skilled local business be deny the same opportunity . one of those donor be Frank Hester , who , as we know , be abusive , racist and misogynistic . even more shockingly , he speak about end an MP ' s life . I take that incredibly seriously . he be also the sole director of the Phoenix Partnership , an IT company that have be pay nearly half a billion pound by central and local government and the NHS since 2016 . I would like the Minister to reflect on that because the Government have to change course . turn specifically to the Bill and british food procurement , the Government ' s food strategy from nearly two year ago state : " public sector food should be healthy , more sustainable and provide by a diverse range of local supplier . locally produce food with reduce distance between farm and fork can provide societal benefit " . I would like the Government to put those word into action , and I wholeheartedly support my hon . friend ' s Bill . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for bring this Bill forward . I know that she have work incredibly hard on it , and do an enormous amount of work consult with a wide range of stakeholder on the need for it and its scope . in Newham , add value to procurement decision be see as a priority , but , as I be sure hon . member will appreciate , it have be make extremely difficult with 14 year of austerity have leave Newham Council reeling while massively increase local need . the real impact of funding cut be hard to quantify because each cut have a social and economic impact , but Newham ' s general fund have be cut by about 18 % and its population have increase by 16 % . of course , we can not fix all of that through procurement , but we can address some of it through community wealth building in the long term . I want to be really honest about this : it be a really difficult thing to achieve , but that be what the council be work towards , and I believe it deserve our full support . like many council , from Manchester to Darlington , Newham have go far : it have decide to focus on the many way we can build a community ' s wealth . to I , community wealth be about create a resilient and inclusive economy for the benefit of the local area . that mean harness the economic and social power of locally root institution , include our council , school , police , university , health board and housing association . one way in which Newham Council be build community wealth be through increase the proportion of its local procurement spend . the council have also provide support to local business so that they can more easily reply to their tender . a few year ago , Newham have a significantly low proportion of resilient business than some other area of inner London , with only 48 % of business in Newham assess as resilient in 2018 , compare with 69 % in inner London as a whole . for some of those business , be award long - term local contract help they not only to survive , but to thrive and grow in a sustainable way . in the Royal Docks , the council have work with partner to create London ' s first living wage zone , with every single employer encourage to pay the London living wage of £ 13 . 15 an hour . More than 100 local employer have sign up to the council ' s voluntary community wealth building pledge , which include a commitment to pay the London living wage . the pledge also include a wide range of step that the council encourage employer to take to help build community wealth — for example , buy local , prioritise sustainability and support local resident . those include have at least two Newham supplier within their supply chain or commit to seek out quote from Newham business when procure new service and product . they also pledge to reduce their carbon footprint . business be encourage to switch to a renewable energy provider or to implement a scheme to encourage their staff to cycle or get public transport to work . they be encourage to invest in staff and young people . business can create lot of opportunity for Newham ' s massively talented young people through apprenticeship , and the council seek to encourage that . business who sign up to the pledge can choose to be link to the council ' s Newham work service to make it easy to hire local people . business can also choose to be link up with local voluntary project that need their support . all that mean that business and employer become more invest in and embed in our community . equally , the emphasis on community wealth building have to involve connect good local business with one another , support network and harness the creativity of our small business leader , because we all know that local Government officer do not have all the answer for how the local economy and society can prosper . for most participant , the pledge be obviously voluntary , and the role of the council be to encourage and support good practice , not to impose it . there be a clear benefit for business , both for their reputation and in have a more secure network of partner around they . there be a clear benefit for business , both for their reputation and in have a more secure network of partner around they . ultimately , we should see procurement for social value as one component in a large strategy of shape the local economy , so that the prosperity we create be more widely share and well sustain over time . when it come to procurement , the council have a commitment to use its process to ensure that contractor , as well as the council itself , pay the London living wage in full . that be clearly of massive importance give the continue impact locally of the cost of living crisis . I be sure that all member present understand that our local area have thrive business mean well job for our community and high standard of living , and we all want that . Newham Council recognise the value of small local business and the value of good employment standard . surely that be the kind of encouragement and offer of partnership we should be give to entrepreneur and business people across the UK . let I give one last example . Populo be Newham Council ' s wholly own housing company , which be build home for rent — include a significant proportion of genuinely affordable home — in order to tackle the housing shortage , which be impoverish so many people in Newham . it be currently build hundred of new home in Newham , aim for 7 , 000 by 2040 . because it be wholly own by the council , Populo can embed high standard in procurement , planning and design so that our wide social and economic goal be meet , as well as deliver more of the home that be so desperately need locally . there be much more that I could say on this subject , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I want to give my Front - Bench colleague the opportunity to speak as well . I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) on her success in the ballot for private member ' Bills , and on bring forward a Bill that could benefit the small and medium - sized enterprise not only in her own area , but right across the UK . my hon . friend have long recognise the importance and huge contribution of small and medium - sized business in her area and have stand up for they , as well as campaign rigorously for the steel industry . she have put considerable effort into prepare this Bill , include set up a work group with a whole range of organisation , include the TUC , Rolls - Royce , UK Steel , the National Farmers Union , the National Federation of Builders , the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals , the Countryside Alliance , Bloom Procurement Services , YPO and the Association for Public Service Excellence . I congratulate my hon . friend on an excellent speech , in which she reveal some shocking fact show how , time after time , small and medium - sized enterprise be miss out to foreign supplier or to big multinational that be manufacture abroad . whether it be naval ship or construction , a huge range of industry be miss out . I also thank my hon . friend the Members for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) and for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) and the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for their contribution today . the UK be a party to the World Trade Organisation ' s agreement on Government procurement and other international free trade agreement , which , for procurement over a certain value threshold , legally require contracting authority not to discriminate against supplier from other country that be also sign up to one of those agreement . nevertheless , procurement policy can still do plenty to support british business , such as use stretch social , environmental and labour clause in contract design to ensure that british business be recognise for the very high standard that they meet . as be mention early today , people may well ask why it be that my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham be bring forward a bill on procurement when only last year the Government bring forward their own Procurement Bill , which will come into force this October . the fact of the matter , quite simply , be that the Government ' s Procurement Act 2023 be a waste opportunity to reform procurement . unfortunately , despite our attempt to strengthen and improve that Bill with our amendment , when the Procurement Act come into force in October it will allow the same wasteful approach to emergency contracting rule that we see during the pandemic , with friend and donor of the Tory party give the first bite at the cherry , while decent , skilled local business be deny the same opportunity . billion of pound of public money will be waste , which excellent small and medium - sized business such as BCB International in my constituency — on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be be report in the medium that Conservative Members be " talk out " the next Bill , the Health and Equality act ( Amendment ) Bill . that be clearly not the case ; it be Labour Members who be prevent discussion of the Bill . in what way can I make that clear ? the hon . Gentleman have be here long enough to know that that be not a point of order for the Chair . it be abundantly plain to anyone watch the debate that the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) be on her foot , speak from the Opposition Front Bench . the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 22 March . business without Debate Health and Equality act ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . child not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Telecommunications Infrastructure ( Consultation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . public Liability ( Compulsory Insurance ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . Employment Equality ( Insurance etc ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . support for Infants and Parents etc ( information ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Veterans ( Non - custodial Sentences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 29 March . nuclear Veterans ( Compensation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . miner ' Strike ( Pardons ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . licensing Hours Extensions Bill consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Object . Bill to be consider on Friday 22 March . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Diagnosis and Treatment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemption of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Regulatory Impact assessment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Barnett Formula ( Replacement ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . rule of Law ( Enforcement by Public Authorities ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Caravan site Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Multi - Storey Car Parks ( Safety ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . Conversion Practices ( prohibition ) Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 1 March ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 22 March . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . if I may , I will take a moment to recognise that the United Nations have make today International Day to Combat Islamophobia . the Government condemn anti - muslim hatred , just as we condemn antisemitism and all form of racism and hatred , and I would like to put on the record that it be a matter of profound regret to we all that people be still judge by their identity , when they should be judge by their conduct and their character . as the Minister will understand , that be not a point of order for the Chair , but he have put his point on the record . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition concern infected blood . I do so on behalf of my constituent , because it be simply unacceptable that the Budget fail to provide for compensation for those affect . I hope the Government will now take action to fulfil the will of this House , as express in the Victims and Prisoners Bill . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of West Ham , Declares that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain etc . [ p002928 ] Thames Water : Contingency Plans Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker , for grant I the opportunity to have a debate on this important issue . since 2020 , Thames Water have dump over 72 billion litre of raw sewage into river in London , pollute our waterway and damage our natural environment . it have do so while accrue billion of pound of debt and increasingly fail to provide basic service to the nearly 25 % of the country it supply , include my constituent in Richmond Park . despite this , Thames Water executive have pay themselves almost £ 8 million in bonus over recent year , line their pocket while the company they run continue to pollute our river and stream . for my constituent in particular , the name Thames Water have understandably become a byword for poor quality , slapdash repair work , damage environmental practice , and barely conceal contempt for its bill payer . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way . my constituent have suffer quite seriously from similar issue , include interruption to water supply to a large part of reading recently and , indeed , considerable sewage discharge in the river , which , outrageously , be sometimes visible to passer - by who use our bridge and walk by the riverside . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about sewage discharge . we have have a recent one in Teddington lock in my constituency , cause a great deal of distress to local people . during my time as the MP for Richmond Park , I have receive dozen of report of Thames Water ' s negligence . in 2020 , more than 1 , 200 home in Richmond be leave without central heating or hot water for five day when water from a burst pipe ingresse the gas network . last year , a burst water main on the Manor Circus roundabout go unattended for day , delay the completion of roadwork that be cause chaos in the area . my resident in north Kingston have have to make their peace with constant congestion cause by an unending series of emergency repair work — all because this fail water giant can not get its act together . that be just a mere snapshot of the chaos that Thames Water cause for my constituent every day . to add insult to injury , Thames Water be now plan to build a pipeline across a nature reserve in my constituency . the controversial Teddington direct river abstraction project will allow Thames Water to take water from the Thames and replace it with treat sewage just above Teddington lock . the pipeline ' s construction will put a rare and valuable ecosystem under threat and subject my resident in Ham and north Kingston to year of building work . this project be only necessary because Thames Water be lose hundred of million of litre of water a day through leak in its system . my constituent be yet again suffer , because the company have spend year pay out hundred of million of pound in dividend to shareholder , instead of invest in its infrastructure . they have to live with the congestion on the street , the threat of major construction in their park and the sewage run through their river . now , they be pick up the tab for Thames Water ' s total mismanagement of its finance . I be recently contact by a constituent who have see his water bill rise by just over 60 % between 2020 and 2024 . every year , more and more of my constituent ' income be go towards prop up a company that show an utter disregard for they and their community . it be therefore infuriate to see recent report in the Financial Times that Thames Water have be lobby the Government and the industry regulator , Ofwat , to let it increase bill far , pay dividend and face low fine as it seek to avoid financial collapse . this be despite Conservative Ministers already bend over backwards to avoid crack down on pollute water company . it be extraordinary that the country ' s large water company could be allow by this Government to give its executive million in bonus while fail to fulfil its basic function , but that be the situation that have be allow to occur for far too long . over the past few week , I have therefore be call on Conservative Ministers to publish their contingency plan , Project Timber , for what they will do if Thames Water go bust . frustratingly , my demand have continually be refuse , with the response be that " it would not be appropriate " to publish the plan . this be despite what be now overwhelming public interest to do so . with the news this week , however , that Thames Water be the only water firm that have refuse to contribute to a new £ 180 million anti - pollution fund , the alarm bell become deafen about its financial status . and when I ask the Prime Minister at PMQs this week whether he could confirm that this broken company will still exist by the end of the year , he be unable to answer . that be why , today , I stand here to call not only for the publication of Project Timber , but for far , more drastic action . last month , the Government pass new legislation , which allow the High Court to appoint a special administrator to take over a fail water firm . with Thames Water clearly unable to pay its debt and with its late refusal to contribute investment to combat sewage , I believe the threshold have now be meet for the Government to take this as a course of action . that be why I now speak on behalf of the Liberal Democrats in call on the Government to put Thames Water into special administration . under these new proposal , the taxpayer would not be liable for any debt , and the special administrator could restructure this fail firm into a company for the public benefit . that would ensure no interruption in service for million of household across the capital and the south of England , while allow the company to be stabilise — no long rely on its fail board . far , by enact those special measure , Thames Water could restart effort to stop harmful sewage discharge into river and lake . this would also guarantee no further executive bonus be pay , follow the near million which have be pay to senior official in recent year . we therefore face two option : to continue allow Thames Water slowly sink into financial ruin , or to act now to restructure this fail company and start get it work again for the public benefit . to conclude , after year of let Thames Water pollute our river , fail to perform basic function and charge customer high and high bill , enough be enough . rather than continue to let the asset stripper run Thames Water into the ground , the liberal Democrats be clear : we can not let this situation continue . Thames Water be no long a function company , and the Government have a choice : either bail they out with taxpayer money , or listen to our call to put it into special administration to then be reform into a company for the public benefit . after year of Conservative Ministers refuse to take action , this vital step be need to safeguard customer , steady the ship and get our country ' s large water company function again . I congratulate the hon . Lady on secure the debate . I be delighted to respond on behalf of the Government . water be what make life possible on our planet . it be essential for our health and wellbeing , our economy , the production of food and , of course , clean energy . I want to make it clear from the outset that no matter the individual circumstance of their water or waste water company , the public will always continue to receive those vital service . the Government be commit to ensure that water company deliver the performance and environmental outcome bill payer expect and deserve . our plan for water will transform our management of the water system , deliver clean water for nature and people , as well as secure plentiful supply . the plan be deliver more investment , strong regulation and tough enforcement , with water company invest £ 7 . 1 billion in environmental improvement between 2020 and 2025 , and an estimate £ 60 million in capital investment by 2050 to meet storm overflow reduction plan target . I want to reassure the House that the Government be prepare for a range of scenario across all our regulated industry , include across all water company , as any Government should be . the Government ' s key priority be the ongoing provision of water and waste water service . there be plan in place to ensure that there will be no disruption to customer ' water or waste water service , and that any incident that may occur will continue to be quickly address , no matter the financial situation of one ' s water or waste water company . regard contingency plan as they specifically relate to Thames Water , as note to the House previously , Ofwat monitor the financial position of all water company , include Thames Water , and take action when water company and their investor need to strengthen their long - term financial resilience . however , it be important to make clear that it be for the company and its investor to manage the company ' s financial resilience within the context of its licence and broad statutory obligation . the Government be confident that Ofwat , as the economic regulator of the water industry , be work closely with all water company , include Thames Water , and ensure that action be take when financial resilience need to be improve . although a wide range of option be available to water company , such as the injection of new equity when they be require to strengthen their financial resilience , I know that both Parliament and the public will want reassurance that should the bad happen regard any water company , water and waste water service will continue to be provide . should a water company become insolvent — when it be unable to pay its debt , or when its liability be great than its asset , or when a company be in such serious breach of its principal statutory duty or an enforcement order — it would enter special administration follow a court application . should a special administration order ever be need for any water company , the statutory purpose of the order would be to ensure that the company continue to operate and that customer continue to receive their water and waste water service . the existence of the water industry special administration regime be not a secret . it be set out in statute , and there be similar regime in place for other regulated sector such as banking and energy . these power be agree by Parliament over 30 year ago in the Water Industry Act 1991 . I hope the existence of the water industry special administration regime will provide reassurance that , no matter the circumstance of their water company or waste water company , customer will continue to receive these vital public service . the Minister say it be not a secret that these regulation exist , but what be currently a secret be Project Timber , which I understand be a contingency plan should Thames Water be unable to operate . could he say a little more about that ? I do not want to be draw into the specific case of specific company because there be market sensitivity , but it be clear that these regulation exist for all body that provide we with energy , banking , water and all those vital service that our constituent expect not to fall over . the Government have a plan to support those vital sector in moment of distress . the Government ' s priority be the ongoing provision of water and waste water service . can the Minister advise I on the course of action where a water company appear not to be offer compensation where there have be an interruption in supply ? will he perhaps write to I on this matter ? a large number of my constituent — several hundred people — have recently have a supply interruption . I inquire with Thames Water some week ago as to whether it will pay compensation , but I have not yet have a reply . we be in some distress about this matter . many resident be affect for two day and be unable to have a shower , do their washing or perform other domestic task . I be aware of the distress that be without water will have cause to the hon . Gentleman ' s resident . of course , I will write to he formally to set out what he can do . I hope that I have be able to reassure the House that Ofwat continue to work closely with the water company and their investor . where it have be determine that financial resilience need to be strengthen , a wide range of option be available to all water company . by highlight the existence of the water industry special administration regime , I hope that I have provide reassurance that the Government have a transparent plan and be prepare for all eventuality when it come to the provision of vital public service . question put and agree to . House adjourn .