I compliment my good friend the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) on his passion , commitment , knowledge and determination . if I may say so , I be also grateful that he mention the late , great David Graeber in his introduction . he be a good friend to both of we , an amazing young man and an amazing philosopher sadly take from we too soon . I think his family will be really chuff that the hon . Member have include he in his speech on something so fundamental as the right to fresh , clean water for we all . this Bill seek to protect that right ; it recognise that water be an essential and basic need , and therefore something so universal and so essential surely ought to be completely in public hand . Most country around the world do not even countenance the idea of privatise water ; they say , " it be our public responsibility to ensure that we can provide clean and safe water for everybody . " when the Government of Margaret Thatcher and other privatise water in the 1980 , many of we strongly oppose it — I think I be the only member in the Chamber who have the privilege of voting against privatisation at the time . we predict that it would lead to a rip - off of the public sector , and to asset stripping of the land and other resource that the water board have build up . we also point out that the water infrastructure we enjoy — the reservoir in Wales , in Scotland and all over England , the piping , the sewage work , and all the other hugely complex element of infrastructure — be , for the most part , build by public enterprise and public investment . we all laud the work of Bialetti in produce a sewage system for London . that be not do by the private sector ; it be do through victorian investment in a public structure to bring about proper treatment of sewage and provide clean water for the people of London . we should be proud of the public investment that bring about the water system that we have , and should recognise that since 1989 , when water be privatised , £ 72 billion have be take out in dividend by the water company . that amount to £ 2 billion a year not invest in water — not invest in new pipe and in protect the system we have . those profit be extraordinary . the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) rightly talk about the amount of pollution flow into our river . I can not get my head around the fact that 300 , 000 hour - worth of sewage be pump into the Thames in the last year alone . when we add that to the amount be pump into the Severn , the Trent , the Humber , the Mersey and all the great river across this country , we realise the scale of the problem we be deal with . we then realise what happen to that — the sewage go into the sea , and it come back in fish . it pollute water , which do not stop at the river ' s mouth ; it go into the ocean , create further global water pollution . surely we can do much well . I therefore welcome the Bill , and I invite member to look seriously at clause 1 and 2 . clause 1 set out the measure that will be require in the Secretary of State ' s strategy , include measure on prioritise investment , collaborate with local authority and use natural flood management technique , and a requirement for local authority to take into account the need for conservation — all incredibly sensible measure that can only be deliver by public authority . privatised water company do not have as their top line the conservation of the natural world and the environment . they have as their top line , their middle line and their bottom line the profit they can take out of it . and please , nobody tell I that the £ 72 billion pay out in dividend have be reinveste in the british economy . it be in tax haven all over the world . we be subsidise tax haven all over the world on the back of our polluted and privatised water industry . clause 2 relate to the commission on water , which be a fascinating proposal . the commission would include representative of water company — which be privatise at the moment but would hopefully be publicly own — union representative in the water industry , environmental or conservation group , water user , which would be local business , and local authority . I strongly support public ownership of water , but I do not envisage a situation in which the Prime Minister , as a gift to his friend , put they all on a british water board . I would like to retain the exist system of manage river basin area — Thames , Severn Trent and so on . that make sense , because that be where the primary water supply come from . that would be manage through a commission that include the workforce , trade union , all the local authority in the area , local business , because they use water and supply service locally , and other who can be appoint from elsewhere . we would have public buy - in to the structure , which would give we a much well and more democratic system . I urge member to look with some imagination at what the hon . member for Norwich South have put forward . some say , " we can ' t possibly bring this into public ownership because it might cost money . " the 1945 Labour Government start by nationalise the Bank of England in 1946 and go on to bring many other industry into public ownership . even the Ted Heath Government in 1971 bring Rolls - Royce into public ownership and create Rolls - Royce ( 1971 ) ltd because the company be fail . the agree share price be set by Parliament — it be not set by the market in all those case . we can do the same in this case .