first , may I align myself with all the tribute to Sir David Amess ? his be a life unfairly cut short , but his memory will live on forever . through you , Mr Deputy Speaker , I thank all the staff : the Clerks , the Doorkeepers , the Speaker ' s team — everyone who keep democracy alive behind the scene ; it be hugely appreciated . thank be the theme of my speech , which I will do my good to give as quickly as possible . when I stand for election in 2019 , I have a series of key pledge , and I be pleased to say that , this year , I will deliver on every single one of they . while many politician like to take all the credit for themselves , I know that this have be do through teamwork , and with the support of other . that be why I want to spend my time thank the people who make fulfil the pledge possible . the first pledge be perhaps the most prominent : secure the funding for Watford General Hospital . my thank go to the leadership team at West Hertfordshire teaching Hospitals NHS Trust , include — but not exclusively — Matthew Coats and Phil Townsend , who have be phenomenal in make sure that the plan be achievable and ambitious , and that we secure the funding . they have help I be an absolute pain in the neck to Ministers , from the Prime Minister down , every single day , so that they know what we want , and we be able to achieve it . I come into Parliament with a challenge to tackle the stigma around mental ill health . I launch an initiative to train 1 , 000 people in mental health first aid awareness ; I would love to go into much more detail on that , and the work that I be do . I give particular thank to the team at Watford and West Herts chamber of commerce , especially Chris , Saffron and Lee , who have be phenomenal in make sure that we be hit that target . I have good news come on that later in the year , but I do not want to jump too far ahead on that . on the national scale , there be my work on the first - aid ( Mental Health ) Bill . I be also try to encourage the Government to look at how we could change the rule to ensure well parity between physical and mental health in the Health and Safety Executive guideline . I have be very grateful to the Ministers who have meet I to discuss that ; to those across the UK who be tackle suicide prevention ; to the team behind Baton of Hope ; to the team who work with I on the " where ' s your head at ? " campaign , for which I be proud to be an ambassador ; and to Dr Alex George and Chris Murray , who have be phenomenal this year . they have really help and support I , and drive I forward to deliver on my promise . I say that I want to tackle rough sleeping . I be pleased to say that , over the past three and a half year , I think around £ 5 million — possibly a bit less or a bit more — for this issue have go to Watford . I have really fight for that and work with Government to achieve it . it mean that , in Watford , we go from have 70 to 80 people on the street every night over decade , to zero at one point in the past couple of year . I think we be at around five to 10 people now ; one person on the street be too many , so we need to make sure that we support they . yes , I could get the Government funding ; I could get support for the issue , and push and champion it ; but really , this action be spark by a gentleman call Matthew Heasman at New Hope UK , a fantastic local charity , and Rob Edmonds . Matthew get I involve from day one of the pandemic . he help I to get the Government to make sure that we could get everyone in and that have continue . the team at one YMCA have be phenomenal in make sure that we deliver on that and have a process that really support people ; Guy Foxell and Mark Turner enable that . outside Watford , there be , sadly , still more rough sleeper . so I be work with Hand on Heart , which be a fantastic charity that work from Watford , to support other in other constituency . on business , I would love to go more into the list of business that I have visit , but the big one for I be make sure that we support our hospitality sector . last year , there be a risk to Pryzm nightclub , which I hold a debate on in this Chamber and I also present a petition on it . the nightclub be save , thank to the work that I do with the team there , who be phenomenal , especially David Vickery ; they be incredible . the reason that work be so important be that it support our night - time economy . it protect our taxi driver , make sure that they have people to drive home every night . we have about 1 , 500 to 3 , 000 people come into Watford just to use the night - time economy , and Pryzm nightclub be at the heart of that . even one of our own Doorkeepers meet his wife there , so there be definitely a Westminster link there . also challenge from a business perspective be make sure that we continue to fight the nonsense from the Mayor of London around ULEZ , because that will cost my constituent a lot of money , especially those who be struggle . on tackle crime , I be pleased to say that , thank to the work with the local police and our police and crime commissioner , we have a new police station come later in the year , which be fantastic news . our current police station be in a place call Shady Lane , so I be a bit upset that we be lose the Shady Lane police station , but the new one will be much more modern and suitable for our fantastic new police officer and our fantastic team . I would also like to formally welcome our new police chief inspector , Andy Wiseman , and all of the new police officer who be secure across Hertfordshire — more than 300 extra police officer , I think , which be fantastic . I also thank they for the support that they have give I when I have be out on dawn raid . there be always a bit of a panic when they say the address that the police be go to raid , because there be the worry that your house will be mention . thankfully , that have not happen so far . it have be phenomenal go out with the police , often in the middle of the night , to see what they do to keep we safe and to make sure that , behind the scene , the bad people do not get away with what they want to do . it be incredible work . I wish to thank everyone , include student from various school , who have be part of Dean ' s green team , work on the environment . one of the big pledge that be make during the election be to end the use of single - use plastic . I know that that be come through later this year , which be phenomenal . the Environment Act 2021 and all the work that be do at COP26 have be so important for all of we around the world , but especially for my constituent in Watford , who be very caring about our local environment . I have previously talk a lot about our local community and the charity that do so much . they include one Vision , Watford Workshop , Community Connect , Step2Skills , Alternatives , the Random Caf é , Watford Women ' s Centre and Watford Interfaith Association . there be so many I could list . they be all phenomenal , but what they be really good at be work together . that be what be so important . as we look at community , it be about the thread that combine we into a tapestry of the story of our town and our community . we also have every religion in Watford — it be one of the wonderful thing about our interfaith community . I will not mention any of the faith now , because I know that I will miss out about five as I try to rush through my point . if I may , I will encourage all to watch " Mission Impossible " . it be a bit of a turn - off , but I say at the start that this be an impossible mission for I . during the pandemic , I be very proud that " Mission Impossible " , which be in cinemas now , be partly film in Leavesden . I help to change the rule with the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Home Office to make sure that film double could change , so that Tom Cruise could go around the world and get the rest of the world to follow our rule , which mean that the film could be film and be in our cinema today . that be a massive change , and I thank the team in Government at the time for enable that to happen . as with everyone else , I could not do this job without my team . we have work on more than 20 , 000 case . I thank Tory , Michelle , Jane , Abby , Imogen and now Jonathan for all their hard work . the surgery that we hold and the work that we do behind the scene be just phenomenal . my final thank go to two people , without whom I could not do this speech : my parent . it be their emerald anniversary today — 55 year . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker .