Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Minister of State be ask — Gaza what recent diplomatic step he have take to help secure a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza . what diplomatic step he be take to help end the conflict in Israel and Gaza . what recent discussion he have have with his counterpart in Israel on the number of civilian death in Gaza . what recent diplomatic step he have take to help secure a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza . we be call for an immediate humanitarian pause , in order to get aid in and hostage out as a vital step towards a sustainable , permanent ceasefire . that be all very well , but the problem be that Netanyahu and the israeli Government be simply ignore all the plea for restraint — those plea have become empty word . what will the Government do to put real pressure on the Israelis to stop the unacceptable killing , enter into negotiation for a permanent ceasefire and stop the threat to permanently annex and occupy Gaza ? have the time come to stop sell to Israel arm that be be use to raze Gaza to the ground ? as I tell the House yesterday , the Foreign Secretary be in the region today and will pursue the vital policy that the hon . Gentleman have set out . the hon . Gentleman will know that it be an absolute priority for Britain to ensure that more aid get in , but the israeli Government have the right of self - defence and , as the UK Government continually make clear , they must exercise that right within international humanitarian law . like many other member , I be sure , I have receive an extraordinary number of email from constituent who be deeply concerned about what be go on — these be people who would never normally get in touch with their MP . we must stop the killing . my party and I believe that an immediate bilateral ceasefire be the way forward . what step be the Government take with partner in the region and around the world to achieve that end ? all of we want a ceasefire , but it must be sustainable . that be why the british Government be bent on ensure that we get a humanitarian pause so that we can get far more supply into Gaza , and , on the back of that , a sustainable ceasefire . as I say in answer to the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , we need a pause in order to get aid and support in and the hostage out . accord to the UN World Food Programme , over half a million Palestinians in Gaza be starve . a famine be imminent . allegation against 12 United Nations Relief and Works Agency staff be rightly be investigate , but cut aid to UNRWA entirely be disproportionate and punitive . have the Minister even consider the consequence of those cut on woman , baby and the seriously injure , and do he understand that they would breach the measure issue by the International Court of Justice to ensure that aid flow into Gaza ? as I have set out to the House repeatedly , we be do everything we can , along with other , to ensure that vital supply get into Gaza , for the very reason that the hon . Lady set out . on UNRWA , it would be impossible for any of we to continue business as usual , give the appalling event outline over the weekend . that be why we have make it clear that we will not produce further finance until we be satisfied that those matter have be address . with regard to what we be seek to do through UNRWA now , we have provide additional funding in the past , and that will ensure that aid and vital supply get into Gaza . the Government have consistently repeat their commitment to a two - state solution , and that be right , but for 30 year Israel have deliberately undermine that through the settlement of the west bank , in contravention of international law . now Netanyahu have come clean and rule out a two - state solution , so do the Minister agree that , if the UK ' s policy be to be see as anything more than empty word , we need to demonstrate our commitment to a viable palestinian state by recognise it and by upgrade current Government advice against trade with the illegal settlement to a full embargo ? the Government ' s position on the issue of illegal settlement be absolutely clear . in respect of the two - state solution , I would point out to the hon . gentleman that progress have be make previously , in particular after grievous act of terrible conflict and terrorism ; that be when the big leap forward towards a resolution of this desperate problem have be make . we hope that on the back of the horrendous event that have take place on 7 October and since , additional progress can be make as soon as the political track can be restart . the Palestinian Authority ' s grip on security control across the west bank have be push out by the malevolent force of Hamas , palestinian Islamic Jihad and local terror group fund by Iran . be it not the case that unilateral recognition of a palestinian state now would risk equip those dangerous actor with the trimming and capability of a state ? the british Government have always be clear that we intend to recognise a palestinian state when the timing be right . my right hon . and learn Friend will have hear the comment that the Foreign Secretary make last night , which in no way deviate from that policy ; the Foreign Secretary be point out how important it be to ensure that people can see that when a political track get go , real progress can be make . if we can not have a ceasefire , a humanitarian pause would of course be very welcome , but it will only be of any use if we can get the aid that be so urgently require into Gaza . what be the Government do to overcome what the Foreign Secretary have describe as the " ludicrous " check regime put in place by the Israelis , and what more can we do to stop or avoid crowd of Israelis from gather at crossing into Gaza , aim to prevent aid from enter , and so obviate a famine ? on my right hon . friend ' s second point , I can assure he that we be in regular touch with all the relevant authority to try to ensure that do not hinder the entry of aid . on his first point , we should all be aware that the issue be not that there be not enough aid in the region , but that it be not get in . that be why the Government , under the Prime Minister ' s specific instruction , have be investigate how to get aid in through all mean , include from the sea and from a naval corridor . it be really disturbing that BBC Online be report that the Foreign Secretary have change the UK Government ' s approach on recognition of a palestinian state . do the Minister agree that bring forward and accelerate unilateral recognition of a palestinian state would be to reward Hamas ' s atrocity ? my right hon . friend will be aware that there be no question of reward Hamas for the appalling act they perpetrate in a pogrom on 7 October . the point that the Foreign Secretary have be make be that we must give the people of the west bank and Gaza a credible route to a palestinian state and a new future , but we must do so when the time be right . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister will know that there be rise anger in the region about the desperate situation in Gaza , which make a ceasefire much hard to achieve . More people be now die of hunger and thirst than from bomb and bullet . he say yesterday that the UK be pause funding to UNRWA , not cut it , but give its critical role , will he reassure we that nothing will disrupt the supply of aid — not just into Gaza , but through Gaza — now and in the month ahead ? he be right that these be serious allegation and we should be robust about how UK aid money be spend , but it would be unconscionable if we allow anything to stand in the way of UK aid reach those child right now . will he promise that the UK will move heaven and earth to get that aid to they ? the shadow Minister for development be absolutely right about the balance that have to be strike . of course , we need to investigate rapidly the very serious allegation that have be make against UNRWA , but the asset we use for get aid and support into Gaza depend on the asset that UNRWA own — warehouse , vehicle and the other distribution mechanism . as such , we need that inquiry to be complete as rapidly as possible . in the meanwhile , Britain be not intend to give any further support to UNRWA in this financial year ; in the next financial year we will consider the position in precisely the way the shadow Minister set out . West Philippine Sea whether he be take diplomatic step to help reduce the risk of conflict in the West Philippine sea . the UK be commit to the primacy of the United Nations convention on the law of the sea , and to freedom of navigation and overflight . we oppose any action that raise tension , or the risk of miscalculation , in the South China sea . the Foreign Secretary speak to his philippino counterpart in December , and the fcdo issue a statement on 11 December , condemn chinese unsafe and escalatory action against the Philippines . I declare an interest , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the Philippines . the Minister be no doubt aware of a large number of video post on YouTube and other outlet , show chinese gunboat ram and victimise philippine fisherman in the West Philippine sea . this be a vital industry for the economy of the Philippines , which , as she know , be one of our key strategic partner in the region . what discussion have she have with her chinese counterpart to stop those unprovoked attack and allow those peaceful fisherman simply to go about earn a livelihood to support their family ? I be in Vietnam in October , speak at the South China sea conference , and I set out very clearly the UK ' s position and raise the serious risk , which my hon . friend highlight , pose by these instance of unsafe conduct against Philippino fishing vessel . the UK have provide £ 6 . 5 million in funding to support regional partner through an enhance programme of maritime security capacity building in south - east Asia , which include training on the law of the sea , and we continue to provide that support to help maintain that free and open Pacific . I thank the Minister for that response . China be quite clearly a thuggish country ; a bully country that think it can step upon anybody . they have an insatiable demand and appetite for everybody else ' s resource . when will the time come that China will understand that they can not bully the wee person — that we will stand with that wee person against they ? the hon . Gentleman set out a really important position , and we want to continue to support and work closely with the Philippines . I be able to co - chair the first UK - Philippines strategic dialogue in November , where we be continue to work with the Philippines across a number of front on how we can support they to ensure that they can sustain their agency and present themselves the position , as he highlight , of want to be able to use their waterway freely and unencumbered . palestinian State : Recognition what recent discussion he have have with his israeli counterpart on Israel ' s political objective in Gaza . what plan the Government have to recognise a palestinian state . what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of the recognition of a palestinian state . what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of the recognition of a palestinian state . we be clear that for a peaceful solution to this conflict there must be a political horizon towards a two - state solution . Britain will recognise a palestinian state at a time when it well serve the objective of peace . bilateral recognition alone can not end the occupation . give the evidence of war crime and crime against humanity commit by Israel , and now recognition by the International Court of Justice of the risk of genocide be commit by Israel , have the UK Government seek to ascertain what the israeli military objective be in Gaza , and do the Minister agree with the motion table by the Scottish National party at the Council of Europe last week , support by nine nation and 20 member , that an immediate ceasefire and a resettlement scheme for those bomb out of Gaza by Israel be absolutely essential ? I have not see the motion table by the SNP — and I probably would not agree with it if I have . we be always focused on address the point that the hon . Lady have make . when it come to the International Court of Justice , and indeed international humanitarian law , the Government ' s view be not the same as hers , but she may rest assure that we keep these thing under very close review . there be now a live ongoing investigation by the ICJ into genocide in Gaza . give the British Government ' s reluctance thus far to recognise the state of Palestine , do the Minister not understand that failure to do so will soon result in the UK Government just recognise a cemetery ? the Government ' s position — and indeed , I believe , the position of those on the Opposition Front Bench — have always be clear : we should recognise the state of Palestine when the time be right . the Foreign Secretary last night add some further word to that commitment , but that be the commitment of the British Government . last night the Foreign Secretary indicate that the UK Government will consider recognise the palestinian state in order " to give the palestinian people a political horizon so that they can see that there be go to be irreversible progress to a two - state solution " . can the Minister explain how that be possible when both the Israeli National Security Minister and the Finance Minister have advocate use the ongoing war as an opportunity to permanently resettle Palestinians from Gaza and establish israeli settlement there , and the israeli Prime Minister have openly say he be proud to have prevent the establishment of a palestinian state ? the Foreign Secretary be make it clear that we need a credible route to a palestinian state and the offer of a new future . it be very important to lift people ' s eye to the possibility once a political track be establish . I point out to the hon . gentleman that progress have be make . progress that be make at Oslo take place on the back of appalling event when people reach for a political solution . the same be true of what follow the second intifada . the aim of the British Government be to get a sustainable ceasefire and move to that political track . my right hon . friend ' s comment about a big leap forward be noble — I recognise that — but as long as Hamas , who believe not in a two - state solution but in kill and rape Jews , cle on in Gaza ; as Fatah be barely able to control the west bank ; and as Israel be still in trauma , still try to get 130 hostage , include baby , back from Gaza , what do he think that talk about early recognition of palestinian statehood can achieve ? I recognise the voracity of what my right hon . Friend say , but there be no change in the policy . he be right that Hamas must agree to the release of all hostage , that Hamas can no long be in charge of Gaza , and that we need an agreement to provide governance , service and security there , which will involve the Palestinian Authority . the Foreign Secretary , in his meeting with President Abbas last week , seek to advance that agenda . on Sunday , a third of Knesset Members attend a conference call for the return of settlement to Gaza and to the north of the occupy west bank . some of those member have also ask for a voluntary migration of Palestinians from Gaza , with Israel take over control . do the Minister agree that that be not in the good interest of Israel and that there should be a return to the pre - 1967 border , with both country work together to maintain peace in the interest of their citizen ? yes , I do . the only viable long - term pathway be a two - state solution base on 1967 line , with Jerusalem as a share capital , that guarantee security and stability for both Israelis and Palestinians . surely the only political objective in Gaza be inextricably link to the security objective , because the grim reality be that Hamas do not seek a ceasefire , and Israel can not be reasonably expect to pursue one with a group who actively seek its destruction , not least the commitment make by a senior Hamas official , Ghazi Hamad , who recently say : " we must teach Israel a lesson , and we will do this again and again " , and that the 7 October massacre be " just the first time , and there will be a second , a third , a fourth . " the only political solution must be the elimination of Hamas and the release of the hostage . that be why the Government have make it clear that call for a ceasefire on its own will simply not work . first , Israel absolutely have the right of self - defence , to address and deal with the cause of the terrible event of 7 October . secondly , Hamas have make it absolutely clear that they do not want a ceasefire ; they want to replicate the event that take place on 7 October . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . for a decade now , the Labour party have support palestinian recognition . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) have say , " statehood be not in the gift of a neighbour . it be the inalienable right of the palestinian people . " I welcome the Foreign Secretary adopt that position and reject the notion that recognition can only follow the conclusion of negotiation . after the unacceptable comment by Prime Minister Netanyahu , do the Prime Minister agree that no country have a veto over the UK ' s decision to recognise Palestine ? I can tell the shadow Foreign Secretary that we will pursue the policy that we think be right . the Foreign Secretary set out clearly in his remark last night the importance of a credible route to a palestinian state and a new future . in respect of the conversation that the Foreign Secretary will have have last week with Prime Minister Netanyahu , I can not trade the detail across the House , but I can tell the right hon . Gentleman that the Foreign Secretary will have represent the british position with Prime Minister Netanyahu , whom he know very well , with great accuracy . I call the SNP spokesperson . palestinian recognition be an inalienable right , not a privilege to be confer by other . although I be pleased to hear the Foreign Secretary say last night that the UK , " with ally , will look at the issue of recognise a palestinian state " , I feel we have be here before , most notably in 2014 . give Netanyahu ' s categorical rejection of a palestinian state , what be the next step ? when will we hear about they , and how confident can we be that we will not be sit here in another 10 year , wish we have act to prevent a genocide ? it be not easy to sustain the view that we have be here before — at least not to this extent . the british Government ' s policy have be clear on the recognition of the state of Palestine . we be work extremely hard in the region and more widely internationally to secure a political track . the hon . Gentleman will recognise that that will be in the mix once that political track be able to start . climate Change Adaptation what step his Department be take to support develop country with climate change adaptation . we be committed to spend £ 1 . 5 billion on climate adaptation by 2025 . extreme weather be already cause huge devastation , especially in the poor community across the world , who be also the least likely to find investor or to borrow from global financial institution . at COP28 there be a breakthrough , and a loss and damage fund have finally be establish . however , the money for the UK ' s contribution will come from pre - exist climate finance commitment and the development budget . should the Government , in the spirit of what the loss and damage fund represent , not establish a new , ringfenced loss and damage budget that be not take from other budget ? we do support set up the loss and damage fund at COP28 and we contribute specifically towards it . however , it be important that loss and damage do not draw from the same donor and the same official development assistance budget as other development . it have to be different . it be because the UAE , as a non - traditional donor , put in $ 100 million to that fund that Britain be willing to support it , but we need new and different donor and new and different source of fund . I welcome the extremely important work the Government be do in protect vulnerable community around the world . will the Minister confirm to I that the £ 3 billion that the Government have commit for save nature will be use on some of the very vulnerable habitat site and animal around the world , such as those Environmental Audit Committee see on a recent visit to Antarctica ? will he particularly think about whale , fur seal and of course the emperor penguin ? I will think about all the mammal my hon . friend have mention . I can assure he that our commitment be to biodiversity and to nature . we recognise the great importance of the work be do in the Antarctic , and indeed the contribution that he make to that . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . from the flood to the fire , from melt ice sheet to ocean heat , the climate crisis be reach a tipping point . labour have a plan at home : double onshore wind , treble solar and end new oil and gas licence in the North sea . Labour have a plan internationally : a clean power alliance of developed and develop country to drive forward the transition . be it not the truth that the Government have no plan and have squander Britain ' s climate reputation to wage culture war at home ? the reason the Government be able to reduce the size of electricity bill for hard - work family be precisely because we be meet our target and will meet our international commitment . Britain ' s international target and commitment be enshrine in law as a result of the activity of this House . internationally we be committed , as the right hon . Gentleman know and as be set out to the House towards the end of last year , to spend £ 11 . 6 billion on ensure that we meet our climate target and produce climate finance . I would argue that that figure will be near £ 16 billion by 2026 . debt Reduction in the Developing World whether he have have recent discussion with his international counterpart on a strategy to reduce debt in the develop world . the Government recently set out our commitment on develop country debt in our international development White Paper . the main mechanism to tackle the debt crisis , the common framework for debt treatment , be fail due to the low level of participation by private creditor who own around 40 % of low - income country debt . do the Minister agree that there be strategic need for the United Kingdom to take debt reduction seriously and change its approach , give the crisis in Africa and the grow role of China and Russia in the develop world ? the hon . Lady be right to point to the considerable difficulty that country be find . some 15 % of low - income country be in debt distress , and 45 % be at high risk of that . the African Development Bank say that debt repayment in 2024 be likely to be six time the level of 2021 . that be why Britain be work with other creditor to secure debt restructuring , most often through the G20 common framework , but also through the Paris Club . Middle East : Conflict Prevention what recent step he have take to help prevent an escalation of conflict in the middle east . the Government be engage extensively to prevent an escalation of conflict in the middle east . the Prime Minister speak to President Biden last week about that specific issue . I think we can all understand the anger towards Israel for the way it be systematically demolish Gaza and needlessly kill so many of the people , as well as the need for it to be properly hold to account . do the Minister recognise that we must do everything to protect against other join the conflict , and that activity such as those against the Houthis must also be proportionate and accompany by more diplomatic work across the region to stop wholesale killing ? the hon . Gentleman be right to make clear that all of we seek that there should not be an escalation of this conflict in the middle east . that be why right at the start Britain move military asset to the eastern end of the Mediterranean . more recently , as he allude to , we be express strong support for freedom of navigation on the high sea , stop attack by the Houthis . we be degrade their capacity to carry out their attack , and have make clear that we will not accept that challenge to international freedom of the sea . one problem with the middle east be the sense of hopelessness among the palestinian people , which be fuel terrorist outrage . what step can the Government take with our american friend to try to put pressure on the israeli state to stop the imposition of new settlement in the west bank , so that we can gradually reduce tension in the whole region ? be that not the way forward ? we have make it clear that the settlement be illegal and should not have go ahead and should not go ahead . on the wide point , we be work closely with our american friend and other through the superb diplomatic network that Britain possess , to try to lift people ' s eye and move to the day after , when a political track can start . that be the answer to my right hon . friend ' s question — the political track , which can then start to offer hope in resolve this dreadful and long - stand problem . I call the shadow Minister . today the middle east be in danger of see a major escalation of conflict , and whether it be in Gaza , the Red sea , Lebanon , Iraq , Syria or Jordan , we be see aggression . if there be a common denominator in those conflict , it be the malign influence of Iran , usually through its proxy . what be the Government do to disrupt and stop the disruptive activity of Iran ? my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have a meeting recently with the iranian Foreign Minister to set out Britain ' s view of and requirement from the relationship with Iran , and I think that be a most useful contact to have . the Foreign Secretary be in the region today , try to ensure that the very point behind this question be accept and honour . we be work extensively with Jordan , Egypt , Qatar , Israel , Saudi Arabia and America . those discussion be ongoing , and will address the point that the hon . Gentleman have raise . Ukraine what assessment he have make of the impact of the UK ' s non - military support to Ukraine over winter 2023 - 24 on the humanitarian situation in that country . what recent diplomatic support he have provide to Ukraine . what discussion he have have with his international counterpart on maintain support for Ukraine . what recent discussion he have have with his international counterpart on the war in Ukraine . since February 2020 the UK have commit £ 357 million of humanitarian assistance to Ukraine . in response to winter we scale up humanitarian support with additional funding to provide cash assistance , insulation , and support for energy and heating . the Foreign Secretary ' s first overseas visit be to Ukraine . he continue to set out the UK ambition to international partner and do so in November during NATO and OSCE gathering , and most recently at Davos , where he meet Foreign Minister Kuleba . Tim Bamford , our local councillor for Denby Dale , have devote his own time and expense to make several potentially dangerous excursion , drive a truck to deliver essential humanitarian aid to war - tear Ukraine alongside volunteer from the Yorkshire Aid Convoy . will the Minister join I in thank Tim — who be sit in the Public Gallery — and all the fantastic team at the Yorkshire Aid Convoy for everything that they be do to help the ukrainian people , and wish they a safe journey for their next trip in March ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in thank Tim and Tina Bamford , both of whom be in the Public Gallery . the response of the british people to the tragedy in Ukraine have be remarkable and hugely generous , and we salute the courage and generosity of spirit show by the commendable action of the Yorkshire Aid Convoy . there be many billion of russian asset freeze by western nation , and there be a strong moral case for Ukraine to use those asset to repel Russia ' s aggression and rebuild its own economy . what progress have the Department make in talk to other nation to make that a reality ? I agree that there be a strong moral case for use russian asset to repair the damage that Russia have work on Ukraine . we be clear about the fact that Russia should pay , and we continue to assess what legal path there might be to achieve that end . the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees recently say : " I think the big difference from last year to this year be that this year … there be somehow a trend towards get use to ukrainian suffering . " it be more than 200 day since the opposition table a motion necessitating Government legislation to bring about the full seizure and repurposing of russian state asset within 90 day , but no plan have yet be forthcoming . why be the Government so out of step with our ally and partner in this regard ? we be not out of step ; we be lead the pack , and have be do so for the last two year . our resolve be show by our own financial commitment but also by our permanent commitment to the UK - Ukraine relationship , which be demonstrate when the Prime Minister sign the UK - Ukraine agreement on security co - operation at the start of the year . we be in it for the long haul . tomorrow Jens Stoltenberg , the Secretary - General of NATO , will meet representative of the Heritage Foundation , a Republican - lean think - tank . he will meet ally of former President Trump in an effort to unlock $ 60 billion of funding for Ukraine . what effort be the Government make to persuade Trump ' s ally , and what contingency planning be they do with our european ally for a scenario in which Trump and his ally be not persuade ? minister engage constantly with counterpart around the world , include those in the US . when it come to the NATO response , we have see NATO expand and grow in the last two year . Putin think it be weak , but it be now big and strong than it be in 2022 . I call the SNP spokesperson . the International Monetary Fund estimate that Ukraine need $ 37 billion this year just to manage the book . there be a special European Council meeting on Thursday to sign off a package of € 50 billion in aid to Ukraine . the UK Government have be part of that coalition , so can the Minister assure we that Ukraine fatigue will not set in here ? there be back across the House for the continuation of these supportive effort , and surely the most effective way to get aid to Ukraine be to transfer the seized russian asset to finance for Ukraine ' s reconstruction . I assure the hon . Gentleman that we feel no fatigue when it come to our Ukraine policy . we have exceed last year ' s commitment in term of lethal aid , and we will be contribute a huge amount of other aid and economic support . since 2022 , our total humanitarian , economic and military support have rise to more than £ 12 billion , which I think demonstrate that our resolve be unflagge . I share the concern of the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) about the attitude towards the Ukraine fight , and indeed towards NATO , of certain element on the american political scene . will our Foreign Office team do everything in their power to impress on our american ally that the peace of Europe depend on unquestionable american support for the NATO alliance in the future , just as it do in the past ? we continue to make that point to all our interlocutor . I should also say that we continue to make the point to all NATO member state that invest 2 % of gdp in defence expenditure be a condition of membership . I meet the Leeds ukrainian community in my constituency this weekend to hear about the desperate need of war - tear ukrainian citizen . with the hungarian leader Viktor Orb á n continue to veto the EU ' s £ 50 billion aid package to Ukraine , what diplomatic step be the Minister take to encourage Hungary to play its part in support Ukraine ' s fight for freedom ? we be very active in our diplomacy with Hungary and neighbouring state . I be actually in Slovakia last week , talk about a similar set of issue . diplomacy do matter and our judgment be that , in the end , Mr Orb á n will do the right thing . Iran and Pakistan what recent discussion he have have with his international counterpart on the state of relation between Iran and Pakistan . the Foreign Secretary have make it clear to his iranian counterpart that Iran must stop use regional instability as cover to act recklessly . he and Lord Ahmad have also underline to Pakistan ' s Foreign Minister the importance of avoid further escalation . we welcome Iran and Pakistan ' s subsequent commitment to dialogue in a joint statement release on 22 January , confirm that ambassador will return to post , and we continue to monitor the situation . as the Minister say , diplomatic effort have ease tension follow the exchange of missile early this month . however , the Minister will be aware that , over the weekend , iranian gunman murder nine Pakistanis in the iranian city of Saravan . the fact that both country have launch air strike against each other indicate how fragile the situation be in the middle east , and how interconnect act of war and violence be across the whole region . how will the british Government ensure that their own action do not escalate tension ? as I say , Iran must stop use regional instability as cover to carry out its reckless act . we recognise that it bear responsibility for any further escalation , and we be look at all the tool that we have to bear down on the iranian regime , include sanction . eritrea : Human Rights what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the human right situation in Eritrea . we continue to press Eritrea bilaterally and at the UN Human Rights Council to end human right violation . it may come as a surprise to the House to hear that Eritrea be an elect member of the UN Human Rights Council . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Eritrea , I often hear the country describe as the North Korea of Africa . young people be conscript indefinitely , and critic of the regime be arbitrarily detain and disappear . do the Minister agree that that perhaps explain why over 90 % of asylum claim from Eritreans in the UK be grant by the Home Office ? what more can the Government do to take step to ensure an end to human right abuse in Eritrea and elsewhere in the horn of Africa , which be push factor behind irregular arrival in the UK ? I think the hon . Gentleman pull his punch ; it be bad than he say . Eritrea rank towards the bottom of the world press freedom index . we urge Eritrea to allow the UN special rapporteur for human right access to the country , and we also seek the full withdrawal of eritrean troop from northern Ethiopia , in accordance with the Pretoria peace agreement . we must not forget the abuse that be happen in neighbour Sudan . over 7 million people have be internally displace , with 20 million in desperate need of humanitarian aid . last night , the International Criminal Court prosecutor tell the UN Security Council that there be reasonable ground to believe that both the Sudan armed force and the rapid support force be commit atrocious crime in Darfur . what hope do the Minister have that we can end the impunity , stop the rape , murder and pillage , and bring peace to the people of Sudan ? we be call for an immediate ceasefire . there be talk in Addis before Christmas . we seek progress through the United Nations , where we hold the pen on Sudan , and also through the Troika , the Intergovernmental Authority on Development and the African Union . we be do everything we can to end the appalling situation in Sudan , which my right hon . friend have just describe with great eloquence . Afghanistan : Hazara Community what discussion he have have with his international counterpart on the situation of the Hazara community in Afghanistan . the UK work closely with the international community include the G7 and G20 and through the UN to protect the human right of all of Afghanistan ' s people and to co - ordinate a consistent international response . in December my colleague the Minister for South Asia in the other place raise the recent attack on Hazaras with the UN assistance mission in Afghanistan . last week the hon . member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) and I meet member of our respective Hazara community . they also regularly attend the all - party parliamentary group on Hazaras , which be chair by the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) . my concern be that the kidnap , rape and persecution that the Taliban regularly use against the Hazara woman and girl largely go unreported due to a lack of diplomacy or to journalist be unable to access the region . would the Minister or a member of her team be prepared to meet those whose family be still strand in the region and be subject to what be essentially the ethnic cleansing of the Hazara people ? the hon . Lady set out some of the shocking issue that we know about . indeed , Daesh claim responsibility for the November attack and we be continue to see these challenge . I will happily take back her question to my colleague , and I be sure that he will be happy to meet they . I call shadow Minister Catherine West . since the summer of 2021 , when the hope and dream of so many woman and girl in Afghanistan be snuff out , we have be struggle to get a strategy together . for 20 year the UK , international partner and Afghans themselves fight for a more hopeful future for woman and girl . will the Minister outline what step be be take with international partner to develop a sustained strategy for work in the region so that we can regain a sense of hope for the 40 million Afghans leave behind to a future devoid of opportunity ? the hon . Lady highlight the frustration that we all feel . we be work closely with international partner at a number of level to ensure credible monitoring not only of the violence and threat against religious minority but of the challenge for woman and girl across the piece . we co - sponsor a Human Rights Council resolution extend the mandate of the UN special rapporteur to monitor and report on the human right situation , to try to make decision together on how to tackle it . China : diplomatic relationship what recent assessment he have make of the strength of the UK ' s diplomatic relationship with China . the Government set out their approach to China in the integrated review refresh last year . we must continue to engage with China to work towards open , constructive and stable relation to manage disagreement , defend our freedom and co - operate where our interest align . the Foreign Secretary speak with China ' s Foreign Minister Wang Yi on 5 December in pursuit of those objective . the result of economic modelling from the Rhodium Group , the RAND Corporation and , early this month , Bloomberg on the impact on global GDP of either an economic blockade by China on Taiwan or a full - scale invasion , be horrify . be I right that the Government have do their own economic modelling for both those scenario ? if so , will the Minister publish it ? the hon . Gentleman highlight the importance of understanding and planning for such economic coercion . this be an area of policy that sit within my portfolio in the fcdo . across Government , we currently have a lot of focus on think about how we can build resilience in UK interest and support partner . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Government be pursue vital british national interest priority . we be support Ukraine , and the Prime Minster have announce a further package of military support . we support Israel ' s right to self - defence and be work towards a sustainable ceasefire and tackle the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . we continue strongly to support freedom of navigation on the high sea and to seek to make progress on Sudan . we be implement the international development White Paper , which have be well receive around the world . I continue to deputise for the Foreign Secretary in this House and regularly seek to keep the House update . the United Nations special rapporteur on the right to food , Michael Fakhri , say at the weekend that more than 2 million people in Gaza be face " inevitable famine " . now that the Government have opt to halt funding to the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees , how do they intend to ensure that the urgently need humanitarian aid — as call for in the International Court of Justice ruling last week and which be central to the ruling — will continue to be deliver to the innocent man , woman and child in Gaza , who must have a right to food ? as I set out , the Government ' s high immediate priority be to ensure that aid and humanitarian support get into Gaza . we be relentlessly pursue that objective . I have set out where we be on UNRWA , but there be no immediate effect on the food that it seek to deliver in Gaza today . I understand that my noble Friend the Foreign Secretary will shortly be visit India , our friend and key ally in the region . will the Minister set out what the Foreign Secretary will be aim to achieve , particularly at a time when we be negotiate a free trade deal and building on the co - operation we already have ? although I can not comment in detail on future ministerial plan , I assure my hon . friend that the UK Government have a broad and deep partnership with the Government of India . the Foreign Secretary have ambition to far strengthen that relationship through trade and wide people - to - people relationship in defence , science and technology . on 13 November , in his first bilateral meeting , the Foreign Secretary discuss some of these issue with External Affairs Minister Jaishankar . I call the shadow Minister . access to critical mineral be vital as we face a climate and energy crisis , but this Government have repeatedly disregard Latin America and ignore its potential . will the Minister commit to work with country such as Chile , Brazil , Peru and Mexico to deliver these essential supply for a green energy transition ? both side of the House agree that this be an important issue , and I can assure the hon . Lady that we be work very hard . I have raise the importance of critical mineral on my visit to all those country , and not least on my recent visit to Bolivia . by any measure our world be become more dangerous , not less . I very much welcome Britain ' s leadership and rekindle engagement on the international stage , not least in Ukraine and the middle east . do the Minister agree that our foreign policy , our economy and , indeed , our security be interdependently relate ? give the deteriorate threat picture , would he like to see an increase in our defence posture ? my right hon . friend , the former Chairman of the Defence Committee , be absolutely right to focus on these threat . the Foreign Secretary recently say that all the light on the global dashboard be flash red . the Government know that the first duty of the state be to defend and protect its citizen from external aggression , and my right hon . friend may rest assure that that will continue to be our high priority . tension be soar across the middle east after Washington vow to respond to the drone attack by Iran - back militant that kill three american soldier . do the Minister share my concern that we may be drag into another regional war at the Americans ' demand ? the American Government and the British Government have make it absolutely clear that they do not wish to see this conflict escalate more widely . equally , the hon . Gentleman will accept that no country can accept with equanimity the appalling death of those american soldier . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . british citizen Vladimir Kara - Murza have be move from a siberian prison to an unknown location , have endure four month of isolation . why ? because his voice of freedom be such a threat to Putin . Vladimir have be poison twice and , under russian law , should not even be in prison . what progress have be make on locate Vladimir and get he release , so that we do not see he die in prison ? what have we do to appoint a lead director for arbitrary detention ? as the Foreign Secretary have say , we be deeply concerned about the report that Mr Kara - Murza have be move from the penal colony in Omsk to an unknown location . we be urgently follow up to ascertain his whereabouts . of course , minister have consistently condemn his politically motivated conviction and have call for his release , both publicly and privately . we will continue to do that at every opportunity . we have sanction 13 individual in response to this case . I have meet Mrs Kara - Murza and , of course , the Foreign Secretary have offer to meet she to discuss the case with official in due course . yesterday , as the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) allude to , an ICC prosecutor say that there be " ground to believe " that both the sudanese army and the Rapid Support Forces be commit war crime in Darfur . will the Minister outline what diplomatic step the Department be take to help to stop the violence ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right in her analysis of what be happen in Sudan — throughout Sudan , and in particular in Darfur — where there be clear evidence of crime against humanity be commit . Britain hold the pen at the United Nations , as I say early to my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) . we work through regional and international alliance . we be clear that Sudan need a comprehensive ceasefire and then movement back on to a political track , where former Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok will play an increasingly important role . today be World Neglected Tropical Diseases Day and as I be sure the Minister be well aware , malaria affect more than 250 million people every year and cause the death of a child every minute . give the news that the British - back R21 vaccination have gain pre - qualification at the World Health Organisation , what commitment will my right hon . friend give towards further support , include through the next replenishment of Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance ? last week , I have the opportunity to visit the Jenner Institute at Oxford to see the remarkable people who make that progress . every day , malaria kill entirely unnecessarily more than 1 , 000 child under five and pregnant woman . thank to that brilliant british invention and technology , I hope very much that we will be able to make malaria history within the foreseeable future . the decision to pull funding from UNRWA , the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , the day after the International Court of Justice call for increase aid to get into Gaza have be brand reckless by 21 aid agency , include Oxfam . what assessment have the Government make of the number of additional Palestinians now at risk of death from disease or starvation as a result of pull that funding ? the Government have be very clear about the position with UNRWA . we can not overlook the appalling event that have be report , but we be seek to ensure that they be properly investigate . Britain have no additional funding plan for this financial year . we have already fund UNRWA , as have other , so I have no doubt that UNRWA ' s support , get food to those who desperately need it , will continue , but we can not ignore the information that be bring to our attention . I spend yesterday with NATO . one significant concern express to I be the acute need for the US to fulfil its commitment to Ukraine in 2024 . ahead of the Washington summit , will the Minister assure I that every effort will be take to leverage political pressure on our ally and to secure the necessary support , for which we be very grateful ? on the road to Washington , we continue to make that point . the US will continue to be an integral part of european security , as will other european member state of NATO , which should ensure that they commit to their equal and require expenditure of 2 % . the Minister have be clear about the extremely dangerous situation in Sudan . I have a number of constituent still wait for the UK Government to process their application for their family member to come to safety here , and hamper by the inability to travel over international border . what conversation have he have with his counterpart in neighbouring country such as Egypt to allow facilitation of the movement of people through there out of the danger in Sudan to safety in the UK ? we talk continually to the surround country and have give specific support to Chad in deal with people come over the border . the situation in Sudan that the hon . Lady describe be absolutely appalling , with nearly 18 million people urgently need food . if she wish to discuss her specific case with I and the Foreign Office , we should do so straight after Question Time . this year mark the 120th anniversary of the signing of the entente cordiale with France , 80 year since D - day and 30 year since the opening of the Channel tunnel . do my right hon . friend agree that this be an incredibly important moment to reinvigorate that important bilateral relationship ? my right hon . friend will have see the stratospheric improvement in relation with France and its President that have take place under our right hon . friend the Prime Minister . he and I be celebrate 120 year of the entente cordiale at the french residence last week . I have no doubt that that relationship , especially now , be in excellent condition . woman be unequally affect in conflict . we have hear account of horrific rape perpetrate by Hamas , of woman assume heavy care responsibility due to fail medical infrastructure in Gaza , and of woman be traffic out of Nigeria , to name three recent example . will the Minister comment on the Department ' s work to provide a well future for woman in conflict zone ? the hon . Lady have raise a most important matter . woman bear the brunt of poverty , conflict and starvation . that be why the British Government have make it clear , particularly in the White Paper , that this matter remain a top priority . the White Paper announce £ 38 million of additional spending to support woman ' s right organisation . as we know , woman ' s right be under threat all around the world , and we be do everything we can to support girl and woman . as new heartbreaking testimony of Hamas ' s use of sexual violence and rape come to light from survivor of the 7 October attack , what assessment have my right hon . Friend make of the silence of many international organisation , such as the International Red Cross , on that appalling issue ? I hope that my hon . friend will draw strength and satisfaction from the fact that the british Government be not silent on that very important matter . I be sure that the Minister be as shocked as I be by Venezuela ' s action towards Guyana last year . will he update the House , and I — I have guyanese heritage — on what step the Government be take to uphold Guyana ' s sovereignty ? I thank the hon . member for that question on an important subject close to the heart of several people in the Chamber . I assure she that there be ongoing engagement with , of course , President Ali in Guyana , but also all the regional player . I have personally have conversation with Brazil , Colombia , the Commonwealth and the United States to keep the focus on that area , and Maduro ' s plan at bay . what assessment have the Government make of the threat to the future of the baltic state if Putin be see to succeed in seize territory permanently from Ukraine ? the baltic state be on the frontline , and we therefore take great pride in the enhance forward presence in the baltic state , which include our magnificent man and woman in Tapa . that be part of our endure physical presence to ensure that NATO have security on the ground . the matter be sharply in focus . as the death toll rise in Gaza , so do the misery of woman and girl in the occupy territory . I be increasingly concerned that aid be not get to they . the United Nations say that there be a chronic aid access problem , and that woman be have caesarean section without anaesthetic . what be go on ? be the aid not get to they ? what step be the Department take to ensure that it do ? tackle this be Britain ' s central aim ; the aim be to get humanitarian aid into Gaza , but also to ensure that there be a plan on the west bank to take forward a political initiative . everything that we be do be bent on try to get the aid that be in the region through the narrow entrance into Gaza . we will continue to do that . the Minister have say several time in the last few day that the Government ' s decision to suspend funding for UNRWA should not affect that agency ' s ability to deliver immediate aid in the region . if it transpire in the day and week ahead that the opposite be the case and the agency be be compromise , will the Government immediately review their decision ? yesterday , I speak to the head of UNRWA , Philippe Lazzarini . I make the point that it be essential that his review — which of course he be not conduct ; the UN be conduct it — be complete as fast as possible for the reason the hon . Gentleman set out . I be reasonably confident that it can be conduct within the next two month , and the British Government be watch this carefully . will the Minister confirm whether the Government have undertake any further military action in Yemen since 11 January ? if so , will he clarify whether the Government ' s long - term plan include commit to sustained military action in one of the poor country of the world ? we be careful to ensure that our response to the Houthis in Yemen be proportionate and right . we be conscious of the importance of get food into Yemen to feed people who be starve . that process be hinder by the grossly irresponsible act of the Houthi terrorist . Yasin Malik , a political leader of the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front , be give a life sentence in 2022 . the indian authority appeal that sentence last year , seek the death penalty , and the judgment be due on 14 February . give the UK ' s long - stand opposition to the death penalty , what discussion have the Minister have with the indian authority about this important case ? we always continue to make it clear that we disagree with the death penalty . my colleague the Minister for South Asia raise this issue most recently on 10 January , and we continue to highlight it . I know that he would be happy to discuss the case with the hon . Lady , if she wish . the Foreign Office record over 500 death of UK national in Thailand in 2022 , some 135 of which be of undetermined cause . in 2022 and the 10 year before then , no murder be record of UK national in Thailand . my constituent ' s son be murder in Thailand in 2019 . do the Minister still maintain that UK national do not get murder in Thailand ? we work closely with Thailand , and our official in the country , lead by our ambassador , do a great deal of work around these difficult issue when they arise . I have pick up some of the consular case myself . if there be specific issue that the hon . Gentleman wish to raise , I be happy to meet he to discuss they . I have 10 and 11 - year - old constituent — british citizen — who be stick in the israeli fire zone in southern Lebanon . the Foreign Office be urge they to return to the UK , but as their mother be not a british citizen , the Home Office be prevent that . will the Minister help I to persuade the Home Office to relent on this issue ? I be happy to look at the case that the hon . Gentleman raise immediately after Question Time , if that be convenient to he . the Foreign Secretary be in the region today , not far away from the country that the hon . gentleman mention , and I be sure that we will be able to advance the talk that be go on . Telegraph Media Group : propose Sale to RedBird IMI ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport if she will make a statement on the propose sale of the Telegraph Media Group to RedBird IMI . I be grateful to my hon . friend for table the urgent question for the second time in as many day . this be a media - focus day for I , as I will take the Media Bill through its remain stage straight after the urgent question , so forgive I if one have make I insufficiently prepared for the other , or vice versa . I be in the frustrating circumstance that I can say only what be publicly know and nothing of the specific in answer to question about the ownership of the Telegraph Media Group , which contain two of the world ' s great newspaper — the Sunday Telegraph and the Daily Telegraph — and , in the Spectator , the old survive weekly magazine in the world . as hon . member will be aware , my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have issue a public interest intervention notice in respect of the anticipated acquisition of the group by RB Investco Ltd , far to the notice issue in November in respect of the RedBird IMI medium joint venture , which remain in force . she be lead this process and examine it in great detail and with great care , but it be a quasi - judicial process , involve the Competition and Markets Authority , which look at jurisdictional and competition matter , and Ofcom , which will be report to she on public interest consideration in relation to the medium , expressly accurate presentation of the news and free expression of opinion . both report will be return on 11 March . my right hon . and learn Friend , as a very assiduous and diligent KC , be make sure that I , as Media Minister , be absolutely exclude from the process , because that be what it demand . I be not permit to know about the scrutiny that be under way , or to interfere with it . she be also not permit to take into account any political or presentational concern in her deliberation , and we would not wish to cause there to be any chink of light here that would leave the process open to judicial review . that leave I in an unenviable position : I face understandable expert probe by hon . member , to whom I can offer no answer beyond what be in the public domain . however , this urgent question be as much an opportunity for hon . member to make their concern clear and their view know , as it be an opportunity for I to answer they . so I say : be hear , loud and clear . straight after this urgent question , I will take the Media Bill through its remain stage and make the case for that legislation in broad term . I will argue that a free medium , not interfere with by Government or indeed government , able to articulate and reflect a broad range of view , free to speak and create , and able to project to the world what democracy , a plurality of view and debate truly mean , be something important that we should value . in many respect , it underpin what we mean by a free society . of course , we all know that ; it be something that we repeat , automaton - like , in a way that risk give rise to complacency . however , as I watch the action of authoritarian state in these time of turbulence ; as I see western democracy in a knot of angst over our value ; and as I see our population question , from the safety of these shore , whether our value still matter , I be remind of the need to make that case again and again . I can not speak to the specific media ownership question — I know hon . member will understand that , and will help I keep within the tramline — but I can speak about medium freedom ; the need for medium to be separate from political and Government interference ; the importance of a british voice , domestically and internationally ; and the pride we can feel in medium institution , such as those in the Telegraph Media Group , some of which date back two century and drive change in this nation as profound as the Great Reform Act . to this day , those who write for those institution ask question of we all with a rare inquisitiveness and preoccupation with truth . [ interruption . ] I shall finish shortly . I will be hear — order . please do not tell I what you be go to do . I be in charge of the time . you be way over , and I expect you now to finish quickly . I apologise , Mr Speaker , for over - speaking . I will listen to the point make , in the broad of term , and I suspect that I may agree with many of they . thank you for grant this important urgent question , Mr Speaker . the Minister hit the nail on the head when she say that this be about freedom from Government interference , although it be quite something for we to start this urgent question know that we will get no answer to any of our question . we have a proud tradition of a fiercely independent press in our country — a press who hold we to account in this place , and shine a light on misbehaviour and misdoing here and abroad . yet a paper of record , the Daily Telegraph , and the Spectator , the long - run magazine in the world and my personal podcast of choice , will be purchase by a foreign state . the concern here be about not foreign ownership , but foreign state ownership ; in this situation , we can not separate sheikh and state . those be our concern . more broadly , I worry that we have allow our medium — critical national infrastructure for our democracy — to fall between the crack . our defend Democracy Taskforce look only at electoral concern , and the National Security and Investment Act 2021 deal with 17 sector , none of which be the medium . we therefore have no protection against this sort of situation . I have four question that I hope the Minister will at least attempt to answer — I appreciate the restriction that be in place . first , be there any example from around the world of a nation with differ medium value , to put it politely , acquire the newspaper of another country ? secondly , will the Government commit to a national security investigation of these purchase ? thirdly , do the Government not recognise that their intervention in the United Arab Emirates ' purchase of Vodafone set a precedent allow they to intervene in this case ? finally , will they look either to extend the defend Democracy Taskforce or those 17 sector , to ensure that we can protect our medium ? we be deal with something that will make we vulnerable not for five or 10 year , but for the rest of our life , and we can not afford for our medium to be undermine . I thank my hon . friend for her question . as she be aware , a public interest intervention notice have be issue in this case , which mean that I be not able to speak to a number of the point that will likely be raise . however , power under the Enterprise Act 2002 allow we to look into acquisition of this nature and to examine issue of medium freedom of expression . we also have power under the National Security Act 2023 ; the Cabinet Office have a role there . that will allow the Culture Secretary to look at some of the question that my hon . friend raise . there will now be an investigation by not only the Competition and Markets Authority , but Ofcom , which will look into all these question in great detail . that will allow the Secretary of State to make a judgment on what action she take next . there may potentially be a long investigation , after which she could be offer particular remedy , or could prevent a transaction . however , at this stage , I can not speculate on what action she be likely to take . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be frustrate with the Minister . I want to thank she for her answer , but frankly , it be not an answer . the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , the Chair of the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs , ask perfectly reasonable question , which do not go into the specific and zoom out to the general , yet we still have no answer . a strong and independent free press be a cornerstone of democracy . we have a long history of that in the UK ; the Spectator be the old magazine in the world . it be the responsibility of Government , regardless of their political persuasion or the newspaper under discussion , to safeguard the freedom to scrutinise , to expose wrongdoing and to speak truth to power . we on these Benches recognise the legitimate public interest concern raise over the propose acquisition of the Telegraph Media Group , include about the accurate presentation of news , free expression of opinion in newspaper and the competition issue . I welcome the fact that the Government have ask further question , and I await the conclusion of the investigation by the Competition and Markets Authority and Ofcom in full . but the Telegraph have be up for sale for month — the Secretary of State issue her first public interest intervention notice on 30 November . this process be ongoing . employee at the Telegraph and the Spectator have be leave in limbo , and senior journalist have express significant concern . can the Minister tell the House why the Secretary of State have grant an extension to the deadline by which she expect to receive report from Ofcom and the CMA in relation to the piin ? I be sure she can not , but I be just go to ask anyway . can the Minister tell the House — this be a general one , so maybe she can — whether , in the light of the propose sale , she have any plan to review the exist rule on media ownership ? have she or the Secretary of State consider that or have any conversation with colleague about it ? with a general election approach , in a significant year for democracy across the world and with record number of people go to the poll , the freedom of the press have never be more important . now be not the time for the Government to have no answer or to be asleep at the wheel . I thank the hon . Lady for her rather hyperbolic intervention . we be have a debate because two public interest intervention notice have be issue . the Government take their power in this respect seriously , and the Competition and Markets Authority and Ofcom will be give the space and time to look into all these issue in detail . those notice be issue because the Secretary of State take the issue of medium freedom and the ownership of important british medium institution extremely seriously . I therefore ask the hon . Lady to help we . those investigation be under way ; we must not prejudice they and must ensure they be watertight . the important question of media ownership be something that all member of this House care about . it would be regrettable if I be to say anything in this Chamber that should prejudice that process , so I say again to the hon . Lady that action have be take , it be something the Government take seriously , and I ask she to let the process take its course . it be hugely new for we to be tell that we will not get our question answer at the Dispatch Box . we be use to that happen anyway , but it be good to be tell that it be a waste of our time be here in the first place . to press on with not be answer , I say to the Minister that I and 28 other , across all party , write a letter to her Department specify that we be all oppose to this potential takeover . we make it clear that we be not opposed to it because we dislike that particular Government — although I have to say that that may well be a feature . rather , we would oppose it if the french Government wish to buy the newspaper , or even if this Government decide they would control they . we would oppose that on the basis that it would trample right across the idea of freedom of the press . follow the notice that have go to the CMA , I simply ask the Minister whether she would ask the Secretary of State to create a new piin on the basis that RedBird IMI have twice disrupt the Government ' s effort to properly scrutinise the purchase . particularly with the idea of debt be load into the purchase , we need a far detailed investigation . I would be grateful if the Minister do that , because this could easily turn into a disaster for this Government . I do not say I would give no answer ; I say I would be able to give general answer , and my right hon . friend will understand why . these be very precise process that must be keep watertight , and I would not want to do anything to prejudice they or the Secretary of State ' s ability to act in a way that be in the interest of this country and the medium . this be not a waste of time . it be an opportunity for this House to make its voice and opinion know on what be a controversial issue of great public interest — an issue that we as a Government be very interested in . my right hon . Friend also make the important point that his concern be not about the Government in this particular case , but about Government ownership in principle . it be something I appreciate and understand , and I be sure it will be in the Secretary of State ' s mind . when host COP28 , Sultan al - Jaber say that there be " no science " behind the climate change emergency . the Sultan be head of the UAE medium council , and influential in the Telegraph takeover . I work for many year as a journalist ; I understand that democracy require plurality in the medium landscape . sadly , in the UK the vast majority of title be already skewed to the right — in Scotland , as we know , half the population support independence , but only one title support that position . we do not want the situation worsen . I be in favour of a free , diverse and vibrant press ecosystem , and not in favour of a newspaper be own as a loss - make public relation arm of a foreign state through access to our daily news cycle . do the Minister agree that allow the UAE to take over the Telegraph would be unhealthy in principle for our democracy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise an issue of principle , which I perfectly understand , as something that I speak about in relation to the BBC , and how it must have editorial independence from the Government . as a principle , I would be concern about Government ownership of any medium institution , but as he will be aware , I can speak only of principle . when the wonderful Taylor Swift discover that her back catalogue have be buy by a purchaser of whom she disapprove , she begin to render it worthless by re - record all her previous hit . be that an example that journalist at the Spectator and the Telegraph might do well to follow ? I thank my right hon . friend for his mischievous suggestion . I could not possibly comment on it , but I be sure that it have be hear . I be reel from the comparison of Telegraph hack with Taylor Swift . if the Minister can not answer question , maybe we could use this as an exercise in issue some concern . the National Union of Journalists ' concern be obviously about job , but they be also about future editorial independence . it behove the Minister and the Government to look at what sanction could be use in future if agreement be reach but not keep to — Murdoch be the good example of that . in addition , I wonder whether it be time , as my hon . friend the Member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) say , for a proper review of medium ownership . I thank the right hon . gentleman for speak on behalf of the NUJ and for raise what this mean for medium plurality and the ability of journalist to hold we here to account . I agree on those generality , but I be afraid I can not say anything more about the specific of this case , as he will be aware . once the process be over , I be sure there will be question to go back to about how we well look into how our medium be own . for what it be worth , the proposal be say to enhance the competitive landscape , not diminish it . do the Minister agree that this sort of decision must be make accord to legal principle , not politic ? it be not appropriate to consider political posturing from the left or right when decide this important matter , which be part of the Secretary of State ' s quasi - judicial function . my right hon . and learn Friend be right to say that the Secretary of State will be under specific obligation to consider this matter without politic . both the CMA and Ofcom will look at this carefully from a regulatory point of view . we as politician should also have a right to some broad view about media ownership as we consider those question . the Secretary of State be the departmental owner of culture , medium and sport , and will have some consideration about how to ensure a dynamic medium landscape . I be sure that she will carefully apply her legal brain to the application of those principle . I think the House see I for what I be , which be a shy and retire Member . for year I have be tease in the Telegraph at the hand of Mr Alan Cochrane , and more recently in the Spectator . but that be democracy ; it be the nature of the beast , and it be free speech . I agree with the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) that there be a national security implication . I think that the mood of the House be that this be simply not on — we all agree on that . the message should be pass back to the Secretary of State and to the Government that we will not wear this . I hope the hon . Gentleman do not mind I say so , but I believe that when I last see he , he be on his way to a Spectator Burns night party , so I hope the relationship be warm and cordial now , with no unkindness towards he from that magazine . as I say at the outset , this be a useful exercise in make the view of this House know on this matter . it be an important opportunity for member to have their say , and I hope that they will be hear . I must say I be amuse by the Minister ' s opening remark , because I can not recall any judicial review ever be trigger by statement in Parliament — not once . however , give that she want a statement , not a question , in the event that the CMA and Ofcom report find conditionally in favour in any way , she must not take the Murdoch ownership of the Times as an example , because since the sacking of its editor , that have be a failure , not a success . as my right hon . friend will be aware , the decision - make process be not mine . I will not be the person to make a judgment call on this matter . the CMA and Ofcom have until 11 March to issue their initial report . at that stage , undertaking can be accept or a second stage can be open . I be sure that all these question will be in the Secretary of State ' s mind as she make that judgment . I thank the Minister very much for her answer , which be always very helpful , and we appreciate that . can she outline if measure can and will be put in place to secure editorial freedom in the long term ? we look to a nation with completely different ideal , but which have capacity to shape the medium narrative and public information . how can we make sure that we retain trust ? as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , a public notice have be issue on this matter . Ofcom will look expressly at accurate presentation of the news and free expression of opinion when it make its report and judgment know . I hope that will give he some assurance about how the medium consideration will be look at , not just the competition aspect . I fully understand the limitation on what my hon . friend can say . have cover for she until a few week ago as medium Minister , I be give no inside information about this matter , either . however , she will be aware that it be now over five year since the Ofcom report to the Secretary of State that say that the internet have transform the way that news be provide and consume , and that there will need to be a fundamental review of the medium ownership regime . do she agree with that , and can she say whether the Government will undertake that review ? I thank my right hon . friend for his expert cover for I . we discuss that subject in our handover , when he tell I that there be no information that he could share because he be assiduous in his role and make sure that he be not involve in area that he should not be . he ask about future ownership question . he will be aware that we be debate the medium Bill after this urgent question . we have look at some issue in relation to medium , in particular the change medium landscape and how the internet have change it . that have not cover all the issue that will be raise by this acquisition , but I be sure that once that the Media Bill have complete all its stage , we will be able to look afresh at the other hole in the landscape . I appreciate that there be a limit to what the Minister can say about the potential sale of the Daily Telegraph to owner back by the UAE , but be there any lesson for medium freedom that the Government might learn from the creation of university branch campus in the UAE , and what that have mean for freedom of speech ? I be afraid that be not a subject about which I know a great deal . I shall happily look into it and see whether there be any implication for our medium landscape , but I can not comment in relation to this specific acquisition . do the Minister agree that the fact that we be in this position show that clarity be need about media ownership rule ? we need a presumption against sovereign foreign state acquire strategic UK medium asset to further their influence , just as there should one be against acquisition by a foreign oligarch who might not have a commitment to the medium . we need some certainty about how and where such an intervention can be make , and not purely on competition ground . that point have be raise by a number of hon . member . we have tool for these kind of acquisition , as can be see in the public interest intervention notice that we have impose in this case . I reassure member that we be not totally naked on this question ; there be tool , under the Enterprise Act , that allow we to look into it . I be sure that once the process be over , we will be able to look back and say whether any further action or intervention be require . as owner expect to have influence over editor and the editorial line , why do we not have a policy of rule out all Government ownership of such organisation , which would make it much simple ? I thank my right hon . friend for make that simple point . it be one that I be sure will be consider once this case have pass . be a media outlet in an authoritarian state , or indeed any other state , to be threaten with foreign ownership , would the Minister responsible be as scrupulous in her answer as my hon . friend have so properly be with we today ? perhaps not . I be sure that many member be , like I , concern about foreign ownership of our institution and business . our national resilience , strategic independence and critical infrastructure , as well as our medium , be vital . to quote the well - know album , how do we ensure that we do not end up sell England by the pound ? as I have say in answer to similar question , we have power to look into some of those investment and ownership question , and they do not relate just to the medium . we now have much broad national security and investment power in relation to question such as these and to other area in which there be a critical national interest in the ownership of a particular asset . it would be wrong for member to leave the Chamber with the belief that there be no such power and that all these acquisition can go ahead regardless of security and other implication . the Minister be absolutely right : Ofcom can apply a test , which it already apply , to broadcast licence . do she agree that , give the change in the medium landscape , that should be roll over to news website and publisher that have significant scale ? we be look at how we regulate online content alongside standard broadcasting and other medium output . one outcome of the mid - term review be that some of the BBC ' s online material will be consider in the same way as its other output . those be all question that the Department be look into to ensure that medium regulation and legislation be fit for what be a rapidly change medium landscape . it be clear that pay off the debt mean that RedBird IMI have control over the title . indeed , it have already transfer the ownership of that debt to a new UK entity . should not the Secretary of State also issue a piin on the debt to ensure that she retain control of the situation ? my hon . friend will be aware that this be the second such notice to have be issue . I be not able to speculate on or speak about any other action that the Secretary of State might be minded to take . I know that he will understand that . he will know that the broad principle of concern to he , about which he have write so eloquently and powerfully in recent week and month , be also close to my heart . autism ( Early Identification ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the training of teacher in relation to the early identification of autism ; and for connected purpose . for those with autism , the stat be stark . few than half of autistic child say that they be happy in school ; 73 % of young autistic people say that their teacher do not understand their need ; only 20 % achieve grade 5 or above in English and math gcse , compare with 52 % for all pupil ; and , on top of that , autistic child be twice as likely to be exclude from school than their peer . it do not get well in adulthood . just 29 % of autistic people be in full or part - time employment , and those in work be pay a third less than their peer . that be not right , especially when the potential of autistic child with proper support should not be underestimate . autistic people have strong attention to detail , creative talent , mathematical and technical ability , and expertise in niche area . those of we who know autistic child know that they be honest and loyal . we all know that an early diagnosis help to identify what an individual child need and what adjustment need to be put in place so that their strength can be maximise . it provide a positive pathway instead of a negative one . it mean that those with autism be more likely to find work . it help to combat mental health issue , which affect 54 % of those with special educational need and disability and cost the UK economy £ 582 million . however , 92 % of child wait long than the NHS 13 - week deadline , and 46 % wait more than 18 month — that backlog mean that a quarter of child with autism will not be diagnose while in school . in Norfolk between 2021 and October 2023 , 1 , 141 under - 18 be diagnose with autism . many wait long than 18 month for their diagnosis — some even wait three year , and one wait 10 year . how many more of the 187 , 000 child in Norfolk will not be assess at all ? the question be , why do a diagnosis not happen until much later ? unfortunately , there be often a " wait and see " attitude . however , not only be a delay in diagnosis extremely damaging for a child who be autistic , but it be unnecessary . condition such as autism have marker from six month old , as it become obvious through the way child learn , move or pay attention . exist weakness in the SEND system , which be magnify by the pandemic , also make it difficult for people with autism to get a diagnosis . there be inconsistency in how SEND be identify , a lack of join - up thinking on care , and a lack of clarity regard accountability and responsibility in organisation . that lead to delay in an already weak system , make the fight that many parent undertake to have their child assess even hard . over a year ago in this Chamber , I mention Hayley Turner , a constituent who come to I as she be have difficulty get the right support for her son , Rocky . I be ask about early year psychologist in Education question , but it be partly through conversation with Hayley that the inspiration for this Bill take flight , so I would briefly like to share her story . Rocky be two year old when his parent notice that he be develop a little differently . it be when he start school age four that it become clear that mainstream education be not the right fit and that those teach he be not train to teach child with neurodiverse condition . that situation be very distressing for he and for Hayley , who have to fight to be hear . she go to tribunal and spend many hour put together all the necessary paperwork to show that Rocky need to be place in specialist education . it be an unnecessary distraction that take Hayley away from be the mum she need to be for both her child , which make everyday family life hard . Rocky be just one of thousand of child whose parent be fight today for their child to have an adequate education . indeed , the Government ' s own SEND statistic show that 98 % of parent win on appeal once they get to tribunal . those child be not difficult or troublesome . Hayley say something very poignant : " autistic child , whilst in mainstream school , be easily misunderstood . they be just innocent child try to survive in an environment that isn ' t design for they . they have to fail first before they be adequately support and that ' s not how a child should start their education . " Rocky ' s story be eventually a success story , but it be his story , along with other conversation I have have , that lead I to introduce the Bill today . it be important to impress on all member of the House that autistic child will not grow out of it : they will need extra help and target treatment to reduce the chance of negative consequence and financial burden in later life . however , as it stand , just 39 % of primary school teacher have more than half a day ' s training in autism — such a small number . for secondary school , that figure drop to just 14 % . SEND be see as a specialist area — a bolt - on , not a build - in — with teacher training not include how to ensure that teacher can identify SEND marker . that need to change . autistic pupil routinely identify autism training for teacher as the single big change that would improve their experience of school . that can only happen if all teacher be train in SEND . it be for those reason that I introduce my ten - minute rule Bill , the Autism ( Early Identification ) Bill , which will deliver support to increase autism assessment , reduce diagnosis waiting time and introduce mandatory autism training for all teacher . the Bill will provide a solid base through which all teacher will learn about early identification , the special educational need code of practice , the pattern and sequence of child development , what need to be do if a child have communication difficulty , and understanding and deal with difficult behaviour . it will mean that if milestone be not meet , help can be put in place ; that few child will struggle in school ; and that they will no long be label difficult or disruptive . through a Bill that ensure that all teaching staff can support autistic pupil well , school will in turn become more inclusive place , where everyone — staff , pupil and parent — be truly value and feel a sense of belong . I be encourage by the openness of this government to change in the system . it be positive that the Government announce as far back as the last queen ' s Speech that every child will get the education they deserve , and that there be vision , ethos and strategic direction in our education system . I be also encourage by the publication of the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan , in which the Government state that they " will explore opportunity to build teacher expertise through a review of the Initial Teacher Training ( ITT ) Core Content Framework and Early Career Framework . " I be encourage by the Secretary of State ' s comment at the Dispatch Box yesterday , and by a letter from the Minister last July that say that " all initial teacher training course must be design so that trainee teacher can demonstrate a clear understanding of the need of all pupil , include those with SEND " and that " all teacher be teacher of SEND " . all those objective be encapsulate in the Bill , but it would go far . have a special educational need co - ordinator in school be not enough , and only have a few provider of training be not enough . the Bill will ensure that all autistic child receive the support they need so that they can flourish , and that autistic and SEND pupil be not a forget piece of the puzzle , but an integral part of the education system . it will help the Government achieve their objective in this area . the Bill be support by the sector , which be keen to work with the Government on the fine detail regard what training be need and how it should be roll out , as well as to work on technology to make the system around education , health and care plan a lot easy and ensure that support can be easily review so that it continue to suit the young person ' s need . as I wrap up , I ask the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) to please be bold in this area . please support we , and use the essence of my Bill to make sure that the reform really do make autistic child ' s live well . I thank FullSpektrum , Keystone Consulting and Ambitious about Autism , as well as my constituent Hayley Turner and everyone else who have support I so much in introduce this Bill . question put and agree to . order , that Duncan Baker , Sir Robert Buckland , Dame Caroline Dinenage , Sir Liam Fox , Mr Robin Walker , Edward Timpson , Jim Shannon , Marion Fellows , Peter Gibson , James Sunderland , Elliot Colburn and Steve Tuckwell present the Bill . Duncan Baker accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 April , and to be print ( Bill 154 ) . medium Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Thirteenth Report of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , Draft medium bill : Final Report , HC 1807 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 , HC 115 ; Twelfth Report of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , Draft medium bill : Radio Measures , HC 1287 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 , HC 115 ; Fifth Report of the Welsh Affairs Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , broadcast in Wales , HC 620 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 , HC 489 . ] we be go to begin with new clause 1 , but Hywel Williams be not here , so I instead call George Eustice to move new clause 3 . New Clause 3 - consultation on section 50 " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish a call for evidence seek view on alternative incentive to encourage publisher or regulator to seek recognition under the term of the Royal Charter for the Self - Regulation of the Press . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament a report set out the Government ' s formal response to evidence submit in response to the call for evidence require by subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may not make an order under section 55 ( 3 ) ( ga ) bring any part of section 50 into force until the report specify in subsection ( 2 ) have be lay before both Houses of Parliament . " — ( George Eustice . ) see explanatory statement to Amendment 3 . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 1 — evaluation of nation - base production — " ( 1 ) the Communications Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 286 ( regional programme - making for Channels 3 and 5 ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) , at end insert " except where the company be a new start - up and have register itself as be primarily base in that nation " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) insert — " ( e ) Ofcom must require a broadcaster list a production as be base in Northern Ireland , Scotland or Wales to demonstrate prior to production that a production company have — ( i ) a substantial base ( consist of a specify number of staff ) within the nation ; ( ii ) a commitment to remain within the nation for a specified amount of time ; ( iii ) have a presence within the nation for at least 36 month . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( d ) , at end insert " except where the company be a new start - up and have register itself as be primarily base in that nation . " ; ( d ) after subsection ( 3 ) ( d ) insert — " ( e ) Ofcom must require a broadcaster list a production as be base in Northern Ireland , Scotland or Wales to demonstrate prior to production that a production company have — ( i ) a substantial base ( consist of a specify number of staff ) within the nation ; ( ii ) a commitment to remain within the nation for a specified amount of time ; ( iii ) have a presence within the nation for at least 36 month . " ( 3 ) in section 288 ( regional programme - making for Channel 4 ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) , at end insert " except where the company be a new start - up and have register itself as be primarily base in that nation . " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) insert — " ( e ) Ofcom must require a broadcaster list a production as be base in Northern Ireland , Scotland or Wales to demonstrate prior to production that a production company have — ( i ) a substantial base ( consist of a specify number of staff ) within the nation ; ( ii ) a commitment to remain within the nation for a specified amount of time ; ( iii ) have a presence within the nation specify for at least 36 month . " . " new clause 4 — OFCOM review of on - demand programme service regulation measure — " ( 1 ) as soon as practicable after chapter 2 of this Act come into force , OFCOM must carry out a review of its on - demand programme service regulation measure . ( 2 ) this review must take account of — ( a ) the size , and ( b ) the turnover of the service to which these regulation apply and assess whether the current application of the regulation be the most effective mean to achieve the policy goal of this chapter . ( 3 ) in conduct the review describe in subsection ( 2 ) , OFCOM must consult with relevant stakeholder , include public service broadcaster , on - demand programme service provider and any other stakeholder as appropriate . " this would require OFCOM to conduct a review of the Bill ' s new on - demand regulatory code . the review must take account of the size and turnover of the regulated service , and assess whether the current regulatory approach be effective in achieve the policy goal of the Bill . the review would have to be conduct in consultation with relevant stakeholder . new clause 6 — age rating standard — " where Tier 1 provider use an age rating or other classification system to comply with the duty impose on they by or under this Act for the protection of audience from harm , they must — ( a ) apply the age rating or classification system use by the video work authority base on their classification guideline ; or ( b ) apply an age rating or classification system that be judge by OFCOM to be — ( i ) base on a transparent set of appropriate standard ; ( ii ) apply consistently across content ; and ( iii ) inform by regular consultation with the UK public . " this new clause ensure that , where age rating be use by video on Demand platform , those rating be the same as the one use by the British Board of Film Classification or meet equivalent standard of rigour , transparency , and objectivity . new clause 7 — adequate on - demand coverage to be available — " after section 101 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 , insert — " 101ZA Provision of adequate on - demand coverage ( 1 ) the purpose of this section be to secure , in relation to a list event , that if any person make available on - demand coverage of the whole or any part of that event , adequate on - demand coverage be make available widely and free of charge to member of the public in the United Kingdom , whether by that person or another person . ( 2 ) in this Part , in relation to a list event or part of such an event , " on - demand coverage " mean audiovisual content consist of coverage of , or excerpt from , that event ( or a combination of those ) , where — ( a ) a person make a range of such content available to member of the public , whether through a relevant service or otherwise ; ( b ) selection from that range can be make by the user and view at a time choose by the user ( even if it may be view only within a period specify by the person make it available ) ; ( c ) the select content be receive by the user by mean of the internet ; and ( d ) the content otherwise meet any criterion or requirement specify ( either generally or in relation to particular list event ) by regulation under section 104ZA ; and " on - demand right " mean right to make on - demand coverage available for access by member of the public in the United Kingdom . ( 3 ) any contract enter into on or after the day on which section [ adequate on - demand coverage to be available ] of the Media Act 2024 come into force under which a person acquire on - demand right be void so far as it purport — ( a ) in relation to the whole or any part of the event , or ( b ) in relation to access by mean of the internet , in the United Kingdom , to grant those right exclusively . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , on - demand right be grant exclusively if the person grant they — ( a ) have not grant any such right in respect of the whole or , as the case may be , that part of the event to more than one person , and ( b ) be preclude by the term of the contract from do so . ( 5 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) , right be not to be treat as have be grant to more than one person where the only person to whom such right have be grant be connect with each other . ( 6 ) no person may provide on - demand coverage of a list event unless authorise to do so under subsection ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) or ( 9 ) , even if that person be authorise to include live coverage of that event in a relevant service by subsection ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) of section 101 . ( 7 ) the provision of on - demand coverage of a list event be authorise by this subsection if — ( a ) on - demand right have be acquire by the provider of a relevant service fall within section 98 ( 1 ) ( a ) ; ( b ) that relevant service include live coverage of that event ; and ( c ) the on - demand coverage provide that provider — ( i ) constitute adequate on - demand coverage of the event , and ( ii ) may be access free of charge . ( 8 ) the provision of on - demand coverage of a list event be authorise by this subsection if — ( a ) on - demand right have be acquire by one or more person ; ( b ) those person be not connect with each other ; ( c ) the on - demand coverage provide by at least one of those person — ( i ) constitute adequate on - demand coverage of the event , and ( ii ) may be access free of charge ; and ( d ) the person or person who have acquire right to provide the adequate on - demand coverage satisfy the requirement in relation to that coverage of any regulation make under section 104ZA for the purpose of this paragraph . ( 9 ) the provision of on - demand coverage of a list event be authorise by this subsection if OFCOM have consent in advance to such provision . ( 10 ) OFCOM may revoke any consent give by they under subsection ( 9 ) . ( 11 ) the code draw up by OFCOM under section 104 shall include guidance on the matter which they will take into account in determine whether to give or revoke their consent for the purpose of subsection ( 9 ) . ( 12 ) regulation under section 104ZA ( regulation about coverage of list event ) may include provision — ( a ) specify ( either generally or in relation to particular list event ) any criterion or requirement that content must meet in order to be regard as on - demand coverage for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) ( d ) ; ( b ) for determine for the purpose of this section what ( whether generally or in relation to particular circumstance ) be to be take to represent the provision of adequate on - demand coverage of an event for the purpose of subsection ( 8 ) ( d ) . ( 13 ) failure to comply with subsection ( 6 ) shall not affect the validity of any contract . ( 14 ) subsection ( 6 ) shall not have effect where the person provide the on - demand coverage be exercise on - demand right acquire before the commencement of this section . ( 15 ) in this section , " on - demand coverage " and " adequate on - demand coverage " be to be construe in accordance with regulation under section 104ZA . ( 16 ) for the purpose of section 104A ( provision of information ) and 104b ( penalty for failure to provide information ) , any person make available , or wish to make available , on - demand coverage of the whole or any part of any list event shall be treat as a person who be within subsection ( 5 ) of section 104A . " " this new clause would secure that , where possible , adequate on - demand coverage of list event , such as clip and excerpt , be make available free of charge to audience in the United Kingdom . new clause 8 — protection of digital terrestrial television — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall ensure that — ( a ) the license public service channel continue to be broadcast via digital terrestrial television to as many of their intended audience as be reasonably practicable ; and ( b ) a sufficient number of digital terrestrial television multiplex licence be issue to deliver the licensed public service channel via digital terrestrial television and support a diverse range of commercial digital terrestrial television channel . ( 2 ) OFCOM shall reserve sufficient frequency for television broadcasting service accordingly . " this new clause would place a responsibility on the Secretary of State to ensure that public service television channel continue to be broadcast via digital terrestrial television ( DTT ) and that sufficient licence be issue to keep the platform viable . it would also require Ofcom to make spectrum available accordingly . new clause 9 — Review of child ' s access to public service broadcast content — " within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must prepare and publish a report on how to ensure that child have access to public service broadcast content . " this new clause would require a review of how to ensure child have access to public service content , give their viewing habit . new clause 10 — Digital right to list event — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the Broadcasting Act 1996 to make provision for coverage of list event which be not live coverage . ( 2 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " new clause 11 — delivery of public service content on relevant television service — " after section 264a of the Communications Act 2003 , insert — " 264B Delivery of public service content on relevant television service ( 1 ) OFCOM must monitor the extent to which the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom be meet in respect of relevant television service . ( 2 ) if OFCOM consider that the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom be not be meet in respect of such service , it may set whatever programming quota it consider necessary to ensure that the remit be meet . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " relevant television service " mean — ( a ) the television broadcasting service provide by the BBC ; ( b ) the television programme service that be public service of the Welsh Authority ( within the meaning of section 207 ) ; ( c ) every Channel 3 service ; ( d ) Channel 4 ; ( e ) Channel 5 . " " this new clause would give OFCOM power to measure the delivery of public service content on the linear service of the public service broadcaster , and set quota if it consider the current level to be unsatisfactory . new clause 12 — regulation of selection service for on demand and online - only content — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for the regulation of selection service for on demand and online - only content equivalent to the regulation of radio selection service provide for by section 48 and Schedule 9 of this Act . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may amend primary legislation . " new clause 13 — gaelic language service — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , review whether a Gaelic language service should be give a public service broadcast remit . " new clause 14 — Age Classifications — " when consider the adequacy of age rating , OFCOM must assess whether any age rating use by provider be — ( a ) widely recognise by the UK public ; ( b ) underpin by a transparent set of standard ; ( c ) inform by regular consultation with the UK public . " new clause 15 — establish a Broadcasting and Communications Authority for Wales — " ( 1 ) a Broadcasting and Communications Authority for Wales ( " the Authority " ) be establish . ( 2 ) the Authority must perform the following function — ( a ) support for the broadcasting and media sector serve audience in Wales ; ( b ) oversight and accountability for public service broadcasting in Wales ; ( c ) facilitation and development of the production of content by broadcaster and medium outlet in Wales ; ( d ) promotion and preservation of the Welsh language , identity and culture in broadcasting and media output ; ( e ) support for and development of english language content make in Wales and ensure that it be relevant to Welsh audience ; and ( f ) any function the Secretary of State consider necessary to support further devolution of broadcast policy to the Welsh Government . ( 3 ) in perform the function under subsection 2 the Authority must have regard to — ( a ) public interest journalism ; ( b ) content for child and young people ; and ( c ) sport content and national event . ( 4 ) in perform the duty under subsection ( 2 ) in relation to broadcasting and medium matter in Wales , the Authority must consult — ( a ) relevant Ministers in the Welsh Government ; ( b ) member of the Senedd ; and ( c ) member of the public living in Wales . ( 5 ) section 1 come into force at the end of the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 6 ) in preparation for the establishment of the Authority a shadow authority may be establish in line with the function set out in subsection 2 after the passing of this Act . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision for the appointment of officer to the Authority . " this new clause create a new independent Welsh Broadcasting and Communications Authority with responsibility and oversight for broadcasting and medium matter in Wales to help reflect and meet the need of Welsh audience . new clause 16 — list event — " ( 1 ) the Broadcasting Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 97 ( as amend by section 299 of the Communications Act 2003 ) , after subsection ( 1B ) insert — " ( 1A ) the follow event must be include in Group A of the list draw up under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) the Olympic Games ; ( b ) the Paralympic Games ; ( c ) the FIFA World Cup Finals Tournament ; ( d ) the FIFA Women ' s World Cup Finals Tournament ; ( e ) the European Football Championship Finals Tournament ; ( f ) the European Women ' s Football Championship Finals Tournament ; ( g ) the FA Cup Final ; ( h ) the Scottish FA Cup Final ; ( i ) the Grand National ; ( j ) the Wimbledon Tennis Finals ; ( k ) the Rugby Union World Cup Final ; ( l ) six nation Rugby Tournament Matches involve Home Countries ; ( m ) the Derby ; ( n ) the Rugby League Challenge Cup Final ; ( o ) any match involve the national team of Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland or England pertain to qualification for the event list in paragraph ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) and ( f ) . " " this new clause would make it compulsory for the Secretary of State to place the list of sporting event in Group A of listed sporting event , ensure they be available on free to air television in their entirety . the event consist of all current Group A event plus the home nation World Cup and Euro qualifier . new clause 17 — consultation on listing of event — " ( 1 ) the Broadcasting Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 97 ( 2 ) , after paragraph ( b ) , insert — " ( ba ) Seirbheis nam Meadhanan G à idhlig ( the Gaelic Media Service ) , " ( 3 ) in section 104 ( 4 ) , after paragraph ( b ) , insert — " ( ba ) Seirbheis nam Meadhanan G à idhlig ( the Gaelic Media Service ) , " " this new clause would add Seirbheis nam Meadhanan G à idhlig ( the Gaelic Media Service ) to the list of organisation which must be consult when the Secretary of State be draft or amend list event and Ofcom be draw up its related code of guidance . new clause 18 — list Events Fund — " ( 1 ) the Broadcasting Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 104ZA insert — " 104ZB Financial matter arise from the listing of event : the Listed Events Fund ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall establish a fund ( the " Listed Events Fund " ) with the purpose of minimise the consequential financial impact of the listing of event on sport govern body who would otherwise suffer egregious financial distress . ( 2 ) payment from the fund shall be limit to govern body and other sporting right holder who maintain their register office in Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland or England and whose primary geographic area of responsibility lie within one of these territory . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State , follow the revision of the listing of event in Group A , shall invite govern body and other organisation who could reasonably assess their turnover or income as drop as a result of an event be list in Group A ( and who qualify under the provision of subsection ( 2 ) of this section ) to apply to he for payment from the fund . ( 4 ) no organisation with a report turnover of great than £ 50 million per annum for the financial year in which any subvention may be pay shall be entitle to payment from the fund . ( 5 ) the amount lay down in subsection ( 4 ) may be vary by the Secretary of State on an annual basis , but may not increase by a rate great than that of the Retail Price Index as measure at any point in the three month previous to any propose variation . " " this new clause would provide a fund under the auspex of the Secretary of State to be pay to govern body or other broadcasting right holder who may experience financial detriment as a result of list under Group A . new clause 19 — diversity in the workforce of the public service broadcaster — " ( 1 ) OFCOM must produce a report each year detail diversity in the workforce of the public sector broadcaster ( " psb " ) . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) a breakdown by protect characteristic of the number of people in the workforce of each PSB ; ( b ) the percentage of the workforce on and offscreen who have various protect characteristic as deem relevant by OFCOM ; ( c ) if the percentage report under paragraph ( b ) be not reflective of the population as a whole or on a regional basis , a statement from each broadcaster on how they intend to increase diversity in their organisation . ( 3 ) OFCOM may request any information they require from the psb in order to compile the report under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 4 ) provision of datum to enable OFCOM to produce the report under subsection ( 1 ) be to be consider by OFCOM when it assess the extent to which a PSB have fulfil its public service broadcasting remit . " this new clause would require OFCOM to produce an annual report on workforce diversity within the psb . new clause 20 — on - demand programme service — " ( 1 ) OFCOM must report to the Secretary of State each year on the percentage of people who be watch on - demand service that do not fall under the definition of on - demand programme service in section 368a of the Communications Act . ( 2 ) if OFCOM report concern that the definition be not provide protection for public service broadcaster on on - demand service that be be widely access by the public — ( a ) OFCOM must write to the Secretary of State , and ( b ) the Secretary of State must make a write statement to Parliament on how the Secretary of State intend to remedy this matter . " this new clause would require OFCOM and the Secretary of State to keep under review the adequacy of the definition of on - demand programme service in section 368a of the Communications Act 2003 . new clause 21 — Delivery of public service content on relevant television service — " after section 264a of the Communications Act 2003 , insert — " 264B Delivery of public service content on relevant television service ( 1 ) Ofcom must monitor the extent to which the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom be meet in respect of relevant television service , include level of programming from a diverse range of genre include , among other , education , entertainment , music , art science , sport matter of international significance , religion and specialist interest . ( 2 ) if Ofcom consider that the public service remit for television in the United Kingdom be not be meet in respect of such service , it may set whatever programming quota it consider necessary to ensure that the remit be meet . ( 3 ) it be the duty of relevant television broadcasting service to prepare and publish a statement annually on their performance in the provision of public service content . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , " relevant television service " mean — ( a ) the television broadcasting service provide by the BBC ; ( b ) the television programme service that be public service of the Welsh Authority ( within the meaning of section 207 ) ; ( c ) every Channel 3 service ; ( d ) Channel 4 ; ( e ) Channel 5 . " " this new clause would give Ofcom power to measure the delivery of public service content on the linear service of the public service broadcaster , and set quota if it consider the current level to be unsatisfactory . new clause 22 — duty to report on workforce diversity and equality requirement — " ( 1 ) public service broadcaster ( " psb " ) must prepare and publish a statement on a workforce diversity and equality strategy within the period of one year begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 2 ) a workforce diversity and equality strategy must comprise a plan set out how psb be take appropriate step towards improve diversity and equality within the workforce in the period cover by the plan , which must cover not more than three year . ( 3 ) in particular , a workforce diversity and equality strategy must state a PSB ' s objective and priority for the period it cover . ( 4 ) a workforce diversity and equality strategy must include a summary and an evaluation of the activity and initiative pursue or commission by a PSB in the exercise of its function under subsection ( 1 ) in the period to which the strategy relate . ( 5 ) before the end of the period cover by a workforce diversity and equality strategy , psb must prepare and publish a strategy for a further period , ensure that each successive strategy cover a period begin immediately after the end of the last one . ( 6 ) in prepare or revise a workforce diversity and equality strategy , a PSB must consult such person as they consider appropriate . ( 7 ) OFCOM must prepare and publish a report on workforce diversity and equality strategy statement produce by psb set out in subsection ( 1 ) , in particular — ( a ) summarise what action a PSB be plan and take in the exercise of its strategy under subsection ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) ; ( b ) assess what progress have be make towards achieve the objective and priority set out in a strategy in the relevant period . ( 8 ) the first annual report by OFCOM on workforce diversity and equality be require to be publish within a period of 18 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 9 ) OFCOM must prepare and publish subsequent report on psb ' strategy and progress against they every three year thereafter . " this new clause introduce a requirement for psb to publish objective on the promotion of diversity and equality among the workforce and for Ofcom to monitor and report on PSB performance on meet this requirement . new clause 23 — duty to report on medium literacy requirement — " ( 1 ) public service broadcaster ( " psb " ) must prepare and publish a statement on a medium literacy strategy within the period of one year begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 2 ) a medium literacy strategy be a plan set out how psb be take appropriate step towards improve level of medium literacy among audience in the period cover by the plan , which must be not more than three year . ( 3 ) in particular , a medium literacy strategy must state a PSB ' s objective and priority for the period it cover . ( 4 ) a medium literacy statement must include a summary and an evaluation of the activity and initiative pursue or commission by the PSB in the exercise of their function under section ( 1 ) in the period to which the report relate . ( 5 ) before the end of the period cover by a medium literacy strategy , psb must prepare and publish a strategy for a further period , ensure that each successive strategy cover a period begin immediately after the end of the last one . ( 6 ) in prepare or revise a medium literacy strategy , a PSB must consult such person as they consider appropriate . ( 7 ) OFCOM must prepare and publish a report of the medium literacy strategy statement set out in subsection ( 1 ) , in particular — ( a ) summarise what action a PSB be plan and take in the exercise of its strategy under subsection ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) ; ( b ) assess what progress have be make towards achieve the objective and priority set out in a strategy in the relevant period . ( 8 ) the first annual report by OFCOM on medium literacy be require to be publish within a period of 18 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 9 ) OFCOM must prepare and publish subsequent report on psb ' strategy and progress against they every three year thereafter . " this new clause introduce a requirement for psb to take appropriate step in relation to improve level of medium literacy among their audience and for Ofcom to monitor and report on PSB performance on meet this requirement . new clause 24 — duty to report on viewer and listener consultation requirement — " ( 1 ) public service broadcaster ( " psb " ) must prepare and publish a viewer and listener consultation strategy ( " consultation strategy " ) within the period of one year begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 2 ) a consultation strategy be a plan set out how psb be take appropriate step towards improve level of engagement with audience in the period cover by the plan , which must be not more than three year . ( 3 ) in particular , a consultation strategy must state a PSB ' s objective and priority for the period it cover . ( 4 ) a consultation strategy must include a summary and an evaluation of the activity and initiative pursue or commission by the PSB in the exercise of their function under section ( 1 ) in the period to which the report relate . ( 5 ) before the end of the period cover by an audience consultation strategy , psb must prepare and publish a strategy for a further period , ensure that each successive strategy cover a period begin immediately after the end of the last one . ( 6 ) in prepare or revise a medium literacy consultation strategy , psb must consult such person as they consider appropriate . ( 7 ) OFCOM must prepare and publish a report assess psb ' consultation strategy , in particular — ( a ) summarise what action a PSB be plan and take in the exercise of its strategy , and ( b ) assess what progress have be make towards achieve the objective and priority set out in a strategy in the relevant period . ( 8 ) the first annual report by OFCOM on psb ' consultation strategy must be publish within a period of 18 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 9 ) OFCOM must prepare and publish subsequent report on psb ' strategy and progress against they every three year thereafter . " this new clause introduce a requirement for psb to produce a strategy and objective for increase level of consultation with user listener and for Ofcom to monitor and report on PSB performance on meet this requirement . Amendment 81 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( iii ) a sufficient quantity of audiovisual content so as to permit fulfilment of the public service remit for television in the gaelic language as speak in Scotland " . this amendment would require OFCOM to report on whether a sufficient quantity of audiovisual content in Gaelic be televise to meet the public service remit for television . amendment 1 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) in assess the extent to which the requirement of subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) ( i ) have be meet OFCOM must have particular regard to the importance of content recognise the culture and heritage of those part of the United Kingdom recognise under the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities . " this amendment require OFCOM to have regard to the Council of Europe ' s Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities when report on the fulfilment of the public service remit through audiovisual content by the public service broadcaster . amendment 86 , page 3 , line 13 , leave out from " appropriate " to end and insert — " level of programming from a diverse range of genre include , among other , education , entertainment , music , art science , sport matter of international significance , religion and specialist interest . " this amendment would add detailed description of the range of genre which Ofcom must report on whether the public service broadcaster have make available . government amendment 19 . amendment 79 , in clause 3 , page 7 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( c ) which be broadcast via UHF frequency that can be receive by a minimum of 98 . 5 % of the population of the United Kingdom . " this amendment amend the definition of public service for Channel 3 and Channel 5 to include an obligation to broadcast via digital terrestrial television , on the basis of the already exist licence requirement apply to PSB DTT multiplex . amendment 80 , page 7 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( d ) which be broadcast via UHF frequency that can be receive by a minimum of 98 . 5 % of the population of the United Kingdom . " this amendment amend the definition of public service for Channel 4 to include a obligation to broadcast via digital terrestrial television , on the basis of the already exist licence requirement apply to PSB DTT multiplex . Amendment 82 , in clause 8 , page 9 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( c ) a duration such as OFCOM consider appropriate of those independent production be commission from small studio " . this amendment would require OFCOM to require licensed public service channel regulatory condition to include commission from small studio . amendment 83 , page 9 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the regulatory regime for Channel 4 include the condition that OFCOM consider appropriate for secure that , in each year , not less than 35 % per cent of Channel 4 ' s total expenditure on qualify audiovisual content be allocate to independent production make by independent production company with annual turnover not exceed £ 25 , 000 , 000 . ( 1b ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend subsection ( 1A ) by substitute a different figure for the annual turnover specify in that section . ( 1C ) before make regulation under subsection ( 1B ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) OFCOM , ( b ) Channel 4 , and ( c ) independent production company that be likely to be affect by the regulation . " this amendment would require that at least 35 % of Channel 4 ' s annual expenditure on qualify audiovisual content be allocate to production make by independent producer with annual revenue small than £ 25 m . it also provide the Secretary of State the power to amend , follow consultation , the revenue figure define the production company to which the requirement apply . amendment 84 , page 10 , line 15 , before " commission " insert " " annual revenue " mean the report revenue publish in the annual account of the respective independent production company , cover the most recently available period of 12 month ; " . this amendment would insert a definition for the purpose of Amendment 83 . amendment 85 , page 10 , line 17 , at end insert — " " independent production company " have the same meaning as in the Broadcasting ( Independent Productions ) Order 1991 ; " . this amendment would insert a definition for the purpose of Amendment 83 . government amendment 20 to 40 . amendment 88 , in clause 25 , page 30 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) on the date on which section 21 come into force , the Secretary of State must revise the list maintain for the purpose of Part 4 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 so that it include — ( a ) at least one cricket test match each year between the month of May and September ; ( b ) at least one cricket one Day International match each year between the month of May and September ; ( c ) all other currently list Group A event . ( 5 ) the event list under subsection ( 4 ) must be allocate to Group A . " Amendment 5 , in clause 28 , page 41 , line 10 , leave out " an appropriate " and insert " a significant " . this would require that designate internet programme service be give significant prominence within regulated television selection service . amendment 78 , page 42 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( f ) any local digital television programme service that OFCOM determine be willing and able to offer an internet programme service . " this amendment include local digital television service within the prominence framework for designate internet programme service where OFCOM determine a service be willing and able to offer such a service . amendment 87 , page 42 , line 21 , leave out " an appropriate " and insert " a significant " . this amendment would require a provider of regulated television selection to give significant prominence to designate internet programme service . government amendment 41 to 49 . amendment 6 , page 69 , line 1 , leave out clause 31 . this would retain section 295 of the Communications Act 2003 , which restrict C4C ' s involvement in programme - making . government amendment 50 and 51 . amendment 18 , in clause 38 , page 79 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) when consider the adequacy of age rating , OFCOM must report on the extent to which any age rating use by provider be — ( a ) clear and well understand by consumer ; ( b ) underpin by a published and transparent set of standard ; and ( c ) inform by regular and substantive consultation with the UK public . " this amendment set condition to be use by OFCOM when report on the adequacy of the age rating classification system use by provider . government amendment 52 . amendment 7 , in clause 44 , page 83 , line 36 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment and Amendments 8 to 13 would broaden the scope of the requirement place by the Bill on local radio broadcasting licence , so that the current scope of local material as news , information and other speak material be retain . amendment 8 , page 84 , line 6 , leave out " news and information " and insert " news , information and other speak material and music " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 7 . amendment 9 , page 84 , line 23 , leave out " news and information " and insert " news , information and other speak material and music " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 7 . amendment 10 , page 84 , line 24 , leave out " news and information " and insert " news , information and other speak material and music " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 7 . amendment 11 , in page 84 , line 26 , after " news " insert " , information and other speak material and music " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 7 . amendment 12 , page 84 , line 34 , after " news " insert " , information and other speak material and music " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 7 . amendment 13 , page 84 , line 36 , after " news " insert " , information and other speak material and music " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 7 . government amendment 53 to 59 . amendment 2 , in clause 50 , page 114 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) section 40 ( 3 ) of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 be omit . " this amendment would allow the Secretary of State the option in future of commencing subsection 2 of Section 40 of the Crime and Courts act 2013 . amendment 3 , in clause 55 , page 115 , line 25 , leave out " 50 " and insert " ( consultation on section 50 ) " . this amendment , together with Amendment 4 and NC3 , would require the Secretary of State to consult on alternative incentive to encourage publisher or regulator to seek recognition under the term of the Royal Charter for the Self - Regulation of the Press , and to lay a report on the consultation before Parliament , before section 50 could be commence . amendment 4 , page 115 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( ga ) section 50 ( but see section ( consultation on section 50 ) ) ; " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 3 . government amendment 60 to 74 . amendment 17 , in schedule 5 , page 145 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( aa ) person designate by the Secretary of State as the responsible authority under Section 4 ( 1 ) of the Video Recordings Act 1984 ; " . this amendment ensure that the British Board of Film Classification be consult by OFCOM when draw up the video on Demand code . government amendment 75 . amendment 14 , page 146 , line 34 , leave out " 40 per cent " and insert " 80 per cent " . this would require Tier 1 on - demand service to provide subtitle for 80 % of their on - demand tv content from the second anniversary of the publication of the accessibility code . amendment 15 , page 146 , line 36 , leave out " 5 per cent " and insert " 10 per cent " . this would require Tier 1 on - demand service to provide audio - description for 10 per cent of their on - demand tv content from the second anniversary of the publication of the accessibility code . amendment 16 , page 147 , line 1 , leave out " 2 . 5 per cent " and insert " 5 per cent " . this would require Tier 1 on - demand service to provide sign language presentation or translation for 5 per cent of their on - demand tv content from the second anniversary of the publication of the accessibility code . government amendment 76 and 77 . there be a number of new clause and amendment in my name that I wish to speak to , but principally among they I will speak to amendment 2 , which relate to the repeal of section 40 of the Crime and Courts act 2013 . with the will of the House , I will press the amendment to a division later today , but first I will briefly address some of the other amendment . amendment 1 be not actually link to the debate about section 40 , or indeed the Leveson inquiry ; it be about something very different . it simply state that Ofcom , when consider and assess the public service remit , should also have regard to the framework convention on national minority . that be because the current framework acknowledge the importance of language in this country and their recognition under the framework convention on minority language , but it omit the framework convention on national minority . that be of particular importance to place such as Cornwall , Scotland and Wales , where the culture and identity go beyond just language . I hope the Government will consider address this matter in the other place as the Bill progress . new clause 3 address the simple reality that although the Government have say that they intend to repeal section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act , Ministers have confirm to I that the Government remain committed to the continued existence of the royal charter on self - regulation of the press . that royal charter be establish by David Cameron when he be Prime Minister , in response to the recommendation of the Leveson inquiry . Conservative Members vote to put in place section 40 in order to create an incentive to join the royal charter . give that the Government have say that they want to repeal section 40 , which create that incentive , but that they remain absolutely committed to keep the royal charter , surely they should at the very least have a call for evidence to examine what other possible incentive might encourage publisher to join that royal charter . if the Government do not believe in the royal charter on self - regulation of the press , they would simply bring forward Orders in Council to disband the royal charter , as be provide for under article 10 of the charter . the Government do not want to do that , so if they remain committed to the royal charter , let we at least explore those option . they could include give publisher access to arbitration so that they can get a fair share of the advertising revenue for the news content they produce . that remain an open problem ; some government legislation seek to address it , but it could go far . I wish to focus principally on amendment 2 , since that be the one I intend to press to a Division . the amendment would simply put in place a more precise cut to deliver the Government ' s objective . section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 have two part . the first part — subsection ( 2 ) — create an incentive for publisher to join because it give they protection against those with deep pocket . there be a carrot and a stick in section 40 . the carrot be that if , for the sake of argument , a russian oligarch threaten a publisher and say , " we ' re go to get Carter - Ruck to write expensive letter to you . we will see you in court if you publish this , " that publisher would have have protection because they would have be able to say to the rich and powerful , " we have confidence in our story and be go to run it , and if you don ' t like the story , we will see you in arbitration ; we win ' t see you in court . if you insist on take we to court and bypass that arbitration , you will pay the publisher ' s cost as well as your own . " that be the carrot — the bit that the press never object to . no one ever raise an objection to that . but there be also a stick — subsection ( 3 ) of section 40 . the stick basically say that publisher who do not join a recognise regulator have more cost exposure to ordinary citizen who have have their life and privacy violate and have no redress other than to bring legal action . the press never object to the carrot ; they only ever object to the stick . because they be a glass - half - empty type of industry , they of course tend to focus on the bit they do not like rather than the bit they do like , and they lobby furiously to have that part of section 40 remove . then we come to the 2017 conservative manifesto — let we be honest : it be not the good manifesto the party have ever draft . probably due to a drafting error , that manifesto pledge not just to remove subsection ( 3 ) of subsection 40 , which be all that be require and which would have deliver the spirit of that manifesto commitment , but commit to remove the entirety of section 40 , which be completely unnecessary . amendment 2 would remove the stick but retain the carrot . it would remove subsection ( 3 ) of section 40 . in that , it would deliver everything the press have ever want , and therefore also satisfy the Government ' s intention . this be a point that I have often make . the hon . Gentleman ' s " carrot " , as he call it , seem very similar to anti - slapp legislation , which have be welcome generally on both side of the House , and I can not see why anyone who support anti - slapp legislation would not also support amendment 2 . I certainly will support it and I hope that it get support across the House . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . anyone who truly believe in a free press , as he and I do , would want to ensure that we can protect genuine investigative journalism , and that the rich and powerful would not be able to intimidate and bully publisher with limited financial resource — many of they lose money — into not run a story that be essentially true . be amendment 2 to be agree to , those publisher that choose not to sign up to a recognise regulator would have nothing to lose ; they would be no bad off than they be today . Fraser Nelson , editor of the Spectator , have have a very strong position that he would never join a recognise regulator . it would be open to he not to ; he would be no well and no worse off than he be today , as if something end up in litigation he would not be pay both side ’ cost . a publication such as Private Eye , which famously have never join anything , would also be free to stand aloof from any kind of regulator , and it would be no well or bad off than it be today . publication such as the Daily Mail , which have wealthy benefactor stand behind they — people with deep pocket who be willing to pay for litigation and backfill the lose that such company make — would be no well or bad off than they be today , in that they could decide not to join a regulator . however , those small , plucky publisher that do not have wealthy benefactor stand behind they , and that seek to do genuine investigative journalism that might attract the attention of those threaten legal action , would have the option of join a recognise regulator , so that they could get protection against that type of strategic litigation bring by the rich and powerful — people with deep pocket — against they . so I say to the Minister that I can deliver everything that the Government seek , in a way that be fitting with the spirit of the conservative manifesto but that keep open the option of small publisher be able to gain some protection . let I remind the House why we end up with section 40 in the first place . there be a public outcry about what be call the phone - hack scandal — the widespread recognition that a culture have develop that enable publisher to hack into people ' s phone . it be David Cameron , the conservative Prime Minister , who establish the Leveson inquiry . it be David Cameron who choose Lord Justice Leveson to chair it , because Lord Justice Leveson be know as somebody who be not hostile to the press . Lord Justice Leveson invest huge amount of his time in come up with a very sensible set of proposal . it be David Cameron who then say we would implement those proposal , with cross - party support from all party in this House , and it be the Conservative Whips Office that actually whip the conservative side of the House to implement section 40 , as David Cameron wish to happen . let we remember that in that Leveson inquiry , dozen of victim of phone hacking come forward to give evidence , and they do so because the Prime Minister have set up an inquiry and they feel that it be sincere and genuine , and that they could contribute . we all have have constituency case in which people have be through extraordinary tragedy , and it be painful for they ; but often people who have be through such tragedy want to know that something good have come from it . many of those witness who give evidence to the Leveson inquiry be the parent of child who have be murder , who have have their life rifle through by the medium , and they want something good to come out of that ; so they go through the trauma and the painful experience of share those experience , to try to help Parliament wrestle its way to a sensible compromise . so let we have no nonsense from the Government Front Bench , try to create some sort of wedge issue . this be a provision that the Conservative Government put in place , and the royal charter on self - regulation be a very conservative approach to deal with the challenge . my right hon . friend will forgive I if I have get hold of the wrong end of the stick . he be make a strong case for his amendment , but I have one nagging doubt in my mind . I understand that he believe that if his amendment be agree to and we remove the stick , newspaper will be protect from the rich and powerful , but what protection would remain for those who be not of mean ; those who do not have the money that they can risk in litigation to take on those publisher who may have defame or libel they , but who be not member of a regulatory body ? this be not just about the rich and powerful . there could be people who do not have any money who be affect by newspaper , and I be not clear how , in his new landscape , they would be affect . my right hon . friend make a powerful point , but I be seek to reach a compromise . his argument be for keep section 40 in its entirety , so that those who do not have financial mean and who face a publisher who refuse to act within any kind of reputable regulator would have some redress in the court . of course , in section 40 there be only a weighted presumption in favour of a particular approach to cost . it be never a hard and fast rule . my right hon . friend make a strong case , but I be seek to form a compromise with the House and with those on the Government Front Bench , and if it be their intention to do what the press want , they can accept my amendment and still look the press in the eye and say , " we give you everything you want , which be the removal of the stick . " maybe they hope they will get some positive coverage as a result of do this favour ; I suspect they will end up be disappoint by that between now and the general election . nevertheless , I be try to make a compromise with they . I hope that the Government will look seriously at this . will my right hon . friend help the House by say whether he have have any communication with the Guardian or Private Eye on this proposal ? I have multiple conversation with lot of publisher when the original Leveson architecture be put together , particularly around the royal charter . I know that Private Eye have always object to join anything at all , and it would be completely unaffected by the proposal . it be not a member of the Independent Press Standards Organisation , and it be never a member of the Press Complaints Commission . it have always remain entirely aloof , and there be nothing in the proposal that affect its position . nor would anything in the proposal affect , say , the Spectator , which also have a view that it would not join a recognise regulator . as I say , small publisher that want to do genuine investigative journalism and that do not have people with deep pocket stand behind they could benefit from the proposal by sign up to a recognise regulator . many of they be already member of Impress , which be the recognise regulator at the moment , but other may form different regulator or encourage IPSO to join and seek recognition , so that they can benefit from that cost protection . I intend to press amendment 2 to a division later . I hope the Government will recognise that they can accommodate the provision and that it can be consistent with their manifesto commitment . I hope that we will not hear any nonsense from the Front Bench about freedom of the press , because what I be suggest would strengthen the freedom of the press , rather than weaken it . I would like to run through a number of the amendment in my name , which have largely be promote by the National Union of Journalists . I will also say that new clause 2 appear to be part of the unfinished business of Leveson , which we need to move on fairly swiftly to ensure that people have proper redress and protection , while maintain the freedom of the press . I want to cover a number of issue in my amendment , such as the protection of public service broadcasting , diversity within the sector , medium literacy and the demand for consultation on medium change . new clause 21 would add a detailed description of the range of genre that Ofcom must report whether the public service broadcaster have make available . it would also give Ofcom the responsibility to measure the extent of public service broadcasting across specific genre and the ability to set quota if it feel that specific genre be not cover adequately . it come from a campaign by the Voice of the Listener & Viewer to protect the requirement in the psb ' remit to broadcast programme within specific genre . section 264 of the Communications Act 2003 set out in some detail the requirement on public service broadcasting across a whole range of different genre , include " cultural activity " , " the extent that be appropriate for facilitate civic understanding and fair and well - inform debate on news and current affair , " religion and so on . I will not go through the full list — it be very detailed . the problem be that the Bill , as it stand , update that position , but with a generalised list of what will be take into account and protect in term of the genre of audio - visual content . there be a general concern that that could lead to a number of specific area , such as science or religion , become vulnerable . there will still be a variety of genre that there be no specific requirement on public service broadcaster to broadcast . the Select Committee carry out pre - legislative scrutiny of the Bill raise the matter in its discussion . it feel that the Government ' s replace the list of specific commitment require of a public service broadcaster with a general remit be a " step too far " . the Government ' s response be that their amendment be simply a simplification . even the Chair of the Select Committee say the simplification of the remit and enforcement of it for Ofcom would come at a considerable cost . a number of piece of evidence submit to the Committee draw attention to area where the requirement on public service broadcaster could be significantly weaken , even to the point of the overall removal of content . I will quote the example give by Anna McNamee , the executive director of the Sandford St Martin Trust , about what be happen with regard to the coverage of religion . she say : " in 2003 ITV successfully lobby Ofcom for its PSB quota for art and religious content to be remove " and , unfortunately : " in 2015 Ofcom notice that ITV ' s provision of religion and ethic have all but cease . " the lesson from that draw to the Committee and the Minister ' s attention be that there be : " no quota : no obligation to do so " and that , under compete pressure , individual genre and section of broadcasting would be delete overall . what we feel be need in the legislation be a statutory requirement that , where there be an identification of societal value of a particular genre , Ofcom would be able to track the psb ' performance and ensure that the distinctive content be available to audience . that be a reflection of Ofcom ' s own concern so far . it have notice a decline in the provision of those genre . broadcasting legislation — until this Bill — have set out what be consider societally valuable content and define the remit of Ofcom and PSB in that way . unfortunately , this generalise statement within the Bill fail to enable that to happen in the future . my new clause 21 would provide Ofcom with strong power , with a clear remit of what should be protect and the ability to set quota if it consider current level in certain genre to be unsatisfactory . it should allow the regulator to stem the significant decline of those genre since 2013 . my new clause 22 would place a duty on public service broadcaster to publish their objective on the promotion of diversity and equality among the workforce and on Ofcom to monitor and report on the public service broadcaster ' performance on meet that requirement . that come out of an analysis of what be happen with regard to the diversity of the workforce in broadcasting . if public service broadcasting be to represent all sector of the UK population , the workforce should be truly representative . that be a general view that have be express across the House . Ofcom have recognise that broadcaster with advanced data collection practice tend to have more representative workforce . the new clause would far empower Ofcom to specify what kind of datum company should be require to monitor and publish , therefore ensure that they be look at the impact of their diversity policy . some of the figure on the lack of diversity in broadcasting be quite startling . if we take class as an example , people from working - class background be under - represent in the broadcasting sector . some 28 % of employee who provide datum be from a working - class background , below the UK population figure of 39 % . in term of gender diversity , man remain dominant in most senior role , in particular the important role of director — 74 . 5 % — and writer , with 67 . 3 % . the number of woman in senior role have actually drop in recent year from 46 . 8 % to 45 . 4 % . that have be decline continuously over the past four year . the figure for ethnicity be also pretty stark in term of the lack of representation . again , we be find that without adequate monitoring , there have be a lack of any form of influence to improve the situation . the Creative Diversity Network run a project call Diamond to monitor diversity , but a number of the union do not participate because the broadcaster have fail to share their statistic . nevertheless , there be significant contribution make by individual work offscreen and onscreen , reflect people ' s concern about the lack of diversity in term of gender , ethnicity and disability . there be stark figure that demonstrate the lack of representation in public service broadcasting . this new clause be simply intend to ensure that adequate statistic be provide and datum collect , and that Ofcom ' s monitoring and intervention power be strengthen . I once meet a young lady who be keen to work in television and she tell I that she want to be a presenter . however , because she wear a hijab , she be sure that she would never get to be a presenter — she have never see any presenter wear a hijab . do the right hon . Gentleman feel , as I do , that transparency in report those figure would help make clear to everybody what diversity be lack ? the reason for this new clause — I be not push it to a vote or anything — be to encourage the debate far , because we seem to have hit a brick wall , or a glass ceiling , whichever hon . member prefer . part of the reason those attitude persist be the lack of ethnic minority , particularly in senior position . the figure for black , asian or minority ethnic community member in all senior role be just 13 % , an under - representation compare with the population ; for senior producer it be 5 . 5 % and for head of production it be 7 . 4 % . south asian representation offscreen at all level have actually fall to 2 . 4 % , less than half of the figure in the population as a whole , which be around 5 % . the reason for this new clause be to stimulate debate because , in addition to the failure of the exist system to maintain level , we be go backwards in some area . not only be the number of people with disability in senior role at a low level , but it have not change in four year . there need to be great intervention and more power to monitor and to require the delivery of statistic , and there need to be proper participation by public service broadcaster in that . Ofcom also need the ability to intervene more effectively . just quickly , because other hon . member want to speak , I will say that new clause 23 be intend to place on public service broadcaster a duty to report on media literacy . it would introduce a requirement for public service broadcaster to take appropriate step to improve level of medium literacy among their audience and allow Ofcom to monitor that to see how the public broadcaster be pursue that medium literacy requirement . the reason for this new clause be that thing have move on since the Communications Act 2003 . I remember that debate at that point be around teletext ; the huge expansion of social medium have not be anticipate , still less the arrival of artificial intelligence . I do not think I need to stress in this House the importance of counter misinformation , disinformation , fake news , conspiracy theory and the like across social medium , or the need to raise the issue of medium literacy more widely . public service broadcaster have an even great role and duty now not only to provide impartial and accurate information , but to increase media literacy and make great effort to reach all age group in the UK , particularly young people . the BBC ' s Marianna Spring , as people will know , be charge with cover some of these issue for the BBC , and a number of other broadcaster try independently to check the veracity of factual claim or to make an assessment of the credibility of source , particularly in area where there be conflict around the world . however , there be a need now to be more explicit about the issue that people face in the interpretation of medium . for that reason , it be time for a duty to be place upon public service broadcaster to develop media literacy strategy , which will enable the receiver of their broadcast to well understand and well cut through some of the misinformation that be be purvey . there have be debate in this House already about the need for a great recognition within the medium itself of the threat pose by artificial intelligence . we have already see the danger of artificially generate news story and image , with report of inaccurate datum be use to inform artificial intelligence - generate story , false attribution to journalist and creator , and people discover that their likeness have be use without their knowledge or consent . that be why the NUJ be try to encourage the debate about who be responsible for raise the level medium literacy . new clause 23 would simply put a statutory duty upon public service broadcaster to develop and publish a strategy for what they be do to raise media literacy , and give Ofcom a role in monitor that . new clause 24 be a requirement for public service broadcaster to report on their consultation with the public , viewer and listener . a number of member of the House be involve in the discussion with the BBC about local radio service and the cutback that be take place , with no consultation with the recipient of the local radio service , the listener themselves . we see the same with regard to the BBC ' s news channel and BBC World Service cutback . we find that there be group who be not consult or engage whatsoever . as a result , we believe that poor decision be make . it be within the BBC ' s governance framework and the royal charter to highlight public service broadcaster ' obligation to regularly consult the general public and key demographic of viewer and listener when make key decision about programming and service to local community . that seem to have fall down dramatically in recent year . it be also important that other public service broadcaster be place under that obligation . new clause 24 put public service broadcaster under an obligation to develop and publish a strategy for maintain regular consultation , and give Ofcom a duty to report on whether that be be undertake appropriately . although the new clause do not deal with this , we urge the Government to ensure that there be a recognition in the negotiation on the licence fee next time around that there be a proper process for the BBC to consult , rather than try to negotiate secret deal with the Government . my final point be on amendment 87 . the issue here , which relate to amendment from other hon . member that I will be support , be require a provider of regulated television selection to give significant prominence to designate internet programme service . it be vital that the digital platform for on - demand tv do not exclude public service broadcasting content or relegate it to hard - to - find recess of their site . the wording of the Bill require such content to be give appropriate prominence , which we fear be too weak . raise the requirement to significant prominence would well ensure that public service broadcasting have the level of prominence that the view public would expect . there be other amendment that I welcome and support , particularly new clause 5 and 7 , as they extend the variety of and the commitment to public service broadcasting and the content that viewer would want to see . for information , I intend to call those who have table amendment before other member . I call Sir John Whittingdale . you be absolutely right , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I have an amendment that I would like to speak to . it might be slightly unusual for the person who be the Minister take the Bill through Committee then to seek to amend the Bill on Report , but I be sure it be not unprecedented , and I hope my amendment be nevertheless helpful to the Government . it be certainly my intention that it should be . I have take the Bill through Committee , and it have already be subject to a lot of scrutiny by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , in this House and in the other place , and with the publication of a draft Bill . I be therefore slightly surprised to see the number of Government amendment that have be table . Most be relatively minor and technical , and I welcome the measure that would correct the anomaly around independent national radio , require it to continue to broadcast on am , even though few and few people be now access radio by those mean . it be right to remove that anomaly . amendment 78 address local television , which be the invention of my right hon . friend the Member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) . although it have have a somewhat chequer history , it be successful in a number of area across the country , particularly outside London . rightly , the Government have consult recently on whether they believe there be a long - term future for local tv , and I be optimistic they will conclude that they would like it to continue . the Bill will ensure that those broadcaster that the Government regard as make an important contribution should continue to thrive in a different medium landscape . that be the purpose of the prominence provision , which safeguard public service broadcaster to ensure that whatever mean viewer choose to access television , they can find those public service broadcaster easily . local television be not currently include on the list of channel that should have due prominence . as we move forward into an age when more and more people rely on internet protocol television to access channel , it will become increasingly hard for they if local tv be not obviously available on IPTV set . I have a Sky Glass television , which be an IPTV set , and at the moment I can not get local television on it at all . one reason for that — and the reason the Government have previously give for not include local tv on the list of channel to be give prominence — be the absence of an app to deliver local tv . when I be fill in for the Minister over the past few month I have a meeting with local tv and be tell that an app will be forthcoming quite soon that will allow local television to be receive by IPTV . the Government suggest in a letter to my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) that they see a difficulty with that , and that because there be a large number of local television channel it would be difficult to give all of they individual prominence . however , I be assure by local television that they intend to come forward with a single app , which will be available on a number of major platform and ensure that a specifically choose geographical location in the country will receive the specific local tv channel that be appropriate for that area . we be only talk about one app . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport say in his letter that the Government will continue to monitor the situation and consider increase the availability of local content . as we know , medium Bills do not come along every day , and this be our single opportunity to update the law cover the range of medium service . it be likely that there will not be another opportunity for some considerable time . my amendment would allow Ofcom , at a future date , to recommend the inclusion of a local tv app , as and when it emerge , in the prominence regime . it would ensure that the Bill future - proof the regime so that it can be amend in such a way . I hope the Government will consider adopt that measure . I understand it be unlikely that they will accept my amendment , but I ask the Minister whether she will continue to look at this issue and , if the Government believe it be appropriate , consider table an amendment to that effect in the House of Lords . on new clause 3 , regard the abolition of section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 , I be slightly surprised to learn from my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) that the inclusion of a firm pledge to repeal section 40 , which be not just in the 2017 conservative manifesto but repeat in that of 2019 , be a drafting error . it do not strike I at the time that either the initial pledge or the second one be draft error . be my right hon . friend say that there be no draft error in the 2017 manifesto ? there may have be — I be not quite sure which other my right hon . friend might be refer to , but I be pretty certain that that be not one of they . nobody ever say that they object to the cost protection for the press contain in section 40 . the argument against section 40 be always shorthand argument that essentially claim falsely that it would require publisher to pay the cost of other — and that only relate to one small part of section 40 . my right hon . friend be right , but as I think I point out on Second Reading , not a single major publisher have choose to apply for recognition by the Press Recognition Panel through join a recognise regulator . but be that not precisely because the Government fail to move the incentive that encourage people to join ? as the Minister responsible , who say that we would not implement section 40 , I have considerable talk . it be make plain that if the Government have implement section 40 , no major publisher would apply for recognition . my right hon . friend talk about the carrot and stick , and his new clause would require the Government to look for alternative incentive to encourage publisher to apply for recognition , even if the exist carrot and stick be remove . he do not go into detail in his speech about what alternative incentive there might be ; it sound slightly like a reference to Marlon Brando ' s make " an offer you can ' t refuse " . the press have be absolutely plain : they object to any regulator that carry the stamp of Government approval . that be the fundamental principle that have cause every publisher to say that they will not apply for recognition . my right hon . friend know that it be not a government regulator . the Press Recognition Panel be establish by the royal charter on self - regulation of the press . the conservative party establish that as a royal charter rather than a regulatory body for precisely that reason — to accommodate that wish of the press . I do not suggest it be a Government regulator , but nevertheless , any regulator that require Government approval through the Press Recognition Panel be view by the press as have a Government stamp of approval , which they regard as unacceptable . my right hon . Friend speak about the discussion he have , but he would agree that the stick and the carrot at that time be think to be necessary to persuade red - top publisher such as the Daily Mail and the Sun to join a regulator recognise by the PRP . what I do not think he anticipate — indeed , nobody anticipate it at the time — be that not a single major publisher would agree to co - operate with the regime that be be put in place . that include the Guardian , the Independent , the Observer and the Financial Times . not one major publisher say that it would co - operate with the system that be put in place , so it have plainly fail . for that reason alone the Government should revisit the issue , remove section 40 , and instead encourage those who do not currently accept the ruling of an independent regulator to join the one in existence , which be IPSO . I know that my right hon . friend and I will not agree on this point , but his suggestion that it be somehow an oversight to include a commitment to repeal in the manifesto of 2017 and 2019 be simply not correct . he will be aware that there be unanimity among all the major publisher that section 40 represent an attack on media freedom . it be not just the publisher who hold that view ; many campaign organisation , such as reporter without Borders , have actually downgrade the UK ' s press freedom rating because of the existence of section 40 , and it be certainly view as an infringement of media freedom . this be one of the issue on which my right hon . friend and I agree . may I suggest that those who wish to follow this up afterwards read a book call " the Laughter of Triumph " , by Ben Wilson ? it be about William Hone and the fight for a free press back in 1817 . the press should not be force into any Government regulation ; there should be the law of the land , and that be it . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend . I hope that this be not the only issue on which we agree , but it be certainly one on which we hold the same view . for that reason , I be sorry that my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) will press his new clause to a vote , because I shall not support he on it . we should remind ourselves why we be here : it be because those who be describe by Alan Bates , the leader of the Horizon scandal complainant , as " small , skinny people " need redress against the huge , overbearing press . the hack Off website point out that in 2021 , only 0 . 6 % of more than 14 , 000 complaint be uphold by IPSO — only 88 case in total , which be a minuscule number . be that a sign that the system be work ? I do not think success can be judge simply on the number of complaint uphold . indeed , as we have see in other organisation , such as the BBC , we may find that a large number of those complaint relate to a single issue that have generate a great deal of concern . it be not as simple as , " there be x thousand complaint , and only so many be uphold . " generally , however , IPSO be definitely an improvement on the Press Complaints Commission , which go before it . it be not perfect — no regulator ever be — and I myself have criticise it for not have yet impose any fine , but the atmosphere surround the behaviour of the press be very different from what it be when , for instance , Hacked Off be create , and when I chair the inquiry on phone hacking , which lead to the establishment of Sir Brian Leveson ' s report . I do not want to detain the House any long . I intend to press the Government , but not as far as a vote ; I should say that I urge the Government to look at way in which they can support local television through my amendment . give the point about section 40 , I can not support the new clause table by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth . I want to express my gratitude for the fact that the Bill have be prioritise in this new term , and be progress quickly . for our public service broadcaster in particular , this legislation be long overdue . I want to refer to my amendment about the language surround prominence for psb such as the BBC , ITV and Channel 4 . the Bill give public service content an " appropriate " level of prominence on online service , which should make it easy to find not only the app that take we to the BBC or ITV on a smart tv , but to find those channel on the traditional tv guide with which we be all familiar . however , the Culture , Media and Sport Committee make the suggestion , which I have table in the form of an amendment , that the word " appropriate " be perhaps unhelpfully subjective , and should be replace with " significant " . the prominence of psb be an existential issue that should not be underestimate , so I ask the Government to consider that suggestion as the Bill progress . I thank the hon . gentleman for table his amendment . I strongly agree with he : the issue can not just be leave in the air , give the importance of public service broadcasting . I therefore think that the guidance for Ofcom should be strong than the Government have recognise so far . I look forward to hear from the Minister what they propose to do about that . I thank the right hon . member for her intervention . let I move on to the subject of Channel 4 and the removal of the restriction on in - house production . I have concern about that change to Channel 4 ' s model , which have work extremely well for a long time , although the previous Secretary of State be not so keen on its existence — or , at least , its future . Channel 4 have historically support the independent production sector throughout the UK , in place such as my constituency in the far north of Scotland , but there be concern that allow it to create its own content could destabilise the sector . give the Government ' s track record on Channel 4 , my ultimate fear be that this could be use as a stick with which to beat the channel , although I hope that do not happen . that be say , Channel 4 and the independent production sector be integral to each other , which be why I be glad to see the channel ' s qualify independent commitment to the sector increase to 40 % , and to hear that any change be likely to be very gradual , allow the market to adjust accordingly . that can only be a good thing . I come to the new clause table by the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) on list event . the Government must take his proposal forward , so that major sporting event such as the Olympics , the Euros , Wimbledon and the World cup remain free to air in their entirety . in an increasingly digital - first world , digital right must be include in the list event regime . let I turn to a subject that be close to my heart . early this week , Ben Stokes say that England ' s test win over India be his " great triumph " since he have become England ' s captain . I think we can all take pleasure in that , regardless of which of the four corner of the United Kingdom we inhabit . I acknowledge the nod from my colleague on the Scottish National party Benches , the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) , for which I thank he courteously . I feel that this sort of share cultural moment should be available for everyone to watch on free - to - air television . my amendment would enable people to see a cricket test and a one - day international on free - to - air tv each summer , and I hope that member will strongly consider support it . on the subject of local radio — something that I have mention in the past , and be beat up about when I be a councillor long ago — I table amendment 7 to 13 to broaden the scope of the requirement in local radio broadcasting licence , so that the current scope of " local material " as " news , information and other speak material and music " be retain . if only I could have hear myself say those word all those year ago ! I can see the good that it do . it would not be right for the BBC to be leave as sole provider of local speech radio . on a similar point , I welcome part 6 of the Bill , which safeguard the future of the industry with relation to voice - activate smart device . local radio be integral to uphold democracy — a point make many time by many of we in this place . it provide trust news and information , particularly during an emergency , as we see during covid , and also provide entertainment . that be especially important to my constituent , who , as may be imagine , often face long drive across very large rural area . new clause 3 and amendment 2 to 4 relate to section 40 and our press , a subject already mention by a number of Members today . ten year ago , all the party make commitment to the victim of press abuse that we would introduce the system of regulation recommend in the Leveson report to protect the public from press wrongdoing . we in this country benefit from a vibrant and rich medium , as be point out in an urgent question early today , but whereas our broadcasting medium be the envy of the world , our print medium languish at the bottom of international league table when it come to public trust and confidence . however , the Government now seek to repeal section 40 , although they have no plan to replace it with any alternative mechanism of independent and impartial regulation . that not only leave local and independent newspaper unable to defend themselves against expensive litigation in the form of strategic lawsuit against public participation , but make it hard for a normal person to take legal action against a large publisher . as they say , those with the deep pocket win . these amendment offer two way forward . new clause 3 and amendment 3 and 4 would permit the repeal of section 40 , but not before there have be a consultation on alternative incentive for the Leveson system . amendment 2 would repeal the part of section 40 that would disadvantage unregulated newspaper , but keep the part that protect local independent title that have do the right thing and sign up to regulation . under either of those amendment , national newspaper would face no detriment at all for their potentially bad behaviour — there be no free speech reason to object to they — but they allow we to show our support for the victim of press abuse and for the underlie principle of independent regulation . many sensible amendment have be table to this Bill , and I be glad that the majority of we in the House and , indeed , the industry be singe from the same hymn sheet . the world and the way in which our medium operate have change beyond recognition since the Communications Act 2003 , and I and my party will be very pleased to watch this Bill make its way swiftly through both Houses , so that our legislation at last reflect the world we live in today . I close by pay tribute to member for the great effort that have be make on all side of this House to make sure that this legislation be fit for purpose . I call the Father of the House . I be grateful to the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for preview the suggestion that time - shift excerpt from list event be available through public service broadcaster . I regret that test match be not presently list event , because I think that this country would have want to see the remarkable part of the test match in India this week . some people may have only read press description of Ben Stokes do a backhand flip to the wicket . that can be well describe by people such as Neville Cardus and his successor , but it be even well to watch it in real life . I believe that the number of list event should be expand . however , as the BBC and other have remind we , the number of people watch event on the other side of the world at midnight or four in the morning might be 400 , 000 , whereas those who would want to watch those event the next day might be 4 million or 14 million . I believe that the new clause should be accept , and I hope that the Minister will say some comfort word . like many other , I do not propose to push my new clause to a Division today , but I do hope that the Government will respond by table an amendment or a new clause in the House of Lords that have the same effect . I could read out my full briefing , but the point have be well make by the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross , and may be make by other . what be the reason for embrace the future ? it be not just about linear television ; there be the opportunity for other right . so many right be buy by commercial business outside this country . what do they care about what happen in one part of the world broadcasting framework ? we must have a requirement to stop those who think they can make money by make most people not watch key event , and make those who do watch pay a lot . People should be able to watch coverage on ordinary public service broadcasting . my belief be that , for major event , the competition between the public service broadcaster will be sufficient to ensure a fair return for those who buy the right . I do not believe in have an unrestricted auction , so that people can buy right that will exclude most people in the country from watch sporting event of great importance . there have be example of right holder — Sky have do this well — make an event available on normal public service broadcasting , as well as on their own service , when one of our national team have get into a final . I pay tribute to Sky for do that . I want to follow up on the word of the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who talk about genre in public service broadcasting . I think I would table an amendment or a new clause that do what he argue for . I believe that Ofcom should have an explicit duty to make sure that public service broadcaster be hold to account and explain how they be meet the requirement for the various part of public service broadcasting . public service broadcasting can be very interesting and fully commercial ; a large number of people may want to watch it , and it may be very popular , but not necessarily . religion , science and many other area list in the right hon . member ' s amendment 86 be important . I say to the Government : pay attention to what he have say , look to Colin Browne for what viewer and listener have say , and accept the amendment , so that the requirement be explicit , and the response by the public service broadcaster be open . I believe that we can make a success of this Bill . I know that broadcasting regulation be normally about 10 year behind the technology , and I remember that about 30 year ago , David Mellor have to change a virtually complete Bill on Report because so much have change between the Bill be draft and its Third reading in the House of Commons . I believe that we can make a major change , and I can sum this up to the Government in word that someone have offer I , which be absolutely right : " Don ' t let this opportunity pass by . the time to act be now . once these moment go behind a paywall , that ' s the final whistle . " let we make all major event available to all people , at least in excerpt , so that they can watch they in daylight . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I refer hon . and right hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank all colleague , particularly my hon . friend the Members for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) and for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Mr Bradshaw ) , for their service on the Public Bill Committee and for do really diligent and careful work . in general , my colleague on the Labour Benches and I be supportive of this Bill . it have be too long in the making , and the delay have hold back the UK ' s world - lead public service broadcaster . they have also affect the productivity of the creative industry as a whole , and the public service broadcast sector be such a large and important part of the creative industry and their commissioning . the last time broad change be enact for our public service broadcaster be in 2003 . I think we can all agree that the world be now a very different place , but well late than never . broadly speak , I believe this be a good Bill , and we support it . our public service broadcaster be a fundamental part of british cultural life . if we do not have they , we would want to invent they , and this Bill give they and the wide broadcasting industry the tool they need to survive in the modern world . the Bill contain crucial measure to ensure that UK broadcaster can thrive in a digital age by protect radio service when they be access on smart speaker , and by ensure the fair prominence of public service broadcaster on smart tv . I will return to the question of prominence shortly . however , the Bill do not take full advantage of the opportunity it create to shape the broadcasting industry for the next decade . although we will not seek to disrupt or delay the passage of the Bill , there be area where we believe it can and should be strengthen and improve . I hope the Minister will listen to our suggestion in the new clause and amendment stand in my name and that of my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East . new clause 9 concern child ' s television . for many child and young people , public service broadcasting be an important part of how they learn and in particular how they learn to understand the world — it be a central part of how their curiosity be ignite . the Bill as draft fail to recognise that importance by neglect to try to understand how the view habit of child and young people be change . provision for child by public service broadcaster be under threat because so few child now watch live tv . the top - rate programme on CBBC attract as few as 50 , 000 viewer . child carry entertainment in their pocket , and they can and do switch between various app and platform in a matter of second , which be understandably affect investment in child ' s programming . that create a vicious cycle : as investment and resource decline , so too do the quality of the output . instead of try to provide high - quality , uniquely british public service content for child , broadcaster be then force to prioritise profitable content that offer little public value and can be sell internationally . our new clause 9 would enable the Government to take an important first step , recognise the problem and explore route forward . it would be a shame not to take advantage of this opportunity to shape child ' s programming for the future , in what be suppose to be a forward - look piece of legislation . I ask the Minister to give that some consideration . the Bill also fail to go far enough on age classification . the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) and for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) have table amendment in this area , for which I thank they , alongside our new clause 14 , which show the breadth of feeling across the House . all these amendment look to tackle the same underlying issue , which be that there be no consistency in how age rating be currently use on streaming site . parent and child alike deserve to be able to have full confidence in age rating so that when they pick something to watch , they can trust that it will be safe and age - appropriate . rating must be easily understand and recognisable by the public and underpin by a transparent set of criterion that take into account british attitude on everything from swear to violence and anything else we might think of . new clause 14 do not , in my view , overengineer the issue . it do not require every on - demand service to use any specific age rating provider , although we should collectively recognise that the British Board of Film Classification be a great example of good practice . our public service broadcaster already follow stringent rule , which may mean that age rating be not appropriate for their content , but where age rating be already use , there should be clear criterion against which Ofcom can measure their success and quality . the Bill also fall short when it come to digital right to list event . list event have already generate some debate , and I have a great deal of sympathy with the point make by other hon . and right hon . member about various sporting event . this legislation be suppose to contribute to the future - proofing of public service broadcaster , but I feel that to do that it need to go far . our new clause 10 seek to address that . the right to broadcast moment of national sporting importance be offer first to channel such as the BBC and ITV , enable the broad possible range of british people to watch the like of Wimbledon and the Olympics . we agree with the aim of the Bill , which be to protect and modernise the system , while make a few change to ensure that it be appropriate in the digital age , but unfortunately the Bill fall short in this regard . by not extend the regime to include online clip and highlight , the Bill risk prevent thousand upon thousand of people from feel the joy of watch british athlete or cricketer compete on the world stage , particularly when those competition be happen far away , as happen this week with Ben Stokes and co . consider that the next man ' s football World cup and the next two Olympics after Paris 2024 — will the hon . Lady give way ? I be happy to give way . the shadow Secretary of State mention sporting event . in addition to protect the Six Nations for we all in group a , would she accept the principle that Scottish , Welsh and Northern Irish football fan should have the same access to their national team as english fan do at present ? of course I would , and I be glad to confirm what my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East say in Committee . if the hon . Gentleman be try to press I on a specific aspect , I be also happy to confirm that we would support the new clause table in his name if it be push to a vote . I will be interested to see whether colleague in his party will support our new clause on Gaelic broadcasting , as they seem not to vote for it in Committee . it will be interesting to see whether they take up that challenge as well . it be likely that , even in the near future , key sporting moment will take place in the middle of the night in this country . despite the fact that Conservative Ministers order a review of this in 2022 , there be simply nothing in this Bill as draft to update the list event rule so that clip or highlight from those event do not get stick behind a paywall . our new clause 10 seek to guarantee that action be take on this issue , but it be flexible enough to accommodate whatever mechanism be identify as most appropriate follow their review . I also note new clause 7 , in the name of the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , which be more prescriptive than our but address the same issue . if Ministers can not lend their support to either of these amendment , they should at the very least publish the response to the review in full . it would be helpful if the Government take up the suggestion from my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East that criterion be publish , so that we get a clear sense , rather than have this ad hoc debate — sympathetic though I may be to certain sporting event . there be the question of national fairness — that be a principle — and also the question of what criterion we should use to add to the listing regime . new clause 12 seek to fix another problem with the Bill , which be that it fail to take the rise popularity of podcast into account . I have mention podcast before on the Floor of the House , and it give I great pleasure to mention they again when discuss the regulation of selection service for audio content . some 10 million adult listen to podcast every week . it be emerge as a format that encourage collaboration , new partnership , interesting discussion and the presence of a range of politician and other personality who have something interesting or unique to say . it seem counterintuitive , therefore , to exclude this fast - grow audio medium from the Bill . for example , the Bill as draft guarantee access to the LBC breakfast show with Nick Ferrari but not to " the News Agents " podcast . some of we will be listen to both , and we expect similar treatment for both . this new clause would simply provide that consistency . new clause 11 be design to ensure that public service content be available to linear service as well as online . part 1 of the Media Bill introduce new measure to allow public service broadcaster to meet some of their remit requirement through their online service and on - demand channel . give that streaming and on - demand be grow rapidly , this seem a reasonable forward - look change . however , there be still million of people who watch their television through a traditional broadcast set - up . this group of people primarily include old resident , family in rural area and those struggle with bill as a result of the cost of living crisis . it be crucial that they can still access public service content as usual . this new clause would give Ofcom the mean to assess whether public service broadcasting delivery on linear service be adequate ; and , if it find that provision to be inadequate , it would have the power to set bind quota . I have already mention new clause 13 , which encourage the Secretary of State to consider and take advice on whether a Gaelic language service should be recognise as a public service broadcaster in its own right . this be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East in Committee . BBC Alba , the Gaelic language television service provide by MG Alba and the BBC , be a huge asset , provide a wide range of high quality programming for gaelic speaker to enjoy and sustain around 340 job , half of which be in economically fragile area . however , despite apparent cross - party support for the service , gaelic language broadcasting be still not recognise in legislation across the board in the same way as other minority language service be . that be not to say that gaelic language broadcasting can be directly compare to Welsh broadcasting , for example , but it be an acknowledgment of the importance of language to our cultural life . language be a daily expression of our history , and gaelic language broadcasting be an important forum for that expression . it should therefore be consider for recognition in law . I really hate to say this , but it be worth point out , in the context of Gaelic and Welsh , that the situation for Gaelic be very precarious indeed . it be strong enough in some of the Western Isles , but we need to remember that it need to be nurture big time now . the hon . Gentleman make a valid and valuable contribution . my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East , the shadow Minister with responsibility for medium , have meet those body recently . we understand the point that he be make and take they fully on board . this new clause , table in my name and that of my hon . friend , be not prescriptive as to how we break the cycle ; it leave multiple option open to the Secretary of State . I turn to clause 50 and the amendment table in the name of the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who make his point early . the phone hack scandal lead to section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 . that scandal involve egregious act , and the treatment of victim of crime or tragedy by some section of the medium be a disgusting abuse of power . we all say that that should never be repeat . the majority of british journalist be decent and honourable , but there be some who even now continue to drag the good name of that profession into disrepute . that profession be a cornerstone of our democracy and it be important that the public be able to trust it , but at the moment we be at risk of the public lose faith in the profession of journalism , as be certainly also the case before section 40 be create and before that scandal be expose . we on the Labour Benches want a press that be regulate in a way that make it accountable for its reporting and that meet the high ethical and journalistic standard . we want to see a financially sustainable free press in the UK that can carry on hold power to account . clause 50 repeal section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act , but if the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth push his amendment 2 to a Division this evening , we will support it , because it offer a way through by keep some of what he refer to as the carrot . indeed , by remove some of the stick , his amendment would incentivise more publisher to join up with an approve regulator , for the reason that he have outline much more coherently and clearly than I can now . we thank he for work co - operatively with we . it be interesting to hear that the opposition intend to support my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , as they abstain in Committee . if a future Labour Government repeal section 40 , would they put in place an equivalent or similar measure ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , but I be speak about amendment 2 , which we will support for the reason that the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth set out . I want to see publisher protect from defamation case bring by russian oligarch and other wealthy individual or corporation look to evade scrutiny in the public interest . the Government have promise to do more to protect people from slapp , but they have yet to come forward with concrete proposal . we would like to see those measure bring forward , as they be need to secure our free press . we also look forward to see the private Member ' s Bill of my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) on this subject . it be an important principle that ordinary citizen should be able to access justice . as the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth say , amendment 2 would remove the stick . if that encourage more publisher to join the approve regulator , it would create more compliance with the arbitration scheme , which be another reason why we support the amendment . how will the Government protect publisher from slapp and give complainant access to justice ? I acknowledge the amendment and new clause table by my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . in addition to cover many of the issue that I also support , he clearly care about the care that public service broadcaster should take in consulting and fully represent their audience in both their workforce and their output . I ask every culture , medium and sport organisation I meet , " where be the woman ? where be the people of colour ? where be the people from working - class community ? " those question have to be answer both horizontally and vertically , and my right hon . Friend make that case extremely well . before closing , I wish to raise a couple of concern with the Minister on Government amendment 37 to 39 . those amendment appear to lack clarity and purpose , and they may weaken the position of public service broadcaster in future negotiation with commercial broadcaster . I urge the Government to reconsider they , and at least to make it clear to the House what problem they be try to solve . we support the Bill in general term . I hope Members will join I in support the amendment I have outline , include amendment 2 table by the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth and our new clause 13 on Gaelic . we feel that these amendment would strengthen the Bill , benefit people across the country and help to support our broadcaster in the come year . I be pleased to speak in support of amendment 18 , table in my name and the name of other hon . member . I generally welcome this Bill as a valiant attempt to bring the law and regulation up to date in a fast - move sector of our society , namely broadcast and on - screen entertainment . I will focus on part 4 , which deal with on - demand programme service and , in particular , clause 38 , which will usher in a comprehensive review , to be undertake by Ofcom , of audience protection and the production of a video on demand code . this welcome Bill reflect how many people watch their entertainment today . my two old grandchild , age 19 and 18 , rarely watch anything on television , but they be always on their tablet or smartphone . they have no concept of see what be on the box in the evening , and maybe even record it , as my wife and I still do . they simply source and download what they want to watch , when they want to watch it , via video on demand . it be therefore important that we ensure the very good protection be in place , not so much for they — they be both adult now — but for my 12 - year - old granddaughter , my seven - year - old grandson and even my two - year - old granddaughter , who have her own tablet on which she watch " Peppa Pig " and " the wheel on the Bus " — I can confirm that the wheel go round an awful lot . [ laughter . ] after 20 year , I be so sick of hear that song . ensure adequate audience protection measure for video on demand be vital , and clause 38 make a commendable start , but I believe that amendment 18 — shade of which be mirror in amendment table by member on both side of the House , as be mention by the shadow Secretary of State — would enhance that protection . the amendment contain the follow reasonable provision : " when consider the adequacy of age rating , OFCOM must report on the extent to which any age rating use by provider be — ( a ) clear and well understand by consumer ; ( b ) underpin by a published and transparent set of standard ; and ( c ) inform by regular and substantive consultation with the UK public . " I do not think that be ask too much , and I therefore hope the Government will consider it carefully . the Government have say that the Bill ' s objective be to bring in " strong protection from harmful or age - inappropriate show through a new Ofcom … video - on - demand Code " . amendment 18 simply set out objective criterion to achieve this aim with regard to age rating . all it require be that age rating be clear , transparent and reflect UK expectation about what be age appropriate . that be not a high bar to expect service to meet . as other have say , we be very fortunate in the UK to have a try and trust classifier of content , namely the British Board of Film Classification , which have be age - rate our movie ever since I first go to the picture in Tiverton to see James Bond in " Thunderball " — I wonder how many colleague remember that underwater film — and probably for a lot long than that . the BBFC now rate online content and video on demand . opinion poll and survey tell we that parent understand and trust the BBFC ' s rating system . my informal survey of parent in my constituency over the past few week have confirm that . it be the gold standard , and the threshold against which Ofcom can consider the sector as a whole . it be therefore reassure that Netflix , Apple and Amazon all use BBFC rating for their video content . amendment 18 would not force every content producer to use BBFC rating , but it would help to ensure that each rating system be fit for purpose . that be the bare minimum we can do to prevent commercial VOD service from expose child to harmful content because , sadly , all be not well in this sector . it grieve I to say that that be particularly so in relation to Disney . the current rating free - for - all have see Disney + classify scene of sexual abuse as suitable for nine - year - old and scene of graphic , misogynistic violence or offensive antisemitic stereotype as suitable for 12 - year - old . that be low than it classify some of its " Star Wars " and superhero content . until we hold service to a minimum standard , we risk erode public trust in age rating as a child - protection measure , and thus perpetuate this entirely preventable harm . the problem with Disney and Disney + be that , for most of we , the brand conjure a sense of safety and security that be no long warrant . when people of my generation hear the word Disney , we think of " Bambi " or " Cinderella " , so the think that our grandchild be in the next room watch a Disney + video be intrinsically reassuring . but that would be an error of judgment , because much of its content be now dark and explicit . Disney ' s rating system be very different from the BBFC ' s , and it be base on a dutch system . transparency and consistency must be part of the new VOD code , and Ofcom should consider the current lack of coherence and consistency in its review and future work . amendment 18 do not seek to change the scope of the Bill or prevent new innovation in audience protection . it be not about mandate any particular solution . Most of we know and respect BBFC age rating , but nobody will be force to adopt age rating where they be not appropriate or not expect , such as on service operate by public service broadcaster . it be purely about set objective benchmark standard to ensure that , where age rating be use , they be effective for the purpose of child protection . as that be the state purpose of the Bill , I hope the amendment will attract Government support . it be not my intention to divide the House on amendment 18 , but I hope that the excellent Minister will introduce similar amendment in the other place . if she do not , I be confident that similar amendment will be table in the other place that be likely to be support , and I certainly would not vote against they when they come back to this place . I call the SNP spokesperson . I want to respond briefly to the issue just raise by the hon . member for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) . I wonder whether he have look at my new clause 20 . the definition of " on - demand service " be not as he imagine . in the Communications Act 2003 , it cover only those service whose " principal purpose " be the provision of programme , so service such as those on the iPad or console would not be cover by the legislation as it stand . the legislation be specifically about those whose principal purpose be to do with provide programme . it will cover Fire stick , for example , or Sky Glass , as be mention by the Minister , but it will not cover those people watch on a PlayStation or on - demand service on iPads , so the prominence regime would not apply for those who be not watch on something whose " principal purpose " be television . anything in the Bill that relate specifically to on - demand service , therefore , even when it come to age rating or some of the other requirement we be put on on - demand service , will apply only to Sky Glass , Fire tv and those sort of thing . that be why I table new clause 20 , which would amend the Bill to recognise how quickly thing move , as a number of member have point out . the way that we consume medium change very regularly , and it have certainly change dramatically in the 20 year since a media Bill be previously propose . I therefore ask Ministers to look at the definition of on - demand service and consider whether it continue to be appropriate ; if it do not , new clause 20 would ensure that Ofcom be able to regulate all those place where people watch television . I originally table the new clause because of the incredibly high percentage , comparatively , of people in Scotland who watch television exclusively on console , without the PSB prominence that we might expect in service that be specifically for stream tv . I will speak to a number of the amendment table by member across the House , start with those table by the SNP . I have cover my concern about the definition of on - demand service , and generally I do not think that the Bill as draft be all - encompass enough . the issue of small studio , which be cover in our amendment 82 to 85 , be raise with I by the Media Reform Coalition . have quota for independent studio be good , but some broadcaster have a predilection to use only the super - indie , which account for about 20 % of the company that make independent production ; the small indie account for about 80 % . some broadcaster commission almost everything from that 20 % of the market , from company such as Endemol . those company do a great job , but they can not be consider to be small independent studio . amendment 82 to 85 would encourage public service broadcaster to move outside the scope of those large independent studio and to give some of their work to small studio , which would have significant regional benefit . new clause 1 , which be table by the hon . member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) , look at how the region be account for , the production hour in each of the region , and make sure that production be genuinely regional production , rather than a lift - and - shift from somewhere else . those issue be important . look at the quota system for stuff be do outside the M25 , for example , be not enough . amendment 82 to 85 would augment the regional quota recommendation propose by the hon . member for Arfon . if broadcasting company have to look at the small independent studio , it would naturally encourage an increase in regional production . I have one last point to make about the SNP amendment that have not be cover so much by other people . new clause 22 , table by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , be similar to my new clause 19 on the diversity of the workforce . that be incredibly important . I make the point in an intervention that I be concern by the lack of diversity in public service broadcasting . I be concern by that lack of diversity on and off screen . it be important to look at both area when consider the future of psb . this be not about stick , nor be it about carrot ; it be about transparency . it be about ensure that all individual be transparent about whether they be meet the test of have something that look like the general population . it be clear that Parliament do not match the diversity of the population , give the incredibly large percentage of man in comparison with woman still in this place , even though it have be go in the right direction . however , we need people on screen to reflect the population . I be watch the Holocaust Memorial Day commemoration event on Saturday night and there be a dance group , I think call chickenshed . it be the first time that I have see on television a dance group involve someone in a wheelchair . it do not strike I how unusual that be until I see it on television . then I think , " why be this not more common ? why do we not see more people who look like the general population on tv on a more regular basis ? " that be one of those moment that bring home to I how rare it be to see people with visible physical disability or in wheelchair on television at all , and certainly in a dance group . it be an amazing dance . if hon . member get the chance to look it up , it be impressive to watch and incredibly powerful . the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) table new clause 19 , or what be call new clause 5 in Committee , where I be absolutely clear that I be withdraw my amendment on Gaelic in favour of hers . I also make it clear that I have to leave a few minute before the end of the sitting , and so miss the vote on her new clause in Committee . I be totally supportive of it , and the SNP continue to be . unfortunately , I have a clash that I could not get out of and we have only one Committee member , so I could not have someone else vote for the new clause , but we continue to support it . in Committee , the hon . member for Barnsley East and for Arfon and I speak in favour of the protection of the gaelic language and the importance of it be use as speak in Scotland on television . I mention the importance for place in Scotland where Gaelic be a very minority language . there be , for example , gaelic - medium education in Aberdeen , but people in Aberdeen be much less likely to be expose to Gaelic outside the education system , so thing like gaelic child ' s tv be even more important in Aberdeen than they be in place where Gaelic be more widely speak . they mean that child and young people can be expose to and immerse in the language , rather than only have it for the few hour a day that they be at a Gaelic playgroup or school . we continue to support what be now new clause 19 . I have have much communication from BBC Alba on this and I continue to support its work . I encourage the Government to do what they can to work with the Scottish Government , the BBC and BBC Alba to ensure that the situation continue as be , and that there be clarity about the future of funding , so that everyone agree on the importance of Gaelic . to be fair to the Minister in Committee , he be also clear about his support for the gaelic language . agreement be very much across party , but Gaelic still do not have the prominence in the Bill that we would like it to , despite the feeling in the House be in favour of it . anything that the Government can do to improve the prominence of Gaelic in the Bill would be great . I emphasise the point that the hon . Lady make early in respect of the gaelic language . in term of language planning , extend the domain of a minority language be extremely important . that domain encompass the medium , include television and radio . she be perfectly right to argue for gaelic television to be pick up in Aberdeen as well as in the Western Isles . I thank the hon . gentleman for back up my point . I think we be very much on the same page . I be pleased at how much Welsh language tv have change and move in recent year . I congratulate he on his personal work to ensure that that happen . he be very clear about the history in Committee , and it be incredibly interesting to learn about that . I support the amendment about age rating . I agree that there should be consistency to they and that Disney tend to duck its obligation , which make it more difficult for parent to make sensible decision . the shadow Minister talk about child ' s television and the way that child access some television . child in more deprived household be less likely to have access to smartphone or online system , and therefore the only way they can access good child ' s content may be through the public service broadcaster and their free - to - air service . I want to reinforce the shadow Minister ' s point that it be incredibly important to protect those service because of the discriminatory and differential impact their loss would have on the most vulnerable child and those who be least able to access educational programming and have access only to free - to - air service as they air . it be important to protect child ' s television and ensure the provision of good - quality child ' s television . I continue to talk and think about the importance of CBBC and CBeebies when my child be young . other service be available but 10 or 12 year ago , those channel be at the centre of what child and family be watch . I hope that they continue to produce high - quality , useful and interesting programme . sometimes we just need to sit our child down in front of the tv and have a few minute . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] it be thoroughly recommend at time . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington table new clause 21 , about genre . we agree that there be issue with their removal from legislation . I hope that the Government will agree at least to keep a watching brief on that and that they be willing to ensure that Ofcom can change the genre cover or encourage extra genre to be add in a slightly easy way than be currently possible . the process for make change be onerous and if problem be identify , it will be difficult for the Government to walk back from the position that they be include in the Bill . give Ofcom more flexibility to increase the number of genre would be helpful . let I deal with the issue about section 40 and the lack of independent regulator . I meet member of hack off yesterday . I have be speak to the organisation throughout the Bill ' s stage , and I table an amendment on the subject in Committee . I have concern about the Government ' s position on section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 . I understand that , as the temporary Minister — if that be the correct term — the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) say , the provision be a manifesto pledge . I still do not think that it be the right thing to do . we still have significant issue with the Independent Press Standards Organisation . the right hon . Member can not say that impress be a state regulator and that it be not independent while at the same time stress that IPSO be an independent regulator . either they be both independent or neither of they be . a press - back regulator and a state - back regulator would be close to my definition . I believe that IPSO be not independent , as do many people , if we look at the result and the number of people who go through IPSO process and do not get the recourse that they hope for or that natural justice would give they . I speak to an individual yesterday whose daughter have die . the second before the young woman pass away be film and post on a national newspaper ' s website . IPSO find that that be not intrusion into grief . it be against natural justice that that could happen . the individual from Hacked Off and those who give evidence to the Leveson inquiry be tell clearly by those in charge at the time , " we will make change . we will ensure that there be recourse . " they be promise by those in the most senior position that change would happen , yet 12 year on , those people be still wait for any meaningful change to occur . give everything that they have be through , they should not have to continue to fight simply to get the press to behave with a little compassion and common sense . I have massive concern about the Government ' s position , and I will support the amendment that the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) table . I have a slight preference for new clause 3 over amendment 2 because the new clause be very similar to the one that I table in Committee . however , I be happy to take the morally correct position and support amendment 2 . my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) will cover the sport issue . I have be peruse new clause 18 , which the hon . Member table . it would establish a fund to compensate sport governing body for loss of income for sale of tv right . would that be a levy on the sport governing body , which the Government would redistribute , or would the money come from general taxation ? it be not clear how it would be pay for . I do not mean to be difficult , but the amendment be in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North , and I be say that he will cover the information about they . I be sure that he would be willing to take an intervention on that point and provide the answer . I have magnanimously allow he to lead because I know very little about sport . he know far more about it than I , so it make sense for we to divide up the amendment . I want briefly to cover terrestrial television and specifically new clause 8 , which the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) table , and amendment 80 , which my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North and I table . the Scottish Affairs Committee do an excellent piece of work on that , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) and the rest of the Committee on all their work . the Committee find that about a third of user in Scotland access television only through Freeview or digital terrestrial tv . our amendment ask about the percentage of people who access television through mean other than terrestrial tv . my big concern , which I make clear on Second Reading and in Committee , be about the potential for terrestrial television service to stop accidentally . if the Government refuse to make a commitment about those service ' future , we could end up with the network degrade accidentally , with nobody willing to make investment in they because the Government have not be clear about their future . I would like the Government to make clear statement about what those service will look like in future . we want to ensure that our constituent can continue to access they and that there be no impact on the most vulnerable and those who live in the most rural area . the Bill try to strike a balance between the right and the responsibility of public service broadcaster . everything that the Government do in regulate they be about strike that balance . they outline the recognise public service broadcaster ' right and their responsibility to show certain genre and provide high - quality television . as a result of fulfil those responsibility , those broadcaster have the right to prominence on on - demand service . it be reasonable to consider public service broadcaster as different from other broadcaster because they have those responsibility , which other do not share . the change to radio be also important . it be good to hear cross - party commitment to and positivity about radio in Committee . in the recent extreme weather event , people have rely on the radio . they need to know , for example , that a tree have fall down on North Anderson Drive and that they can not access the Haudagain slip road . my friend , who live in Oxfordshire , have no electricity because of a recent storm , and could get update only by listen to their car radio . radio be incredibly important for resilience and I be pleased that member across the House recognise that in Committee . as I have make clear , the SNP will not oppose the Bill on Third Reading . change , which be long overdue , need to be make . however , there be some gap in the Bill , include issue around future proofing , that have not be adequately address . as the shadow Minister do , I thank everyone on the Bill Committee , particularly the hon . member for Arfon . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate about this important legislation , and to hear cross - party support for the Bill and the work do in Committee , on Second Reading , in which I take part , and now on Report . I warmly welcome the Bill and the work do by the Minister for Media , Tourism and Creative Industries and her team , as well as by the interim Minister , the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , in the early stage . I will focus on new clause 8 , which I table . the new clause look at what be not in the Bill and what have be omit , which I hope the Minister will consider during she sum up and in the Bill ' s remain stage . protection for digital terrestrial television and radio broadcast service that people receive via an aerial need to be write into the Bill . new clause 8 would put in law for the first time a legal protection for these crucial life - line service . it would put a duty on the Government to keep issue multiplex licence and on Ofcom to make available sufficient radio spectrum . currently , these service be guarantee only until 2034 , with the risk that they could be switch in 2030 — in just six year . minister hint at Second Reading that these service will have a long shelf life than 2034 , which be welcome . however , I will focus my remark on the Scottish Affairs Committee , of which I be a member , and our report , which I will come to , because at the Committee , the Minister say : " what happen after 2034 be a live question . " I agree that it a " live question " , which be why we need a live answer to the issue . I welcome the Minister ' s positive comment in Committee and those of the Secretary of State on Second Reading — indeed , I quote a speech by the Secretary of State . there be a lot of positivity about what I be hear from the Government and I hope they will go a step far by take on the conclusion I have come to in new clause 8 . no one be push against the tide on the growth in streaming , but terrestrial television , often refer to as Freeview , and broadcast radio still account for the bulk of view and listen across the United Kingdom . I come to the issue from a scottish angle , as I represent a scottish constituency and be a member of the Scottish Affairs Committee , where we discuss this at length , but the issue affect people across the United Kingdom . research from Ipsos in 2022 show that most adult have watch digital terrestrial television in the last year and 43 % of adult watch digital terrestrial television every week . some 76 % listen to broadcast radio weekly . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) be right to highlight the very good Scottish Affairs Committee report on the subject and she mention the issue . as the report say on page 13 : " almost a third ( 31 % ) of household in Scotland only use Digital Terrestrial Television service … to watch television in the first quarter of 2022 . " paragraph 33 highlight correspondence to the Committee from Laurie Patten , director of strategy and regulation at Arqiva , who argue that " Scotland ' s great rurality than the UK average , its island community , and its comparatively old population " make terrestrial tv service especially important in Scotland . that be why we make that issue so prominent in the report . I have continue to raise the matter with Ministers , and propose new clause 8 . the hon . member for Aberdeen North be right to say the issue be important not only to people in rural community and old population , and that it have an impact on some of the most vulnerable in society . the campaign group Broadcast 2040 + have assemble a coalition of group represent those who rely on broadcast service the most . they include old people , who rely disproportionately on terrestrial television . some 80 % of those age 75 and above only watch their medium , news and programme through that mean , and they often struggle to access IP content . Age UK be a member of the coalition . their charity director , Caroline Abrahams , say : " while broadcast tv and radio be enjoy by many across the UK , it be especially important for old audience particularly those on low income live alone . many old people value the current universal service and would struggle to afford alternative such as subscription service . " because they be free to air , they be also a lifeline to people on low income or live in digital poverty , who often struggle to afford the additional cost of subscription streaming service and the cost of superfast broadband connection that be require to access they . Elizabeth Anderson , chief executive office of the Digital Poverty Alliance say : " for the million live in digital poverty in the UK , tv and radio broadcast service be vital source of news , public education and entertainment . the universality of access to broadcast service must be paramount . whilst many service have see a rush to digital only delivery , apply this to tv and radio when so many lack the device , skill and connectivity package to access internet base medium would simply push million of people deep into financial and social exclusion . " the hon . Gentleman ' s word strike a chord with I because he highlight exactly the issue in my vast , far - fling constituency . in the strath and glen of Sutherland , Caithness , Ross and Cromarty , there be many folk who can not afford such service , precisely as he be say . I be glad he be say what he be say , and I be listen with very great interest . it be important that this issue be air . the hon . Gentleman represent an extremely rural part of northern Scotland . my constituency be not quite so rural , but many people in Moray experience similar challenge to those of his constituent in the far north . my hon . friend be make some excellent point and I be hesitant to interrupt he . although I would not sell his constituency short , my constituency be also very rural . our constituency , in common with many of the rural constituency in Scotland , be very low down the league table of superfast broadband coverage . as much as people might be able to afford or want streaming service , they do not physically have access to they — at least , not yet . do he agree that make his new clause even more important ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that point and for support my new clause 8 . I will come on to not just the affordability but the availability of superfast broadband to get streaming service . I highlight the importance of broadcast service for rural constituent , include mine in Moray , as well as those of my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) and the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) . Graham Biggs , chief executive of the Rural Services Network , have amplify that point , say that the " issue of safeguard DTT and radio be of fundamental importance to rural area where the population be much old than the national average and the least well serve by broadband connectivity . we strongly support the Broadcast 2040 + campaign . " I have be extremely encourage by the work of that campaign to get some movement from the Government on the issue . as my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan highlight , the issue of broadband connectivity be of huge concern to constituent in his area , as well as in my Moray constituency . large part of Scotland and rural area around the UK do not have reliable , high - speed broadband , so stream tv be not an option . I have little confidence that the problem will be solve by 2040 , particularly give some of the problem we have see with the roll - out of the r100 programme in Scotland . even if that roll - out succeed , all the target be meet and high - speed broadband be deliver across the country , the other measure that we must look at be broadband take - up . EY have recently undertake a study on that , predict that regardless of whether high - speed broadband be roll out , more than 5 . 5 million property in the UK will still not have a high - speed broadband subscription in 2040 — well beyond 2034 as specify by my new clause . the report make a number of other worrying finding and paint a compelling picture of the genuine dependence that million of the most vulnerable member of our society have on broadcast service to stay connected and in touch . any move towards an online - only system of tv distribution , without the option of digital terrestrial television , would put a significant group of people at risk of be leave behind . as for why I have table new clause 8 and why be I look for certainty from the Government , both they and Ofcom be conduct review of the tv market . minister have urge we to await those finding , but 2034 be not far away and if these service be to remain , it be crucial that we attract investment and ensure that they remain commercially viable . to do that , as the hon . member for Aberdeen North correctly say , they need certainty from the Government . the danger be that without that long - term certainty , beyond 2034 , where the Minister have accept there be a live question , broadcaster might run down their service and the technology might not be update . if they get certainty from the Government , they can put in investment to ensure people be not without these crucial service and be not leave isolate . if the commercial viability of the service be lose while million of people be still rely on it , there be a real risk that , perversely , the Government would have to step in and use taxpayer ' money to keep the service go . my constructive proposal would not only help keep people connect but , in the long run , perhaps save taxpayer ' money . surely it be well to provide the long - term guarantee now that would enable that investment and deliver a good - quality , universal service for year to come . I thank the Minister , the interim Minister and the Secretary of State and other who have listen to my concern on this issue . I meet the Minister just last week and I will continue the dialogue on this , because it be a crucial element that we should be debate in this House . I hope we will get some movement from the Government . as my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) say , Media Bills do not come along often , so this be an opportunity for this Minister , this Government and her Department to put my new clause 8 into the Bill and give that guarantee go forward . that would allow the investment to be make and secure the commercial future for DTT , ensure that people in Moray , across Scotland and around the UK can continue to rely on those service for many year to come . first , may I apologise for my late arrival to the debate , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I seriously underestimate hon . member ' capacity for brevity on the previous business . this afternoon , I would like to speak to my new clause 15 and to refer briefly to new clause 1 and clause 28 . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) for her work with I in Committee — Order . it will not be possible for the hon . gentleman to refer to new clause 1 , because he be not here to move it at the beginning . he be fine to speak to new clause 15 . thank you for that guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . new clause 15 seek to establish a broadcasting and communication authority for Wales . that new independent body would have responsibility for and oversight of broadcasting and media matter in Wales , seek to reflect the need of Welsh audience . under my new clause , a shadow authority would fulfil the function of that body before its establishment 12 month after the passing of this Act . the report by the Independent Commission on the constitutional Future of Wales recommend that move . some Members will know that the commission be set up by the Welsh Government and be under the chairmanship of the former Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams . it report last week , and one of its conclusion be that there be a need to look at the devolution of broadcasting . an independent authority to regulate would be an integral part of that provision . recent event have show that there be a real need for such an authority in Wales . some member will know about the internal issue at S4C , the Welsh language channel , which make the argument that the current broadcasting framework be unsustainable . I worry about the relatively low interest from the Department for Culture , Media and Sport in this matter . the Bill give the Secretary of State further decision - make power , but if successive minister refuse to meet the chair of S4C , as have happen , I worry that they can not be trust to make the right decision in respect of that broadcaster . my hon . friend be make a compelling case , and the event of the past week involve the commission vindicate the position he have take . the recent difficulty in S4C have be very damaging for the channel . my firm view be that if the matter have be in the hand of Welsh Government Ministers and the Senedd , which can provide scrutiny and accountability , we would not have get to the damaging state we be in . I thank my hon . friend for that point , with which I entirely agree . even Welsh Conservative Members concede that the argument for reserve power over broadcasting have be undermine by what have happen , and by the Department ' s action — or inaction . we be concerned about S4C , and its funding have plummet since 2010 . the decision to fund it through the licence fee lead to a 40 % reduction in staff . in 2015 , its chief executive officer , Ian Jones , warn about the effect of huge funding cut and call for " tegwch " or fair play . that be a valuable contribution from he . S4C ' s independence be clearly at stake . we need to remember that there be a substantial and hard - fought campaign during the 1970s to establish the channel . indeed , we have a discussion about that in Committee , in which the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) make some interesting point . I have the opportunity in the interim to consult the Cabinet paper , which I obtain from the National Archives . they show how the threat by the then Plaid Cymru leader Gwynfor Evans to go on a hunger strike be integral to the then Prime Minister ' s decision to change course and allow the people of Wales our own channel . the Cabinet paper be very interesting to read , and I hope you will indulge my quote briefly from they , Madam Deputy Speaker . be I correct in remember that the Conservatives have promise a separate channel in their manifesto , and have break that promise until Gwynfor Evans threaten his hunger strike ? I thank the hon . gentleman for make that point ; that be what I be come on to . however , a further argument arise from that unhappy episode , as I will show by quote from the Cabinet paper . they state that the then Home Secretary , the late Willie Whitelaw , say that the Government " would withdraw its plan to share Welsh language programme between two television channel . instead the programme would , for an experimental period of three year , be broadcast on one channel as have be propose in the Party Manifesto . " that be the point that the hon . Gentleman be make . what be more interesting be that the paper say that Willie Whitelaw " still think that the previous plan be preferable but he have agree to change they in response to representation , put to he by Lord Cledwyn and other , of the view of informed and responsible people in Wales . " the interesting point be the reference to " the view of informed and responsible people in Wales . " in fact , in the same Cabinet meeting , the Secretary of State for Wales say : " Gwynfor Evans , the leader of Plaid Cymru , be threaten to go on what he call a ' hunger strike ' " , before go on to say that there could be " much tension and unpleasantness in Wales later in the year , if he persist in this intention , and there would be a danger that Plaid Cymru would fall into the hand of extreme left wing leader " , mention no name . however , later on in the Cabinet paper , the Secretary of State for Wales say that it have be make clear in the press that the change be make in response to " moderate opinion follow very wide consultation in Wales . " that be the point I want to make . the argument I be make for a Welsh broadcasting authority reflect settle and responsible opinion in Wales . as I say , the constitutional convention have meet and take evidence very widely over two year , and have come to the conclusion that broadcasting should be devolve to Wales . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way and for give we a history lesson on the hard work of Gwynfor Evans . anybody who be interested in this period in the history of Wales should watch the great drama that S4C recently commission on the life of Gwynfor Evans , and this campaign in particular . I be at Crymych rugby club at the weekend with Rhodri John , the actor who portray Gwynfor in the drama . I can indeed recommend that production for anybody to have a look at ; it be very interesting . I can also recommend the biography of Gwynfor Evans , which make similar point . the medium industry in Wales be more than S4C . we have fantastic production company , include Cwmni Da in my constituency , news outlet and radio — all kind of thing . the propose authority would unite the medium landscape in Wales under one regulatory roof and safeguard it from harm , include from large conglomerate . it would also focus on area that be important to the people of Wales . the Labour Welsh Government ' s expert panel on a shadow broadcasting and communication authority for Wales propose that public interest journalism , sport and child ' s medium be area of specific focus due to their cultural significance , position in relation to Welsh language ambition and impact on long - term sustainability , among other reason . the Welsh Government therefore propose a shadow broadcasting and communication authority for Wales . I look to those on the Labour Front Bench , as potentially the next Government , to give we reassurance that it be their intention to establish that authority , as well as the intention of the Welsh Labour Government in Cardiff . Wales need to have a say on its own medium landscape to ensure that what work for we be what we get . prominent commentator such as Professor Tom O ' Malley and Mike Birtwistle have say that S4C should be build on share principle of social partnership , public interest and democratic pluralism ; that is , as they say , the Welsh political tradition . an independent regulator for Wales would be well equip to regulate , defend and promote our national broadcasting and medium industry in Wales and ensure that those value be represent . that be my argument in favour of a broadcasting authority . I will say a few word on the prominence of S4C on the selection service — a point that I also raise in Committee . S4C ' s content must be readily discoverable and prominent on television service , but I seek assurance that the " appropriate degree of prominence " will not lead to the limiting of S4C ' s coverage to specific audience , thereby deprive people of a wide range of broadcast . this language match that of the electronic programme guide code , which allow S4C to be on channel 166 on Virgin Media in Wales until 2021 . the Government should provide clear principle to guide Ofcom in draw up the new prominence code , so that public service broadcaster ' designate internet programming service appear prominently and be easily discoverable on screen . I rise to support new clause 6 and amendment 17 , both in my name . the Bill be a substantial piece of legislation and I fully support what the Government be seek to do through it to bridge the gap in regulation between linear television and internet - base on - demand platform . nobody would argue against the principle that we want to protect child from watch age - inappropriate or harmful content . that is , after all , why Parliament over many year have bring in legislation that mandate age rating on cinema release , restriction on child buy dvd and video and , importantly , until the relatively recent past , a watershed for broadcast tv . the watershed , of course , ensure that programme broadcast before 9 pm be generally suitable for child . however , now that the vast majority of content watch by child and adult be access through on - demand streaming service , the watershed have become increasingly redundant . it do not matter if a programme be originally broadcast live after the watershed ; once it be available to stream online , it can be view by anyone of any age at any time . that be why we urgently need to apply the same standard of child protection to on - demand video as we do to cinema release , physical dvd and linear tv . while a time - base watershed clearly can not be adapt for video on demand service , we be very fortunate in this country to have world - class expertise in apply age rating to video content . the British Board of Film Classification have be empower by Parliament , through the Secretary of State , to apply age rating across all cinema and dvd release in the UK . the BBFC do an excellent job of this , as colleague have mention , and be a global leader in its field . it have produce a system of age rating that the vast majority of the british population recognise , trust and understand . importantly , its rating be base on regular consultation with thousand of people across Britain to ensure that they meet audience expectation . we have the relevant age rating expertise already in this country , but as it stand , the Bill will not make use of that expertise . amendment 17 would address this matter very simply by explicitly require Ofcom to consult the BBFC when draw up the video on demand code . the code will set the rule for streaming platform , include in relation to age rating . why would we not want to ensure that our world - renowned , Government - appoint expert be consult as part of that ? there be a similar amendment to the Online Safety Act 2023 that require Ofcom to consult with the Children ' s Commissioner , and I can see no argument against apply the same principle here . get age rating right be incredibly important , as they will likely become one of the main audience protection measure that platform employ and will , of course , future - proof the Bill . if parent do not trust the rating , they will ignore they , and we will then not achieve our aim of protect child . that bring I to new clause 6 in my name , which be similar to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) , and I will reiterate some of his point . I be very supportive of the theme of my hon . friend ' s amendment . she make an extremely important point about consistency for parent . those of we who be lucky enough to have child find ourselves in a forest of different medium that they consume , some of which seem to decide the rule and rating on their own — of course , there be website to go to for third - party reference . do she agree that it would be sensible to have a standardised view for parent , to manage consumption by their child , as it be the parent ' primary duty to manage that ? we have see in the past that the wide medium industry will constantly push the boundary to try to get more under the wire for consumption by young and young people , such as in the deterioration of the watershed on terrestrial television . if an organisation such as the BBFC set the tone and the standard , that must apply online as much as offline . I agree with every word . the very important factor behind the BBFC be that parent trust it . it even have an app to search for any film or dvd , and it will tell parent not only the rating but exactly why it be there — swearing , violence or whatever . that detailed knowledge be crucial not only to gain parent ' trust but to create an industry standard , as my right hon . Friend say . if we have no industry standard , some company will try to get around the requirement if there be a commercial advantage . the Bill should set out exactly that . the Bill list age rating as one of the option that tier 1 platform , such as the provider we have talk about , can use to comply with their audience protection requirement , but it shy away from set the minimum standard that my right hon . Friend just mention for what those rating should be . the Bill be right to recognise that there can not be a one - size - fit - all approach . research have show that audience have different expectation of video on demand service than they do of those operate by public service broadcaster . but where age rating be in use , be it not common sense to expect a consistent standard ? my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon talk about Disney + and the fact that the film " Avatar " have a 16 - plus rating , even though most parent would think it suitable for much young child , whereas a series that have scene of sexual coercion be apparently suitable for nine - plus . the outcome be that parent just turn off the security setting , because they do not trust the rating . how be parent suppose to understand and apply they if they be not consistent across different platform and provider ? new clause 6 would set a minimum standard for tier 1 provider that choose to use age rating , by allow they to use either the BBFC ' s system or one of equivalent transparency , clarity , rigour and objectivity that have be approve by Ofcom . the new clause do not seek to mandate the BBFC system , although research have find that 90 % of UK parent want on - demand age rating to be consistent with those for cinema and dvd . rather , it would set a minimum standard across platform that parent can trust . we have proof already that that work . Netflix and Prime Video have both voluntarily set up innovative partnership to include BBFC rating in their content . that kind of collaboration be in the interest of everyone — parent , child and the platform themselves . it show that this can be do without high cost or a reduction in consistency . but the reluctance of Disney + and other to follow suit show why this kind of regulation be need . the BBFC ' s system fit the Government ' s own definition of good practice for age rating . it would surely be preferable for all platform to follow the example of Netflix and Amazon , but we do not need to be overly prescriptive in impose solution . instead , I ask the Government to accept that it be the role of Parliament — not Ofcom — to set minimum standard to ensure the protection of child from harm . new clause 6 would achieve that by require tier 1 platform to apply either the age rate classification system use by the BBFC or a system base on a transparent set of appropriate standard apply consistently . if this House really want to protect child and wish to see a trust , effective regulatory landscape , it be hard to envisage what objection there might be to this provision . my amendment be focus on that specific aspect of the Bill , but they speak to my wide concern about the approach to digital medium regulation in recent year . in both this Bill and the Online Safety Act 2023 , on which I work with colleague across the House and in the other place to secure strengthen amendment , we have give far too much power to Ofcom — not enforcement power , which be need , but the responsibility to determine regulatory policy . in this Bill , as in the Online Safety Act , Parliament be set out only the very basic principle through legislation , leave it up to Ofcom to draft and consult upon the vast majority of the detail . I have nothing against Ofcom as an organisation — we must have an official regulator to ensure that broadcaster and provider adhere to standard require by law . however , when it come to set policy , I subscribe to the perhaps old - fashioned notion that it be our job as elect member of Parliament . we can not leave something so important up to the consultation of an unelected body , especially when the vested interest at play be so substantial . as other hon . member have mention , once we pass the Bill , Parliament will not get another chance to set the parameter of the video on demand code , so we must ensure that the final text of the Bill set out what Parliament believe to be the appropriate standard of audience protection . sadly , my concern in this area be well found . in the recently enact Online Safety Act 2023 , Parliament decide that age verification check for site and platform host pornography must be " highly effective " to address the significant problem of young child access violent pornography on social medium and website . " highly effective " be an outcome measure . just try hard to prevent child from access pornography do not make a platform compliant under that Act . compliance mean actually stop under - 18 from come across porn . in other word , this Bill require effective outcome measure and must not give prize to the tech company just for take part . yet in the draft consultation that it publish last month , Ofcom do not set out what the " highly effective " standard mean , so platform and user be none the wiser when it come to what do and do not meet the require legislative standard . instead , the consultation outline the kind of activity that Ofcom would like to see , rather than the outcome that it demand . give that Parliament have task Ofcom with adjudicate on what meet the " highly effective " standard , fail to set a clear definition be completely unacceptable . if Ofcom fail to meet the highly effective outcome standard that be clearly lay out in the 2023 Act , it will leave itself open to judicial review from those who take the view that the will of Parliament be serious and who wish to see age verification apply in a way that make child safe . that very concerning but current example demonstrate what may sadly happen to the measure in the Bill if Parliament leave it to Ofcom to decide what constitute effective age rating for video on demand service . we can not say that we be not warn . I do not intend to press my amendment to a vote , because I very much appreciate the Secretary of State ' s continued engagement , but I urge the Minister and their lordship to consider the principle of the amendment . they be design to set minimum standard for child protection , which be currently lack . that be our responsibility as legislator , so let we do it thoroughly . I rise to commend my new clause 16 to the House , and to speak to new clause 17 and 18 , and amendment 79 and 80 . this summer will again see Scotland again in the final of the man ' s european championship in Germany . thank to list , every game from the final will be available free to air on the BBC and STV / ITV . however , once this summer ' s Euro 2024 final conclude and Scotland have safely tuck away the Henri Delaunay trophy in the Hampden trophy cabinet , we will be back to the current set - up , which will maintain a paywall for the Scotland man ' s national team game . last April , I host a roundtable summit on how to make progress on get all of Scotland ' s national team match on free - to - air tv . two thing be clear : as it stand , that would not be an easy or quick fix , with umpteen move part and vested interest in the room ; however , there be also a willingness to look realistically at what could be do with the right will and resource . we see how grassroots participation rate in English cricket slump when the England and Wales Cricket Board sign a deal with Sky and put almost the entirety of the first - class game behind a paywall . the lack of public interest be such that the ECB effectively have to invent an entire competition , purely for terrestrial television , as a shop window for the sport . I assume that we be all aware of the Billie Jean King quote : " you have to see it to be it . " no one at the Scottish Football Association , STV , Viaplay , the BBC , UEFA or anywhere else involve in football right be sit there plot to do in scottish football fan . they be all rational actor , work within the system create by the UK Government and UEFA to achieve their own goal . the hon . Gentleman be talk about the unanimity of opinion . I should tell the House that the Welsh Affairs Committee , the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , and the Senedd ' s Culture , Communications , Welsh Language , Sport and International Relations Committee have all call for the Six Nations rugby tournament to remain free to air for broadcasting . indeed , the Welsh Conservatives have a whole Senedd debate on that matter tomorrow . last week , I meet a senior executive from BBC Cymru Wales , who say that lose the Six Nations , for example , which be currently share with ITV , will be a blow both to the BBC and to the audience . I will come to the potential issue face the Six Nations a bit later in my speech , but in the meantime , I be very much look forward to visit Cardiff this Saturday to watch Scotland beat Wales in that very competition . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? on that ? it be just that the hon . Gentleman ' s extensive list of event neglect to mention cricket . I wonder whether there be a reason why he have exclude cricket from his list . all I have seek to add to the list be the six Nations competition and any and all qualification match for all home nation ' national football team . as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , I be indeed a fan of cricket , which be probably not a majority position in Scotland . it be obviously not one of the main sport in Scotland at this time , although the SNP will be back amendment 88 , table by the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) , despite the fact that its propose new clause 25 ( 4 ) ( a ) would cover only the english cricket team , give that Scotland do not yet have test status — it be only a matter of time , I be sure . will the hon . member give way ? I be go to go back to football , but I feel that we be stay on cricket , so I will . I thank the hon . member for his generous remark . whether it be cricket , football or whatever , get people to watch sport in the way that be be advocate so strongly mean that they might become more inclined to take part in that sport themselves , which could ultimately improve the health of Scotland and the health of the nation . the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point : the power of sport be simply huge . participate be obviously the good thing for the health of the nation , but view a sport — whatever sport it be — be likely to drive up participation rate . we have see the opposite with the England and Wales Cricket Board and the Sky contract . if I can cycle back to football for a second , the problem for scottish football fan be that sometimes the goal of those involved — again , I be talk about UEFA , the BBC , Viaplay and all the stakeholder — do not coincide with maximise access . what be need be a change to the system that would change those goal for the well for our fan . the system be currently short - change fan in Scotland , while elsewhere on these isle , it be a very different story . football fan in England enjoy free - to - air coverage of their national team via the current deal with Channel 4 and the forthcoming deal with ITV . viewer in Wales enjoy free - to - air coverage of their national team thank to S4C ' s sub - license Welsh language coverage , and viewer in Northern Ireland get free coverage of the Republic of Ireland via RT É broadcast — while many in Northern Ireland welcome that , I appreciate that , for other , it be akin to have England game broadcast in Scotland on Channel 4 and STV . scottish fan , though , be leave with the prospect of pay subscription provider to see their team in action . that be very unlikely to change without amend legislation to level the play field for scottish supporter . similarly , these day , we be use to murmuring about the six Nations be move from its current home on the BBC and STV / ITV to behind a paywall . the airtime available to rugby union fan on free - to - air tv be already incredibly low : last year ' s world cup be a four - yearly aberration . as we all know , the Six Nations be a rating winner and rugby ' s big annual shop window to the wide public and the player of the future . even old relic like I can be convince to play again — although , have try to do so last year , it would have be very much for the well if I have not . middle youth ? stupidity , not a mid - life crisis — yet . italian supporter be guarantee to see their team on free - to - air tv ; Ireland supporter will see their team on free tv , as will France supporter ; but Scotland , Wales and England supporter face watch a blank screen if the right be allow to lapse into subscription tv ' s hand . the Welsh Affairs Committee , which have already be mention and on which my hon . friend the Member for Ceredigion ( Ben Lake ) sit , have it right when it recommend in its report on broadcasting in Wales that " the Government add the Six Nations to Group A of the Listed Sporting Events , to ensure its status on terrestrial tv . " obviously , that be propose in new clause 16 . these island will host the man ' s Euro 2028 championship , and there be a reasonable chance that all five country might qualify . viewer in England , Ireland and Wales will be able to see their team live and in full throughout the qualifying campaign without pay a penny — beyond the licence fee , in case anybody want to challenge I on that . my amendment would guarantee that right to all across these isle through a simple amendment of the exist legislation , extend the protection that exist to protect " event of national interest " , in the word of the 1996 Act . Scotland ' s journey in the past few year under Stevie Clark have show how much interest there be across Scotland , and it be time that the legislation reflect that . I be grateful to Labour , Plaid Cymru and the Liberal Democrats for their support for the new clause . I hope that Tory Back Benchers who have be espouse the power of sport and argue that sport should be show on free - to - air tv will join we in the Lobby this evening . new clause 18 , the related amendment , be design to prevent any detriment below a certain annual revenue level to govern body and organisation that have their event list and broadcast outside subscription paywall . I know from my extensive discussion with govern body that they be in something of a bind . on the one hand , they support their sport and want to see it in front of as many eyeball as possible — and perhaps , on a cynical level , to have as many eyeball as possible in front of perimeter advertising as well . on the other hand , they receive a decent whack of cash for the tv right — fund that go into develop the sport and support the grassroot — and that might well take a severe knock if the value of the right be cut through list in group A . I fully understand that sport broadcasting right inflation have be significant over the last decade and more . I understand that it be difficult for an STV to make a win bid for Scotland right commercially viable , due to the size of the tv market in Scotland . that be make hard still by the fact that UEFA have bundle scottish international football right with those of Wales and Northern Ireland to try and draw large bid and more money for itself and the national association . although the same right inflation have impact the BBC , it do not have the same commercial consideration as an STV or an ITV . I appreciate , however , that Tory culture war have inflict severe damage to the funding level available to the BBC in recent year . however , the BBC be require to serve all audience across the whole of the UK , include provision for those in the nation and region . from a sporting point of view , that simply do not happen . we do not know how much the BBC pay to secure , yet again , the right to " Match of the Day " , but we do know that it be a huge sum that take up a huge proportion of BBC Sport ' s budget . despite the figure not be available , it do not take a genius to ascertain that per - capita spending to secure english sport right vastly dwarf that which be spend on scottish sport right . incidentally , I do not blame BBC Scotland for that ; the blame lie firmly at BBC network ' s door . it would seem that the approach by the network be to let scottish football fan eat english cake . if BBC Scotland be afford the per - capita sum use to secure England football right , Scotland would be in a far well position to bid for , and secure , Scotland international right . or , indeed , if BBC Alba ' s funding be anywhere near the level of per - capita support offer to S4C , that would very likely allow BBC Alba to secure secondary sub - license free - to - air gaelic coverage . in lieu of any action to address this , new clause 18 would attempt to solve the funding gap by provide financial support to govern body , who could rely on that revenue stream to offset any loss of income cause by group a listing . that be a proportionate , cost - effective way of ensure that there be no detriment from list , while limit access to the fund to those who actually need it , rather than those organisation that be already awash with cash . of course , govern body in the devolved nation , be much small , be hugely hit by be part of a large UK broadcast market but a very small domestic market . to address the question that the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) ask in an intervention , I would suggest that if the Government be content to flush away nearly £ 10 billion on unused personal protective equipment , they be flush enough to cough up the relatively small sum need to protect both grassroots sport and the principle of national team on free - to - air tv . in Committee , the interim Minister or temporary Minister , or whatever title the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) be go with in this debate , make reference to the Scottish Government bring forward such a scheme if they wish . while the Tories be take such a relaxed approach to the concept of reserved and devolve power , perhaps he and his colleague might extend that relaxation to the other power that the Scottish Parliament have , such as the right to hold a fresh referendum on independence at a time of its choosing . whatever the then Minister may have say , the simple fact be that broadcasting be an entirely devolve matter . in schedule 5 to the Scotland Act 1998 , section k1 state clearly that " the subject - matter of the Broadcasting Act 1990 and the Broadcasting Act 1996 " be reserve to Westminster . if it be up to I , schedule 5 and its list of power reserve to this place would be delete in its entirety , but there we be . if the 1996 Act be entirely reserve to Westminster , so must be the financial implication of measure enact under that amend Act . it be not up to the Scottish Government to fix the consequence of the UK Government ' s broken devolution system , and it be entirely in order that the UK Government compensate govern body and other whose income fall below a threshold if it drop as a result of list . take together , new clause 16 and 18 would not only give group a list a firm moral footing , but give right holder a firm financial footing . surely that be a win for everyone , include this Government . I will touch briefly on my other amendment . new clause 17 would place the Gaelic Media Service , which in partnership with the BBC provide the BBC Alba channel , on the same statutory footing as its Welsh counterpart in the S4C Authority , which oversee the Welsh language channel . when the 1996 Act be pass , gaelic broadcasting be restrict to opt - out on the two BBC channel and through STV and Grampian ' s schedule . MG Alba , which the Gaelic Media Service now operate as , do not exist . television be entirely analogue , and Gaelic and Welsh language broadcasting be restrict to Scotland and Wales only . my new clause would simply ensure that gaelic language broadcasting have parity with Welsh language broadcasting when it come to the consideration of list event . it would be an utter nonsense to say that speaker of Gaelic have less of an interest in see sport on free - to - air tv than their Welsh - speak counterpart , yet that be what the current legislation imply . BBC Alba have develop a reputation for high - quality sport coverage since its inception . it therefore have a strategic interest in where sporting right go , simply because it have invest a great deal of time and money into secure some of those right and broadcast the sport free to air not just in Scotland , but across these isle . on the Broadcast 2040 + campaign , I welcome the pledge make by the interim Minister in Committee , and I be sure that the current Minister will back that up . in response to that campaign for digital terrestrial broadcasting to continue for many year to come , my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) make some good comment . even the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) make some comment that I agree with , which be highly unusual . however , pledge make by minister have a tendency to become pliable when circumstance make it easy to slide away from the original commitment . amendment 79 and 80 would simply place into legislation a compulsory requirement for public service broadcaster to continue use digital terrestrial television to deliver their service . I can see no reason why that would be incompatible with those ministerial promise , which be why I see no reason for the Government not to accept my amendment . Broadcast television have work and , as the clich é have it , " if it ain ' t break , don ' t fix it . " my amendment would keep the Government from fix a problem that simply do not exist at this point , and I commend those amendment , as well as the other new clause and amendment to which I have speak , to the House . I would like to address a number of the amendment we have be discuss — some I support , some I oppose . let I start on a positive note with new clause 7 , which be table by the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) . the new clause seek to introduce protection for digital on - demand coverage of list event , include clip and highlight of those event , and allow for time - shift viewing . that be increasingly important for audience , as it would enable view on multi - use device or the viewing of event that take place overnight in other time zone , as we often see with the olympic game and sometimes the World cup , depend on where they be in the world . there be practical example of how that change would make a difference . at the olympic game in Tokyo , the gold - win performance by BMX specialist Charlotte Worthington be watch by only 400 , 000 people because it take place in the middle of the night , yet in the day that follow , different form of short - form coverage of the race generate a nearly tenfold increase in view . it be not just about time - shift ; that can also happen just because that be how people absorb content these day . for instance , for the 2022 Commonwealth game in Birmingham , the tv reach be about 20 % low than for the 2014 game in Glasgow , but there be about six time more on - demand view of digital clip . the problem be that without enhanced regulatory protection , what should be share national moment risk be lose to many people behind a paywall . this Bill be a genuine opportunity to safeguard the future of list event , as they be now view , for future generation . as it stand , the Bill offer no protection for digital on - demand right , yet , as I say , that be now a key way in which many people consume such event . I support the new clause because it would ensure that , where possible , adequate digital on - demand coverage of list event , such as those clip and excerpt , be make available free of charge to audience in the United Kingdom . I pray in aid the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , of which I be a member . when we look at this question , we conclude : " digital right should be include as part of the Listed event regime to reflect sweeping change in how audience consume content since the original legislation be pass . we recommend that the Government include provision in the Bill to enable digital right to be include in the Listed event regime without the need for further primary legislation . " I know the Government recognise the issue and have consult the industry about it , but a year later they have not yet report on the finding of their review . if those protection be bring in , they would broadly mirror the framework that currently provide protection for live coverage . the new clause seek to ensure that , where right holder grant right for digital on - demand coverage , it be not do on an exclusive basis and there be an opportunity for audience in the UK to enjoy that coverage for free . I appreciate that my hon . friend the Member for Worthing West have say he will not press his new clause to a vote at this stage , but I hope the Minister be listen and that the Government will take this away and move an amendment in the other place that meet the need that my hon . friend be try to meet . I also support amendment 78 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , which offer the possibility for local digital tv service to be give the protection of the prominence regime . I think he undersell the historic nature of have the Minister who take the Bill through Committee move an amendment on Report . he say he be sure it have happen before , but I be absolutely sure it be the first time any Minster who take a Bill through Committee stage because of maternity cover have try to amend it on Report . for parliamentary procedure nerd , that alone make it an historic moment , but there be also great merit in his suggestion . while I be refer to he , I note that there have be various description of he from those on the Opposition Benches as a " temporary Minister " . I should say to the House , from some experience , that all minister be temporary at all time . the only permanent thing in any Department be the permanent secretary . revert to the substance of the amendment , local tv be an increasingly important part of the landscape . it be still very small scale , by its definition , and it have have a rocky past , but there be clearly a market and a demand for it , and it be increasingly become part of the broadcasting landscape . the only thing I would add , since the amendment be speak to so well by my right hon . friend , be that it must apply to genuinely local station . it be important to establish that caveat . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend about local television . People talk about specify channel and programme for language , but there be many area , such as my constituency and his , where it be important that local viewer get a chance to see their specific area and discussion relevant to they , rather than just regional television . that be why it be important that local television should be include . I completely agree with my hon . friend . there be distinct market for regional tv and local tv . in some part of the country the region be so large that large part of what national broadcaster tend to regard as local tv be not local to people and do not register with their interest , whereas local tv can genuinely do that , as local radio do and have always do . I wish to speak in support of the various Government amendment that cover radio , not least because part 5 and 6 of the Bill be particularly important in enhance the prospect of radio flourish in future . many people have be predict radio ' s demise for some time , but the sector be do strongly . I hope that will continue , and anything that encourage that in the Bill be extremely welcome . some of the amendment remove an out - of - date requirement on Ofcom to impose fine on national analogue station such as talkSPORT if they seek to terminate the broadcasting of analogue transmission before the end of their licence period . I do not think there be any plan for that to happen , but it seem sensible to make such flexibility available , not least because analogue transmission and listening be become increasingly rare . some 76 % of listen to commercial radio be now on digital platform , and look ahead to the future seem perfectly sensible . amendment 53 to 59 that would ensure a DCMS consultation before regulation that affect a radio selection service be also sensible . the measure restate the need to ensure access through voice activate smart - speaker — a massively grow and important part of radio listening — and the big tech company that make and operate those speaker , and which also provide content , clearly need a strong regulatory regime to stop any abuse of the market power that those big company have . this have be a significant debate . we also have it in the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , and it be important that the regulatory regime recognise the reality of where power lie in modern broadcasting . move to amendment that I be less keen on , I agree with the News Media Association that the argument for state - back regulation of the press have be lose , and the amendment introduce eloquently and with great sincerity by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) be flog a horse that I be afraid die some time ago . I do not think there be a need for his amendment — rise — I suspect that might happen . my right hon . friend will know that the royal charter on self - regulation of the press , which the conservative party establish , be still alive and well , and the Government have no plan for its dissolution . my right hon . friend ' s amendment seek to revive the argument from more than 10 year ago , but I think that argument have go . the world have move on and the press have move on . we have a discussion about whether regulation or the application of the law be the appropriate way to do this , and I submit that the reason why press behaviour have change be simply the effective application of the law , and the fact that many newspaper group have have to pay huge amount of money because they break the law in behave the way they do 10 , 15 and 20 year ago . that lead to the change in behaviour . where my right hon . friend and I would come close together be on slapp case , and the need for legislation to allow individual not to be intimidate by rich publishing company . I know the Government have commit to introduce legislation to see those sort of case dismiss at the early possible stage , and I urge my colleague on the Front Bench to do that as soon as possible . while I be in sceptical mode , I similarly question the need for the various new clause , propose by member in all part of the House , that would mandate a more rigid system of age classification for programme already regulate by Ofcom . I absolutely get the intention behind they , which be to protect child from unsuitable content , but I be instinctively wary of suggestion that would mean one regulator have to consult another before introduce a code of conduct . Ofcom have considerable power , and it can operate those power . I do not think it sensible to try to tie this down to any particular age classification system , not least because some public service broadcaster , who be pretty responsible in not try to expose content that be unsuitable for child , operate system of protection that do not rely on age classification . ITV have its guidance system , and many broadcaster operate a system involve a PIN that sensible parent will keep from their child so that they can be protect at home . be that not exactly the point ? we have world - class regulation in the British Board of Film Classification , which give we a benchmark . a good arrangement would be for broadcaster and other platform to register with an organisation like the BBFC and have to pay a registration fee , and for the regulator to regulate that rather than the other way round . my right hon . friend talk about responsible parent , but we need to guide the people who do not know what to look for , who be not media - savvy , and who need some guidance . even our public service broadcaster do not always get it right , and sometimes there be content that really should not be see by those age 15 and under . I take my hon . friend ' s point , but I return to my original point . give that the Bill and indeed our whole regulatory structure be base on Ofcom , and give that the Bill seek to give Ofcom proper power to provide , in this instance , protection for child in an appropriate way , introduce another different system would , I suspect , lead to more confusion rather than less . that be precisely what the Bill will do : it will introduce a different system . at present Ofcom be responsible for regulate the public service broadcaster , which it do through the watershed , and the BBFC be responsible for dvd and cinema . we now have a completely new landscape which resemble the dvd landscape much more closely because it be available on demand . it be therefore sensible to introduce an age - rating system base roughly on what the BBFC do , because the BBFC , not Ofcom , be the expert in that field . I fear that we may go down a rabbit hole . Ofcom be the expert in that field , but the system be base on film classification . the age - rating system be design for a situation where a person go through a door and someone make a guess whether that person be 16 or 18 or 12 , for instance . will my right hon . friend give way again ? I will give my hon . friend one more go . I take my right hon . friend ' s point . however , the BBFC classifie not just film but item that be stream directly and never release in cinema by tag every rateable incident , such as a swear word or an episode of violence , and use that system to come up with a verifiable , standardised rating that everyone understand . it be exactly the same process as the one that be use to verify a video on demand , and it be what Netflix already use to rate its own video . Netflix use it , but , as my hon . friend herself say early , Disney do not . there will of course be difference . I think that overregulating will just lead to disadvantage for people who be try to produce content , and that insist on one system that be partly design for one mode of operation may well not work for another operation . if Ofcom do its job effectively it will achieve what we all want to see , which be age - inappropriate content not be available to child . as I have say , involve more than one regulator normally lead to confusion and bad regulation than would have exist otherwise . as I say , a number of the amendment be wholly desirable , and I hope that the Government adopt they ; other be less so , and I hope that the Government will resist they . I close by say that this be a very good Bill , long overdue , and I wish it well in its future stage . it be an honour to follow the right hon . member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , who , like I , be a member of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . he speak with authority on many of these issue , although I do not agree with everything he say . however , I certainly agree with he about broadcast highlight of major sporting event , and I hope the Government be listen . I welcome the position take by Labour Front Benchers , who have say they will support amendment 2 . I be delighted that they have be listen to those of we who have be involve in this issue for a number of year and who have support the work of Hacked off . I claim only a minor support role ; other Opposition Members have do far more than I have . none the less , I have be at those meeting and in those discussion . at time , I have take part in debate in which I have commit to support the aim and objective of people who have be fight hard through Hacked Off , and I be delighted that we be not close the door on they completely today . I commend the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) not just for his amendment , but for the way he have negotiate with other on this issue to get we to what I consider to be a compromise position — one that can allow we to go forwards and not close the door completely on the issue of an independent press complaint system . as he describe early , his amendment remove the stick element , which be the element that be most oppose by people work in the press . I think it would have give they the incentive to join a proper independent complaint system . none the less , it be a stick point and , in this compromise , remove it be the right thing to do at this stage . then there be the issue of the carrot . many of we have take part in debate in this place about slapp order , which enable those with a great deal of wealth at their disposal to abuse our legal system in order to shut down independent reporting that expose wrongdoing and shine a light into the place that need it . my hon . friend underestimate his own role in this area , which have be very strong . I suspect that , like I , he wish that we be see section 40 commence rather than repeal today , as I be sure do the McCanns , the Dowlers , Christopher Jefferies and all the other historical victim of press abuse . give that we be go for the carrot rather than the stick — the carrot be well than nothing — can my hon . friend explain why there be not universal support for that across the House ? I will leave it to other to explain why they be adopt their position , but I do take issue with some of the assertion that have be make by some Government Members , who say that the current system be an improvement on what we have before . as I point out early , the IPSO system receive over 14 , 000 complaint in 2021 , but only 88 of they , or 0 . 6 % , be uphold — less than 1 % . I challenge anyone to say that it be a satisfactory situation to have so few complaint uphold . I meet a mother , Mandy Garner , for the first time yesterday . her daughter be kill in a hit - and - run . in the 24 hour after Mandy be give the news and try to relay it to her family , the Daily Mail go down to the scene of the crime and manage to purchase CCTV footage from a nearby shop that show the accident take place . the Daily Mail do not actually show the moment of impact in the medium , but within that 24 hour , it post that recording for people to watch under a clickbait headline . that happen in 2020 , 10 year after hack Off start its campaign . Mandy describe her experience in an article : " the Daily Mail publish the CCTV footage of my daughter ' s last moment the morning after her death with a lurid clickbait headline — just as we be try to explain to our other child what have happen . I complain that it be an intrusion into grief and therefore in breach of IPSO ' s code on this . I think it be an open and closed case . clearly , it be a breach . if it wasn ' t , what actually would constitute a breach ? " month of to - ing and fro - ing with the Daily Mail follow , while Mandy be mourn her daughter . she go on : " eventually … IPSO rule that it be not a breach of their code . one of the reason give be that you couldn ' t make out my daughter ' s face because the footage be ' grainy ' " . there be nothing about how the footage would impact on the people who know what have happen and know who be involve , or about the family ' s concern that the brother and sister of the young woman who have die would see the footage . if that be a satisfactory complaint system , I fail to understand what people think we be seek to achieve when we go through all of Leveson and support set up the royal commission . these issue continue to occur . the Calcutt report describe the Press Complaints Commission , which IPSO be set up to replace , as have be " set up by the industry , finance by the industry , dominate by the industry , and operate a code of practice devise by the industry and which be over - favourable to the industry " . if that description of the Press Complaints Commission be not what we see now , I don ' t know what be . for people to assert that we be in a well place under IPSO be completely false and wrong . far to that , the Government want to repeal section 40 in its entirety , but high - profile case be come down the road that will attract a great deal of public attention , and they will focus attention back on this area of press complaint and have an independent complaint system . they will call into question the decision of this House to repeal section 40 . I feel that the Government be in the wrong place on this issue , which be why I support amendment 2 , table by the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) . we can not close the door on this matter ; the debate on it be not finish yet . there be much more to come , and it would be wrong of this House to shut the door on an independent press complaint commission in the way that a repeal of section 40 do . I rise to speak to amendment 1 , table by my right hon . friend and fellow Cornishman , the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) . it would simply put a requirement on Ofcom to ensure that due regard be pay to the Council of Europe ' s framework convention for the protection of national minority when assess the fulfilment of the public service remit . this be of particular interest to we Cornish , because it be almost 10 year since the Council of Europe formally recognise the Cornish as a national minority and the Government accept that recognition . this be a historic moment for those of we from the west of the Tamar , because although the Cornish have historically be recognise by this place as distinct from the English , this be the first time for a very long time that the Government have also recognise that . the Government say that the Cornish would be give the same recognition and status as the other celtic nation of the UK — the Scots , the Welsh and the Irish . over the last 10 year , we have be grapple with what that mean in application . it be disappointing to say that , at time , the Government have be criticise by the Council of Europe for not do enough to deliver on this new recognition and status . the Bill give the Government a straightforward opportunity to do something fairly simple yet tangible that would give meaning to the recognition of cornish national minority status . it be clear that Cornwall have a history , heritage and culture that be distinct from England ' s , and distinct within the UK . it be unique in many way , and we have far more in common with our celtic cousin around the fringe of the UK . we have our own language , and it have see a revival over the last 10 or 20 year , with many school now promote the cornish language and holding workshop . UNESCO have upgrade Cornish from extinct to critically endanger . it be important that we recognise and seek to continue this progress . I be grateful to my hon . friend for support amendment 1 . he make a powerful case for why Cornwall be unique and different . do he agree that if the BBC have due regard for the framework convention on national minority , it would take a very different approach to local radio ? at the moment , the BBC treat Cornwall like any other part of England . my right hon . friend make a very good point that I be go to make . there be clearly a role for the BBC in help to protect , promote and inform about cornish culture and the cornish language . measure in this Bill could be strengthen to ensure that the BBC play that role , thereby help the Government to fulfil their responsibility to give due recognition to the Cornish . we have see a revival and fresh interest in cornish culture and history in recent year , some of which be down to the hugely successful " Poldark " series , which , for many , have bring to life the history of Cornwall and its role in the industrial revolution . other programme have also help to put the spotlight on our unique cornish culture . I think particularly of " the Fisherman ' s Apprentice " , in which Monty Halls go to live in one of our very small fishing community to highlight both the historical and modern - day struggle of such place . we be look for programme that present a picture of the true Cornwall and our history , heritage and culture , not programme that present the idealistic , picture - postcard view of Cornwall , and that be just advert for more second homeowner . we have rich , deep and strong heritage and culture in Cornwall , which be what we want to present and protect . in this day of increase multiculturalism — I do not want to go down that rabbit hole — and with all that be happen in the world , it be important that we do everything we can to protect the uniqueness of our cornish culture . it be clear that broadcast medium can play an important role in help we to do just that , and in help the Government to give real meaning and value to the recognition of cornish national minority status in the UK . I be not call for our own cornish station , just as Scotland and Wales have particular station — I be not go that far — but more could be do to set an expectation that the BBC will give due regard to Cornish protect national minority status in its public service broadcasting responsibility . that be simply what amendment 1 would do . I understand that my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth do not intend to press it to a Division , but I ask the Minister to give careful consideration to the point that we have make , and to the purpose of the amendment , and to look carefully at whether the Government can adopt the measure or something similar as a clear sign of the importance that they place on protect and promote our cornish culture and heritage . I agree with all of that , except I be not quite sure how four country can be describe as a fringe . rather , I would call we the anchor hold the Anglo - Saxon peninsula otherwise know as England in place . during the lengthy passage of the Bill , we on the SNP Benches have engage with the UK Government in good faith . we all want a healthy , function , responsible and free medium . my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) cover many aspect of the Bill in detail , and it be unnecessary for I to repeat anything that she say , so I will concentrate on the aspect of language . historically , the Conservatives have express great support for the gaelic language . indeed , at my suggestion , the House of Commons Select Committee on Culture , Media and Sport , on which I sit , have launch an inquiry on the future of Gaelic and other minority language in these island . therefore , one piece of UK Government recalcitrance have be strike : why have the UK Government be so resistant to make statutory mention of the gaelic language and of Gaelic service ? we all agree , cross party , that this beautiful , ancient and vibrant language make a vital contribution to our cultural life , and we know that its vastly positive impact dwarf the miserly public expenditure on it . I come from a long line of gaelic speaker . neither of my grandmother have English as their first language — my mither ' s mither be from Scotstoun and speak scot , and my faither ' s mither come from the island of Harris and speak Gaelic . I be the first generation not to speak the language at all . that be all too common a story in Scotland , where prejudice against and punishment of gaelic speaker have see the language retreat to the heartland . gaelic broadcasting have be vital in slow the language ' s decline by introduce it to new generation of young scot , nurture a more enlightened attitude towards Gaelic across Scotland and the United Kingdom . gaelic programme producer have offer their expertise ; they volunteer to engage with member during the drafting of the Bill and amendment to it . in particular , I mention John Morrison and Donald Campbell of MG Alba . it be therefore disappointing that the UK Government have not draw sufficiently on that expertise and heed the call to reaffirm explicitly their commitment to Gaelic in the digital age . MG Alba , in its write evidence , say that the Bill " will create a visible disparity in the treatment by Parliament of Gaelic and Welsh broadcasting , " mean that " the gaelic language will continue to be invisible in statute and , as a result , continue to suffer from unclear status and uncertain funding . " I wish to record the disappointment feel among gaelic broadcaster and the wide Gaelic - speak community . do the hon . Member agree that one of the good way for language lover to cherish and build up language , minority language in particular , be to avoid what sometimes happen , which be the great politicisation of minority language ? that become divisive , and people react badly . I do agree . I see no reason why language should be party political . they be a share cultural asset . when I look online , I be astonish to see people who do not share my constitutional position sometimes attack scot or Gaelic , as if it belong to we and not they . the language belong to all of we , as do the other national minority language . I hope that we will highlight some of the important shortfall and opportunity when I join my friend the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) and cross - party colleague in take evidence from expert witness during our minority language inquiry . I be in hospital , recover from injury and surgery during some of the Bill ' s passage . I extend my gratitude to my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North , who work so assiduously on the measure in my absence and who consistently do so much good work in the House . as be she will not , she spend long hour in Committee , tirelessly scrutinise the Bill line by line . I note that not a single Scottish National party or other Opposition amendment be accept by the UK Government — yet another bizarre example of Westminster ' s method . we turn up , work hard , research diligently , engage with stakeholder , contribute to debate and then we be largely ignore . the Government be force through their curious insistence on Channel 4 ' s produce its own content . that be a fig leaf to justify the inordinate waste of time and money on yet another aborted attempt to privatise the channel . as we all know , Channel 4 , which be surely well place to determine its need , do not want that power . what be it , Mr Deputy Speaker , that a Conservative Cabinet Minister once say about policy making — we have " have enough of expert " ? I thank member for their contribution to today ' s debate , and indeed during prelegislative scrutiny and the Bill ' s passage thus far . the Bill have fantastic support . I have work on it since 2021 and I be pleased to be back in post , take over from the interim Minister — whom I prefer to call the eminent , knowledgeable knight and former Secretary of State — my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) ; but as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) say , we be all temporary in this place . I be glad to take the Bill through its final stage , and I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon for his work and his defence of our position on section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 . he be in the curious position of amend a Bill for which he be once Minister . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford say , our right hon . friend the Member for Maldon be break new parliamentary boundary . as we all know , internet access and streaming service have fundamentally change how audience access broadcast content , but our public service broadcaster and radio service be govern by law write 20 or more year ago . the Bill be vital to enable our psb to continue to be world lead in their content and to serve UK audience , while also drive growth in the creative industry across the UK . I shall briefly address some of the issue that have be raise , but I will first deal with the Government amendment . they be minor and technical and seek to ensure that the exist policy position be properly operational . I have write to member with more detail . I be glad to have the support of my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford , particularly for the radio amendment . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) for his sustained interest . he be a passionate campaigner and have be push on section 40 for many year . the Government recognise the intent of his amendment , but their effect would not be to repeal section 40 , but to delay its repeal while a consultation take place . we feel that that would be at odd with our double manifesto commitment to repeal section 40 in full , notwithstanding my right hon . friend ' s view that the manifesto be not the good that we have produce and that there may have be some draft error in the publication . I understand that new clause 3 would delay the commencement of clause 50 , but that be not the case with amendment 2 , which would simply remove one part of section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 . we have concern about my right hon . friend ' s amendment as a package . one issue be about delay , but another be about some of the small publisher that do not wish to be part of a regulator . that have be debate at some length this afternoon . I be glad that my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon be pleased about the Government amendment on AM . we discuss the matter together . I note his point about local television . he kindly accept the unlikelihood of our accept his amendment , but we will continue to consider his representation . as always , I be glad of the support of the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) . he suggest that the proposal to privatise Channel 4 be part of a vendetta , but it be bear of a fundamental concern for its sustainability . we have put forward measure in the Bill to give Channel 4 great freedom . we want the channel to survive and to have the flexibility to continue do what it do . to the point raise in relation to those new power , it will be grant the freedom to produce its own content , but it do not have to use they if it do not feel that be necessary . on public service content be prominently and easily accessible , as be already the case in the linear space , we want PSB content to be as prominent as possible , but there be a question in relation to appropriate language . as have be discuss at length , the core aim be to secure prominence for PSB service and content online , but for it to be flexible , operable and proportionate , so that we can design the Bill for innovation and consumer choice . we be give Ofcom the power to establish that balance . the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , along with my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford and other , raise the issue of digital right . we recognise the intent behind the amendment to bring digital right within the scope of the list event regime . the Select Committee , ably chair by my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , make a recommendation that would support that outcome . while there be a great deal of support in Parliament for that and I be sympathetic , it be a complex issue . we have see how technical just the Government amendment to close the streamer loophole be . add digital right would be a much big change , bring more complexity . it be important that we maintain the right balance between access for audience and the commercial freedom that allow right holder to reinvest in their sport at all level . we want to get the balance right , and our priority be the impact on the public . it be important that audience can watch and celebrate major sporting moment , but broadcasting right provide sport ' national governing body with essential income , enable they to invest in their sport , whether at elite or grassroots level . we want to fully evaluate the issue , include how it could be well deliver , before consider legislation that enact any particular conclusion . I assure Members the issue be under careful consideration and we have not yet make a decision . the House will have listen with interest to the Minister ' s response to the point make by member from across the Chamber , but the Government have get to try to sort this out while the Bill be before Parliament . we want to hear from she that the Government be capable of come to the Lords with an amendment or new clause that do not get rid of the interest for the commercial bidder , but say that , when digital and reproduction right come up for sale , the interest of people in our country , our team and the sport that we regard as important , whether they be new or old , established one , be take into account . the House will not be satisfied unless the Government come forward with a proposal about what they can either agree with the right holder or the potential right bidder . the House of Lords will be right to insist on something that address that issue , and we want to support they . I appreciate that my hon . friend want to put down a marker on the issue — I have hear that , and so have the Secretary of State . I maintain that the issue of right be more complex than one might imagine . we want to get the balance right , and we will continue to look at that . move to the amendment on the issue of age rating , we be in complete agreement on the need to protect child and vulnerable audience from harmful and inappropriate video on demand content . I have two child ; I have push for child to remain in the remit and for there to be protection for they . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) talk about the importance of public service broadcaster and access to they . a fundamental drive force of the Bill be that we want child to be able to continue to access public service broadcaster . for the first time , we be bring mainstream tv - like , on - demand service in the scope of a new video on demand code , to be draft and enforce by Ofcom . I welcome the general support for the Bill give by my hon . friend the Members for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) and for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) . Ofcom will be get new power under the Bill to look at broad protection measure and to mandate specific approach in the code , if deem necessary , which could be BBFC age rating . we be try to move to a more outcome - base approach rather than a prescriptive approach . we think that there have be great innovation in the space of parental control , which have often be more effective than a badge rating . however , I have hear what have be say in the House today and we will continue to listen on this subject . the hon . member for Aberdeen North also raise the issue of protection for viewer watch on device such as PlayStations . I simply wish to reassure she that the definition of " on - demand programme service " be not platform - specific ; Disney and Netflix view on a game console would be cover . she also raise question about the size of producer of content . small producer be not keen on some of the proposal that she have make , as they be concerned that they might one day be large producer and therefore be penalise . we would not want to disincentivise their growth . let I move on to scottish broadcasting in general . we believe that the Bill will bring significant benefit to the scottish broadcasting sector and creative economy . I do not underestimate the vital role that our public service broadcaster play in support that scottish screen sector . the Bill contain provision to encourage our psb to broadcast programme in indigenous , regional and minority language , such as Gaelic , by include they in our new PSB remit for television . I know that this be extremely important to numerous Scottish Members in this House , and I hope the Government ' s effort here be recognise . the partnership between MG Alba and the BBC be particularly significant for gaelic language broadcasting . I can assure Members that the ongoing provision of Gaelic will be a key consideration as the Secretary of State and I progress the BBC funding review and the forthcoming BBC charter review . of course , scottish audience will also continue to benefit from the prominence provision in the Bill . the Government be also aware of Members ' concern about be able to access tv via terrestrial mean , and I have speak to my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) about that directly . the Bill do not include provision on that , but I wish to reassure the House that the Government remain committed to the future of DTT and to protect the million of household who continue to rely on it . that be why we have legislate to secure its continuity until at least 2034 , but let I be clear that 2034 be not a cliff edge for DTT . we have allow the renewal of the current multiplex licence so that they last until the end of 2034 , but that do not mean that DTT will not continue after that point . even if the Government simply sit on their hand , Ofcom would still be able to re - advertise the multiplex licence , and our public service broadcaster could continue distribute their linear channel over DTT . furthermore , specific primary legislation would be require to remove the multiplex licensing regime , for example . we be always keen to make sure that major sporting event be publicly available as widely as possible , which be why we have the list event regime , but this be a balance act . it be another issue where we be try to find a course through . sport right holder use income from the sale of right to the benefit of the wide sporting sector . a lot of sport do not want the list event regime to be open up . I know that the Scottish National party like the idea of a Government list event fund , but SNP Members do not acknowledge the distortive effect it would have on the value of right , nor do they say who would pay for it . I suspect that the UK taxpayer would and , once again , SNP promise would be pay for by everybody else . these SNP promise be to protect all govern body in the UK , not simply scottish one . I just want to correct the record on that . will the Minister not admit that devolve sporting govern body be unfairly disadvantaged , give the size of our tv network , and therefore our free - to - air broadcaster be unable to bid , win and secure the right ? by contrast , the English Football Association , for example , have a large tv market , where we have see ITV , then Channel 4 and now ITV again show the game . I bow to my ministerial colleague the sport Minister on the intricacy of sport funding . however , on the list event regime , it be for the Scottish Government not only to make a recommendation to we if they want to expand that , but to have the discussion with scottish sporting body as to whether that be actually something they want . I will finish by respond to my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) . I be glad to say that culture and heritage be directly address in the update public service remit for television . Ofcom be therefore require to ensure that public service broadcaster collectively make available content reflect the cultural interest and tradition of the UK and different local area within the UK , which I would expect to include Cornwall . I thank you again , Mr Deputy Speaker , and all member present for their contribution to the debate . I be grateful for the scrutiny the Bill have receive ; it have benefit greatly from the expertise of everybody in this Chamber . I commend the Bill to the House . I understand , Mr Eustice , that you wish to withdraw new clause 3 . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . New Clause 13 - Gaelic language service " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , review whether a Gaelic language service should be give a public service broadcast remit . " — ( Thangam Debbonaire . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Samantha Dixon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling the House divide : Ayes 194 , Noes 294 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 16 - list event " ( 1 ) the Broadcasting Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 97 ( as amend by section 299 of the Communications Act 2003 ) , after subsection ( 1B ) insert — " ( 1A ) the follow event must be include in Group A of the list draw up under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) the Olympic Games ; ( b ) the Paralympic Games ; ( c ) the FIFA World Cup Finals Tournament ; ( d ) the FIFA Women ' s World Cup Finals Tournament ; ( e ) the European Football Championship Finals Tournament ; ( f ) the European Women ' s Football Championship Finals Tournament ; ( g ) the FA Cup Final ; ( h ) the Scottish FA Cup Final ; ( i ) the Grand National ; ( j ) the Wimbledon Tennis Finals ; ( k ) the Rugby Union World Cup Final ; ( l ) six nation Rugby Tournament Matches involve Home Countries ; ( m ) the Derby ; ( n ) the Rugby League Challenge Cup Final ; ( o ) any match involve the national team of Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland or England pertain to qualification for the event list in paragraph ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) and ( f ) . " " — ( Gavin Newlands . ) this new clause would make it compulsory for the Secretary of State to place the list of sporting event in Group A of listed sporting event , ensure they be available on free to air television in their entirety . the event consist of all current Group A event plus the home nation World Cup and Euro qualifier . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Peter Grant Steven Bonnar Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling the House divide : Ayes 193 , Noes 295 . question accordingly negative . clause 2 - ofcom report : wide review and report obligation Amendment make : 19 , page 6 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) and ( c ) , for " objective " substitute " requirement " . " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment secure that section 264A ( 2 ) of the Communications Act 2003 refer to " public service requirement " . clause 20 - category of relevant service Amendments make : 20 , page 23 , line 18 , leave out " television programme service and internet programme " and insert " relevant " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 21 , page 24 , line 4 , leave out " an internet programme " and insert " a relevant " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 22 , page 24 , line 5 , after " be " insert " or form part of " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 23 , page 24 , line 6 , leave out first " the service " and insert " it " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 24 , page 24 , line 6 , leave out second " the service " and insert " it " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 25 , page 24 , line 8 , leave out " an internet programme " and insert " a relevant " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 26 , page 24 , line 14 , leave out " no . 26 , internet programme " and insert " relevant " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . Amendment 27 , page 24 , leave out line 20 to 22 and insert — " ( a ) television programme service ; " . this amendment substitute " television programme service " , a term that refer to the type of service in section 98 ( 7 ) ( a ) to ( c ) of the Broadcasting Act 1996 , insert by clause 20 , and restrict service . amendment 28 , page 24 , leave out line 23 . this amendment secure that relevant service be define without reference to the concept of internet programme service . amendment 29 , page 24 , line 24 , leave out from " service " to end of line 26 . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 30 , page 24 , line 27 , leave out from " service " to end of line 29 . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 31 , page 25 , line 1 , leave out " an " and insert " a television programme service , " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 27 . amendment 32 , page 25 , leave out line 3 . — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . clause 21 - contract relate to coverage of list event Amendments make : 33 , page 25 , line 14 , leave out from " force " to " for " in line 16 and insert " which grant right to include in a relevant service live coverage of the whole or any part of a Group A event " . this amendment secure that the amendment of section 99 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 be in term of " grant right " . Amendment 34 , page 25 , line 32 , after " service " insert " which — " ( i ) if the first relevant service form part of an internet programme service , be also a service that do not form part of the same internet programme service , and ( ii ) be not a service that be separate from the first relevant service only because section 98 ( 2b ) apply to it " . this amendment secure that the other relevant service be not a relevant service that form part of the same internet programme service and be not a separate relevant service only because of section 98 ( 2B ) , insert by clause 20 ( 2 ) . amendment 35 , page 26 , line 8 , leave out " after " service " insert " or internet programme " and insert " for " television programme service " substitute " relevant " . — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . clause 22 - restriction on show live coverage of list event Amendments make : 36 , page 26 , line 22 , after " ( 2 ) , " insert " ( 2A ) , ( 2b ) " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 37 . amendment 37 , page 26 , leave out line 23 to 35 and insert — " ( 2 ) live coverage of a list event be authorise by this subsection if — ( a ) identical right to include live coverage of the event in a relevant service other than the first service ( " the second service " ) have be acquire , and ( b ) the second service — ( i ) be provide by a person other than the provider of the first service , ( ii ) fall into a different category from the first service , ( iii ) be not a relevant service other than the first service only because section 98 ( 2b ) apply to it , and ( iv ) be provide for an area that consist of or include all or almost all of the area for which the first service be provide . ( 2A ) live coverage of a list event be authorise by this subsection if — ( a ) right to include live coverage of the event in two or more relevant service other than the first service ( " the second and further service " ) have be acquire , ( b ) those right , take together , constitute identical right to include live coverage of the event in the second and further service , ( c ) each of the second and further service — ( i ) be provide by a person other than the provider of the first service , ( ii ) fall into a different category from the first service , ( iii ) be not a relevant service other than the first service only because section 98 ( 2b ) apply to it , and ( iv ) be provide for an area that consist of or include all or almost all of the area for which the first service be provide . ( 2b ) live coverage of a list event be authorise by this subsection if — ( a ) the event be a sporting event that involve different sport , ( b ) right to include live coverage of the event in two or more relevant service other than the first service ( " the second and further service " ) have be acquire , ( c ) that additional coverage , take as a whole , be adequate live coverage of the event , ( d ) each of the second and further service be a television programme service , and ( e ) each of the second and further service — ( i ) be provide by a person other than the provider of the first service , ( ii ) fall into a different category from the first service , ( iii ) be not a relevant service other than the first service only because section 98 ( 2b ) apply to it , and ( iv ) be provide for an area that consist of or include all or almost all of the area for which the first service be provide . " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment alter substitute section 101 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 to include case where the showing of an event be authorise by coverage in two or more relevant service and to make more specific provision about the coverage of multisport event . clause 23 - Regulations about coverage of list event Amendments make : 38 , page 27 , line 33 , leave out " 101 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( ii ) " and insert " 101 ( 2B ) ( c ) " . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 37 . amendment 39 , page 27 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) regulation make by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) ( aa ) may , in particular — ( a ) describe what represent the provision of adequate live coverage by reference to — ( i ) the duration of the live coverage ( whether express as a percentage of the duration of the proceeding or otherwise ) , ( ii ) the number of television programme service in which the live coverage be include , or ( iii ) a combination of those matter ; ( b ) provide for live coverage not to be take into account if the provider of the service be unable to select what part of the proceeding be cover . ( 2b ) when make regulation by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) ( aa ) , OFCOM must have regard to — ( a ) the form of live coverage that OFCOM consider be likely to satisfy the interest of member of the public in the United Kingdom or an area of the United Kingdom in list event of the sort to which section 101 ( 2B ) ( c ) relate ; ( b ) the desirability of facilitate the making of arrangement under which right to include live coverage of sporting event that involve different sport be acquire by provider of relevant service in both of the category of relevant service set out in section 98 ( 1 ) . " " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment make provision about the regulation that OFCOM may make under the power confer by section 104ZA ( 1 ) ( aa ) of the Broadcasting Act 1996 ( insert by clause 23 ) . clause 25 - section 20 to 24 : further provision Amendment make : 40 , page 30 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) OFCOM must draw up a code under section 104 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 as soon as practicable after paragraph 18 of Schedule 2 to this Act ( amendment of section 104 ) come into force . ( 5 ) the code draw up by OFCOM in accordance with subsection ( 4 ) be not to have effect in relation to any time before section 22 of this Act come into force . ( 6 ) regulation under section 55 ( 5 ) ( transitional , transitory or save provision in connection with commencement ) may provide for the old section 104 code to continue to have effect in relation to case specify in the regulation after the come into force of the code draw up by OFCOM in accordance with subsection ( 4 ) . ( 7 ) in this section — " OFCOM " mean the Office of Communications ; " the old section 104 code " mean the code draw up under section 104 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 which be continue in effect by paragraph 51 ( 2 ) of Schedule 18 to the Communications Act 2003 . " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment require OFCOM to draw up a code under section 104 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 , as amend by this Bill . it also provide for the old code to have effect until that new code come into force and in relation to transitional case . Amendment propose : 88 , in clause 25 , page 30 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) on the date on which section 21 come into force , the Secretary of State must revise the list maintain for the purpose of Part 4 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 so that it include — ( a ) at least one cricket test match each year between the month of May and September ; ( b ) at least one cricket one Day International match each year between the month of May and September ; ( c ) all other currently list Group A event . ( 5 ) the event list under subsection ( 4 ) must be allocate to Group A . " — ( Jamie Stone . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Gregory Campbell Edward Davey Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Paul Girvan Sarah Green Wera Hobhouse Ben Lake Carla Lockhart Caroline Lucas Helen Morgan Gavin Newlands Ian Paisley Jnr Jim Shannon Jamie Stone Sammy Wilson Wendy Chamberlain Richard Foord Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling the Committee divide : Ayes 20 , Noes 288 . question accordingly negative . clause 28 - prominence on television selection service Amendments make : 41 , page 46 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( ga ) the purpose of prepare or review a code of practice under section 362AP ( code of practice relate to duty under section 362AO ) ; " this amendment add to the list of particular purpose for which information may be require by OFCOM . Amendment 42 , page 47 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 11a ) in this section , a reference to the function of OFCOM under this Part include a reference to their function under Schedules 16a and 16B , so far as relate to this Part . " this amendment make provision about the reference to OFCOM ' s function under Part 3A in section 362a of the Communications Act 2003 . amendment 43 , page 60 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 9a ) in this section , a reference to the function of OFCOM under this Part include a reference to their function under Schedules 16a and 16B , so far as relate to this Part . " this amendment make provision about reference to OFCOM ' s function under Part 3A in section 362az6 of the Communications Act 2003 . amendment 44 , page 62 , line 37 , at end insert " and Schedule 16b ( so far as relate to this Part ) " . this amendment expand the reference to Part 3A in section 362az9 ( c ) of the Communications Act 2003 . Amendment 45 , page 62 , line 40 , after " Part " insert " or Schedule 16b ( so far as relate to this Part ) " . this amendment apply section 362az10 to notice give by OFCOM under Schedule 16b , so far as relate to Part 3A . Amendment 46 , page 64 , line 32 , leave out from " service " " to end of line 34 and insert " have the meaning give by section 362AA ; " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment correct an error in section 362AZ12 ( 1 ) . clause 30 - C4C ' s duty in relation to commission programme Amendments make : 47 , page 67 , line 33 , after " service " insert " that be or form part of a designate internet programme service " . this amendment limit the reference to on - demand programme service provide by C4C to those that be or form part of a designate internet programme service . amendment 48 , page 67 , line 34 , after " service " insert " that be or form part of a designate internet programme service " . this amendment limit the reference to non - UK on - demand programme service provide by C4C to those that be or form part of a designate internet programme service . amendment 49 , page 68 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) in this section , " designate internet programme service " have the same meaning as in Part 3A ( see section 362AZ12 ) . " " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendments 47 and 48 . clause 32 - S4C ' s power and public service remit Amendments make : 50 , page 70 , line 7 , leave out " power " and insert " power " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 51 . amendment 51 , page 70 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) S4C may do anything it consider appropriate in association with anything it do in exercise of the power in subsection ( 1 ) . " this amendment confer on S4C the power to do thing other than provide audiovisual content where it consider it appropriate to do so in association with the provision of audiovisual content . — ( Julia Lopez . ) clause 41 - licensing of analogue radio service Amendment make : 52 , page 81 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) in section 103a ( renewal of national licence ) , in subsection ( 9 ) — ( a ) after paragraph ( b ) insert " and " ; ( b ) omit paragraph ( d ) and the " and " before it . ( 7b ) in section 111 ( power to revoke licence ) — ( a ) omit subsection ( 4 ) ( procedure where national service cease to be provide ) ; ( b ) in subsection ( 6 ) , omit " , ( 4 ) " . " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment remove the procedure for revocation that may be use in certain case involve licence for national analogue radio service . clause 48 - Regulation of radio selection service Amendments make : 53 , page 90 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) subsection ( 4 ) apply in relation to the making of regulation under subsection ( 5 ) as it apply in relation to the making of regulation under subsection ( 1 ) . " this amendment provide for consultation before the making of regulation under section 362BB ( 5 ) of the Communications Act 2003 . amendment 54 , page 101 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 11a ) in this section , a reference to the function of OFCOM under this Part include a reference to their function under Schedules 16a and 16B , so far as relate to this Part . " this amendment make provision about the reference to OFCOM ' s function under Part 3b in section 362BQ of the Communications Act 2003 . Amendment 55 , page 103 , line 19 , leave out " confirmation " and insert " contravention " . this amendment correct a drafting error . amendment 56 , page 108 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 9a ) in this section , a reference to the function of OFCOM under this Part include a reference to their function under Schedules 16a and 16B , so far as relate to this Part . " this amendment make provision about reference to OFCOM ' s function under Part 3b in section 362BX of the Communications Act 2003 . amendment 57 , page 110 , line 40 , at end insert " and Schedule 16b ( so far as relate to this Part ) " . this amendment expand the reference to Part 3b in section 362bz1 ( b ) of the Communications Act 2003 . amendment 58 , page 111 , line 3 , after " Part " insert " or Schedule 16b ( so far as relate to this Part ) " . this amendment apply section 362bz2 of the Communications Act 2003 to notice give by OFCOM under Schedule 16b , so far as relate to Part 3b . amendment 59 , page 112 , line 39 , at end insert — " " internet radio service " have the meaning give by section 362BF ; " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment be an addition to the define term list in section 362bz4 ( 1 ) of the Communications Act 2003 . clause 50 - Awards of cost Amendment propose : 2 , page 114 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) section 40 ( 3 ) of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 be omit . " — ( George Eustice . ) this amendment would allow the Secretary of State the option in future of commencing subsection 2 of Section 40 of the Crime and Courts act 2013 . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Bill Wiggin Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Samantha Dixon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Andrew Selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling the House divide : Ayes 195 , Noes 284 . question accordingly negative . schedule 1 - Quotas : the BBC and S4C Amendments make : 60 , page 120 , line 8 , leave out — " an on - demand programme service " and insert " a qualify audiovisual service other than one to which paragraph ( a ) relate " . this amendment alter paragraph 10 ( 1 ) ( b ) of Schedule 12 to the Communications Act 2003 , insert by paragraph 4 ( b ) of Schedule 1 , to refer to qualify audiovisual service . amendment 61 , page 120 , line 9 , leave out " the duty under paragraph 7 ( 1 ) " and insert — " a duty impose by virtue of paragraph 7 ( 1 ) or ( 4 ) " . this amendment add a reference to the duty of S4C impose by virtue of paragraph 7 ( 4 ) of Schedule 12 to the Communications Act 2003 . amendment 62 , page 120 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( d ) after sub - paragraph ( 11 ) insert — " ( 12 ) see also section 278B and 278C ( which make further provision for the interpretation of this paragraph etc ) . " " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 60 . schedule 2 - Part 1 : further amendment Amendments make : 63 , page 121 , line 13 , leave out " in section 97 ( list event ) " and insert — " ( 1 ) section 97 ( list event ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( d ) , for " televise " substitute " show " . " this amendment and Amendments 64 and 65 add amendment of the Broadcasting Act 1996 similar to those in paragraph 14 ( 2 ) and 15 of schedule 2 . amendment 64 , page 122 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) , for " televise " substitute " show " . " see explanatory statement for Amendment 63 . amendment 65 , page 122 , line 26 , after " ( 4 ) " insert — " ( a ) in paragraph ( c ) , for " televise " substitute " show " ; " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 63 . amendment 66 , page 123 , leave out line 18 and 19 . this amendment remove an unnecessary change to section 105 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 . amendment 67 , page 123 , line 26 , at end insert — " , or ( b ) be available for use by member of the public ( within the meaning of section 368r ( 4 ) of the Communications Act 2003 ) . " this amendment relate to the meaning of a reference in Part 4 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 to an on - demand programme service or a non - UK on - demand programme service be available to member of the public . amendment 68 , page 123 , line 28 , leave out from second " a " to end of line 29 . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 27 . amendment 69 , page 123 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( aa ) a reference to the provision of an on - demand programme service or a non - UK on - demand programme service be to be read in accordance with section 368r ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) of the Communications Act 2003 . " this amendment add provision about the meaning of reference in Part 4 of the Broadcasting Act 1996 to provide an on - demand programme service or a non - UK on - demand programme service . amendment 70 , page 123 , leave out line 32 to 34 . this amendment be consequential upon Amendment 28 . amendment 71 , page 123 , line 39 , after " Part " insert — " as it relate to relevant service of the kind describe in section 98 ( 7 ) ( g ) " . — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment secure consistency within section 105 ( 1D ) of the Broadcasting Act 1996 , insert by Schedule 2 . schedule 4 - chapter 2 of Part 3 : minor and consequential amendment Amendments make : 72 , page 133 , line 3 , at end insert — " 23a in section 107 ( code relate to avoidance of unjust or unfair treatment or interference with privacy ) , in subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) , for " the Welsh Authority " , in both place it occur , substitute " S4C " . " this amendment add a consequential amendment relate to S4C . amendment 73 , page 137 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , after " of a " insert " television " . " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment secure that the relevant purpose set out in paragraph 10 ( 2 ) of Schedule 12 to the Communications Act 2003 relate to television programme service . schedule 5 - tier 1 service : chapter to be insert as chapter 3 of Part 4A of the 2003 Act Amendment make : 74 , Schedule 5 , page 142 , line 31 , after " to " insert — " an on - demand programme service that be " . this amendment clarify the reference to on - demand programme service that be Tier 1 service by virtue of section 368HA ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Communications Act 2003 . Amendment make : 75 , page 146 , leave out line 9 to 14 . — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment remove repeat text . schedule 7 - tier 1 service : amendment of other legislation Amendment make : 76 , page 159 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) in Schedule 9 to that Act ( certain internet service not subject to duty relate to regulated provider pornographic content ) — ( a ) in the italic head before paragraph 5 , after " service " insert " and non - UK on - demand programme service that be Tier 1 service " ; ( b ) in paragraph 5 ( on - demand programme service ( entire internet service ) ) — ( i ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , after " programme service " insert " or a non - UK on - demand programme service that be a Tier 1 service " ; ( ii ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , for " have " substitute " , " non - UK on - demand programme service " and " tier 1 service " have " ; ( iii ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , for " section 368a " substitute " section 368A , 368AA and 368HA " ; ( c ) in the italic head before paragraph 6 , after " service " insert " and non - UK on - demand programme service that be Tier 1 service " ; ( d ) in paragraph 6 ( on - demand programme service ( part of internet service ) ) — ( i ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , after " programme service " insert " or a non - UK on - demand programme service that be a Tier 1 service " ; ( ii ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , after " programme service " insert " or a non - UK on - demand programme service that be a Tier 1 service " . " — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment add to the description of internet service that be list in Schedule 9 to the Online Safety Act 2023 and be therefore internet service that be " exempt " for the purpose of Part 5 of that Act . schedule 11 - schedule to be insert as Schedule 16b to the 2003 Act Amendment make : 77 , page 168 , line 6 , after " 362AZ ( 6 ) ( a ) " insert — " or ( as the case may be ) 362BR ( 6 ) ( a ) " . — ( Julia Lopez . ) this amendment add a reference to the correspond provision in Part 3b of the Communications Act 2003 ( insert by clause 48 ) . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I be glad that , as we finish the Bill ' s passage through this House , it be with the same enthusiasm and cross - party support as when we begin . my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) tell I that he have enjoy the Public Bill Committee , which be quite the achievement . while we have make some change to refine and clarify the intention of the measure , the Bill and its aim remain relatively unchanged . this be in part down to the considered and thoughtful contribution from industry stakeholder follow draft publication and throughout the pre - legislative scrutiny process . I would like to pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) for his effort to prepare and introduce the Bill . I be grateful for his enthusiasm and thoroughness in ensure that the Department continue to deliver for our broadcaster and journalist . he be a true champion of these industry and I know how appreciative they be of his work . even now , he sidle up to I in the Lobby try to get his particular issue over the line . I would like to extend my particular thank to the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , under the chairmanship of my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , for its thorough pre - legislative scrutiny early this year . I thank all the stakeholder for the time they give as witness to the inquiry . my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) , the hon . member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) and Baroness Stowell of Beeston have all , in their respective Chair position , play a vital part in the Bill ' s passage and I thank they for their work thus far . I should also like to thank my hon . friend the Members for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , for Aylesbury , for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) and for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) for their thoughtful and consider engagement . on the Opposition Benches , I extend my particular thank to the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) and for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) for the constructive way in which they approach the Committee scrutiny of the Bill . before the Bill move to the other place , I should also like to say thank you to the significant number of DCMS policy official and lawyer for their work in prepare such a substantial Bill alongside my parliamentary counsel . finally , as be customary — and also because I mean it — I want to say thank you to the Bill team from DCMS : Victoria MacCallum , Charlotte Brennan , Lisa Bourke , Mollie McHale , and Elie Pelling . I would also like to thank Myrtle Macpherson and Liam Hunt from private office , who have support we throughout this process . we have a truly talented medium team in DCMS , and I be grateful to they for all the work they have do and for the patience they have show throughout the year we have be work on this together . we have discuss the significance of the Bill at length . when it receive Royal Assent , we will launch a wide - range programme of secondary legislation to fully implement its measure . we will see far consider collaboration between the Government , industry and Ofcom as these new reform be implement . I look forward to see this important legislation come into force , and to support industry and Ofcom as we move into a new era for broadcasting . I commend the Bill to the House . I join the Minister in celebrate the collaborative and consensual approach to the Bill , although I be disappointed that the Government choose not to support the excellent amendment that we either table or support . I be sorry that there have be no movement yet on slapp , to which I hope we will return . I thank everyone who have contribute today , include my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and my hon . friend the Members for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) and for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) . I also thank my colleague who sit on the Public Bill Committee , include my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) , who do such a brilliant job on the Front Bench , my right hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Mr Bradshaw ) and my hon . friend the Members for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) and for Eltham . I also thank the Select Committee member who do such a great job of come up with good idea , and who be so thoughtful and consider in their work . I thank the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) for be willing to communicate with I on possible amendment . I thank colleague on both side of the House who have be open to listen to difficult argument . the Bill ' s stakeholder be many and varied . some broadcaster be thrill to bit and other still have question , but they have all be willing to take time to talk to we . we have look at a wide range of measure that we know be necessary for broadcaster , but section 40 have be difficult for many people . I respect the fact that people have approach this with serious intent , purpose and commitment . we probably will not vote on Third Reading , because we all agree that the Bill be necessary . as the Bill go to the other place , section 40 will be remove and we will not stand in its way , as my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East outline in Committee and as I reiterate now . however , we have miss an opportunity this evening for a more nuanced version of that repeal , and we be disappoint that amendment 2 do not pass . there be a further discussion to be have about how we can protect the provision of trust public interest journalism in the modern age . if we be in government after the next general election , Labour commit to work with the Press Recognition Panel , IPSO , impress and anyone else we need to work with to ensure the high standard of ethical journalism . whether it be online disinformation undermine our democratic institution , the decline of local press outlet or the rise of slapp , all these issue have to be take seriously . for now , our aim must be to ensure the passage of this Bill so that these important measure reach the statute book . the film and tv industry remain crucial to our economy , contribute more than £ 18 billion in 2020 alone and support 280 , 000 job across the country . it be right that we update the law after 20 year , so , as well as thank colleague , I thank the Clerks in the Public Bill Office , who have work incredibly hard to ensure the Bill receive proper scrutiny by assist we in draft amendment . I thank the public service broadcaster , UK radio station , tv and radio platform , podcaster , viewer representative group and all the other stakeholder . and I particularly thank the Hacked off campaigner , who have be willing to speak so generously and openly about their often painful experience . it be a pleasure to speak on Third Reading . as the Minister say , it be quite fun and enjoyable to serve on the Public Bill Committee — although the Whips Office should not see that as a hint that I want to be on every future Public Bill Committee . the medium Bill be an important piece of legislation , and a key theme throughout its passage have be the importance of prominence for our public service broadcaster — the BBC , ITV , Channel 4 and Channel 5 . I should declare that I have work for three of they , and I be sure that Channel 4 will one day complete the set . that be not a hint that I will be look for a new job in a year ' s time , perhaps much to the Opposition ' s chagrin . I be extremely pleased with the new regime to ensure appropriate prominence for public service broadcaster , but I want to say a word about it . I be pleased to hear the Minister say that there will be detailed consultation on the work with Ofcom , but it be important that Parliament set out clearly to the regulator what we mean by prominence . I look forward to the Government take a robust stance to ensure that Ofcom feel entitle and empower to adopt a muscular approach . it must be bold with the tv manufacturer in express the will of this place to ensure that the psb really be feature prominently . we need look at only one recent example of television to prove the value of psb : the drama that have make the headline in recent week , the ITV programme " Mr Bates vs . the Post Office " . it highlight an injustice to million of people who have not previously be aware of the Horizon scandal , despite the fact that it have be cover in many news medium and that the Government be already work extremely hard to provide redress and recompense for postmaster well before the drama be air . " Mr Bates " have have an immediate and important effect , but the programme could only have be make by a PSB . the nature of that story be such that , yes , it be of massive interest to the UK audience , but its international appeal as a television programme might be less evident . ITV recognise the significance of the scandal , put serious money into it and take a commercial risk that would likely not have be approve by a non - PSB . that speak to the value of the legislation before we . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight this issue , but it be also right to highlight the role of the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . for 18 month before that broadcast , the Minister work hard . we need to recognise that his 18 - month contribution coincide with the ITV programme , and the two come together at the right time . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for make that point . as I say , the Government have be act well in advance of the drama , but the programme make the public aware in a way that the news have not be able to . the Government make serious effort — he be right to draw attention to the incredible work of the current Minister with responsibility for postal service — to achieve recompense and redress , but the tv drama make the public aware of the scandal and the need for redress . Channel 5 have point out that public service content rely on " easy access " for viewer . without the reform in the Bill , the significant risk be that proper public - value content will be hard to find for audience . that can not be tenable . I be delighted that the Bill seek to overcome that . it be imperative that Ofcom ensure and assure prominence for our psb , as the House expect . I do not want to detain the House any long , but I will just say that public service broadcasting be one of the thing that make this country special . there be a Britishness about our broadcasting system and market that be unique . the Bill recognise and protect that , and I be delighted to support it . I want to say a few thank yous , but I will first talk about the Bill briefly . we need a Media Bill . I be glad that the Government be do their good to strike a balance between right and responsibility with the psb , as I say early . it be important that the Bill update the exist situation and improve thing for internet access service . it include many welcome step forward . I still have the concern I express early about the definition of on - demand service . I appreciate what the Minister say — for example , that Disney + be cover by it — but if we look at tv viewing app on a PlayStation , the order of the app or of the programme be not cover by the definition . because a PlayStation be mostly for play game , its on - demand tv section be not cover . I think more can be do to future - proof the definition and update it to ensure that it cover everything that the Government want it to cover . it should cover the way in which people generally watch television , especially those method that increase as time go on . I do not want to be overly critical , but I want to flag that point again . come to the thank yous , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) for his work and that of his team , especially on list event . he have be work on that campaign ever since I have know he , and I be certain that the rejection of his new clause today will not result in he sit quietly . he will continue to speak on behalf of scottish football fan , although six Nations rugby be also an important part of his speech . we do not take oral evidence , which be fairly unusual for a Bill Committee that start off in the House of Commons . I understand the Minister ' s reason for that decision , which involve the pre - legislative consultation that take place . however , several organisation be disappoint not to have the opportunity to give oral evidence directly to the Committee . I thank all those organisation that come forward . the shadow Secretary of State mention quite a few . many organisation have work incredibly hard to ensure that Members of Parliament know their view . I particularly thank Broadcast 2040 + , the Media Reform Coalition , BBC Alba , STV , Channel 4 , BBC , Amazon and hack Off , member of which I meet on several occasion , particularly about the amendment that we discuss today . I hope that we get close to what be promise to those who give evidence to the Leveson inquiry and to a resolution that mean great fairness for everybody . unfortunately , it feel as though the Bill be not the place where that will happen . it be clear from view across the House that change need to happen to ensure that people get the redress and justice that they hope for . I thank all those who have put time and effort into try to improve the Bill . I thank all the staff who have work on the Bill , whether those on the Government ' s Bill team or the Clerks who have do their good with the messy amendment that I send they and ask they to make into something that look vaguely sensible . those staff be never mention enough . I thank all those who have have an input into the Bill . I congratulate the Minister and the Department on get the Bill this far . if I may be presumptuous , in the unavoidable absence of the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , I thank the Minister for her kind remark about the Select Committee ' s contribution to the scrutiny of the Bill . this be probably the appropriate time to note the Bill ' s historic nature . it be 20 year since the House pass an equivalent Bill . twenty year ago , Facebook , TikTok , Snapchat and Twitter or X — whatever we call it these day — do not exist . the entire landscape have change completely . regulate with tool that be 20 year out of date be impossible . that be why it be important that the Bill be future proof . the thought occur to I that if it take 20 more year before the House come back to the subject , by then we will doubtless get sound and vision beam straight into our ear and eyeball after press the chip that will have be implant in we . regulate that will be even more difficult . I be ponder which Minister will be here in 20 year to cope with that , and it will almost certainly be my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , who have do the job on and off for several decade already . I have every confidence that he will still be do it perfectly well in the 2040s when we next come back to the subject . I echo the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) about the importance of public service broadcasting , which be one of the glory of this country . that be something that we have get right over many year . I hope and expect that the Bill will allow we to continue to get it right for many year to come . I wish the Bill well for the rest of its passage . may I simply say that if the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) be here for the next Bill , I hope that I will be in the Chair to see it ? question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Regulated Activities ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Senior Courts that the Civil Procedure ( Amendment no . 4 ) rule 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 1397 ) , date 14 December 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 18 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . adjournment ( February , Easter , May Bank Holiday and Whitsun Recesses ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 25 ) , that this House , at its rise on Thursday 8 February 2024 , do adjourn until Monday 19 February 2024 ; at its rise on Tuesday 26 March 2024 , do adjourn until Monday 15 April 2024 ; at its rise on Thursday 2 May 2024 , do adjourn until Tuesday 7 May 2024 ; and , at its rise on Thursday 23 May 2024 , do adjourn until Monday 3 June 2024 . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) question agree to . Petition - Household Support Fund beyond April 2024 I rise to present a petition about the need for the Government to fund the household support fund from April 2024 . the fund have support over 10 million people since October 2022 to afford food and utility during the cost of living crisis , prevent million from be plunge deeply into poverty . yet the Government be axe this funding in March 2024 , with no regard for the most vulnerable family across the country . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to provide adequate support for low - income household for essential through the Household Support Fund , and ensure this provision be extend beyond March 2024 . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Manchester Gorton , declare that the Household Support Fund have play a vital role in support low income household to pay for essential like energy bill and food follow the pandemic and during the cost of living crisis ; note that since October 2021 , the Government have provide over £ 2 billion to local authority in England ; far declare that over 10 million award be make use this funding between 1 October 2022 and 31 March 2023 , play an important role it play in alleviate poverty ; and far declare that the government have fail to commit to fund the Household Support Fund beyond March 2024 which risk plunge million of people across England into poverty . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to provide adequate support for low - income household for essential through the Household Support Fund , and ensure this provision be extend beyond March 2024 . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002900 ] Petition - Food Insecurity I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , relate to food insecurity . at this time of a cost of live crisis , it be shock that one in four household in the UK with child have experience food insecurity , with 28 % of young mum skip meal — a figure that rise to 37 % for those on universal credit . with your indulgence , Mr Deputy Speaker , I say to those petitioner affect by the issue and other aspect of the cost of living crisis that I be host a cost of live drop - in event on Friday at the Reconnect Regal theatre and I encourage they to come along . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to review the rate of Universal Credit to ensure it cover the essential and that no parent or child go hungry , and also that the Government introduce measure to stop oil and gas company profit at record level whilst family be unable to afford necessity . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that in a time of crisis in the cost of living , one in four UK household with child have experience food insecurity , affect an estimate four million child ; far that in their struggle to feed their child , 28 % of young mum be skip meal each day , with this figure increase to 37 % among young mum on Universal Credit ; and note that while the spiral cost of energy be affect he cost of food production , storage and transport and family find themselves choose between heating and eating , oil and gas company post record profit , pay out billion to shareholder and continue to be aid by UK Government subsidy and tax relief . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to review the rate of Universal Credit to ensure it cover the essential and that no parent or child go hungry , and also that the Government introduce measure to stop oil and gas company profit at record level whilst family be unable to afford necessity . and the petitioner remain etc . ] [ p002906 ] Petition - Ceasefire and the State of Palestine this petition , on behalf of the resident of Glasgow North , be draft before the ruling of the International Court of Justice and the decision of the UK Government to cut funding to that United Nations Relief and Works Agency , but that make the petition call for an end to the collective punishment of the palestinian people , the urgent release of all hostage and an end to the siege of Gaza to allow vital supply of food , fuel , medicine and water to reach civilian population all the more urgent . the petition also recognise the resolution of the House on 13 October 2014 , call on the UK Government to recognise the state of Palestine , alongside the state of Israel . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to join with other in the international community in urgently press all party to agree to an immediate ceasefire , and to call on the UK Government to recognise the state of Palestine alongside the state of Israel . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Glasgow North , declare that the attack by Hamas on Israel on 7th October 2023 be act of terror , and unequivocally condemn the taking of hostage and the loss of innocent life in those attack ; far that the petitioner condemn the disproportionate response of the Israel Defence Forces , and affirm that there must be an end to the collective punishment of the palestinian people ; far declare for the urgent release of all hostage and an end to the siege of Gaza to allow vital supply of food , fuel , medicine and water to reach the civilian population ; far declare support for the call by the United Nations and many other international actor for an immediate ceasefire on all side of the conflict and support the global consensus in support of a two - state solution with a sovereign , prosperous palestinian state , live side by side with a safe and secure Israel ; and note the resolution of the House of Commons on 13th October 2014 call on the UK Government to recognise the state of Palestine alongside the state of Israel . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to join with other in the international community in urgently press all party to agree to an immediate ceasefire , and to call on the UK Government to recognise the state of Palestine alongside the state of Israel . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002908 ] Fossil Fuels : Lobbying Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) to avert climate breakdown , the vast majority of the fossil fuel industry ' s coal , gas and oil reserve need to stay firmly in the ground . yet successive government , lead by different political party , have fail to take the kind of action that the science demand . they have know the indisputable fact and the consequence of inaction . such consequence include the fact that the cost of delaying , and of fail to address climate , economic and social chaos , far outweigh those associate with an orderly transition along the line of a job - rich , inequality - bust green new deal . yet Government after Government have continue with business as usual . government after Government have refuse to grasp that despite some breakthrough , success and progress , the big picture have continue to get bad . I do not deny that we be now see record amount of energy be generate from renewable resource , for example , but these very welcome achievement do nothing to eliminate the dangerous damage arise from the continue extraction and burning of fossil fuel . give what the expert have be say for decade now , we have to ask ourselves why this Government , and other before they , have preside over , and collude in , the frankly criminal decision that have see yet more oil , gas and coal continue to be explore and exploit . the answer to that question can be trace back to one consistent factor : the role of the fossil fuel industry in our politic . for over those very same decade when climate scientist have be warn of the rapidly shrink window to avert a climate emergency , fossil fuel company and their lobbyist have be deny the science , and then they have delay , weaken and sabotage climate action . those tactic have enable they to make billion in profit , while heat the planet and destroy community . in this debate , I want to highlight some of the way in which fossil fuel influence be exert in our politic and to propose how it should urgently be curtail . I want to start with a case study , feature the little - know fossil fuel lobby group Offshore Energies UK — OEUK — whose member include North sea operator such as Equinor , Harbour Energy , BP and Shell , and whose activity have result in a windfall tax that actually reward company for dig up more oil and gas , and a " price floor " introduce entirely at the industry ' s behest . let I explain how that have happen . accord to analysis of datum in the public domain , OEUK and its member meet UK Government Ministers more than 210 time in the year follow Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine — that be nearly once every work day . in June 2022 , in that one month , when the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Bill be draft and consult on , the industry go into lobby overdrive : OEUK and its operator member have twice as many meeting with Ministers as they do in the month before or after . it also hold a parliamentary reception , in the name of the all - party group on the british offshore oil and gas industry , for which it provide , conveniently , the secretariat . the main message for the mps and peer in attendance be that the windfall tax would " undermine and disrupt " investment in the sector . in a meeting a few day later with the then Chancellor , now Prime Minister , the industry spell out what it want to see in the Bill . its recommendation , also put in writing to the Treasury , include protection for petroleum revenue tax repayment , which be , in essence , an exist tax break that can pay fossil fuel firm back for taxis they have pay in the past . the subsequent legislation do exactly as OEUK request . moreover , it introduce an enormous 80 % " investment allowance " , which , combine with exist tax break , mean that fossil fuel company can claim £ 91 back for every £ 100 they invest in UK oil and gas extraction . as a result of that climate - wreck loophole , Shell , for example , go on to pay no windfall tax at all in 2022 . the lobbying around the Bill be happen in the context of a wide lobbying campaign by OEUK , which have be urge the Treasury all year to reinstate regular meeting of the so - call " fiscal forum " , an advisory group that basically invite OEUK and its member to shape their own tax regime . on 9 December 2022 , they get their wish ; the fiscal forum meet again , host by the new Chancellor , the right hon . member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) , and the industry use the meeting to claim , yet again , that the windfall tax would harm investment in the sector . that meeting occur in the wake of the Chancellor ' s already have announce further change to the windfall tax regime that would , in effect , see taxpayer actually pay and hand over money to oil and gas firm for investment be make . none the less , those company want still more and they use the fiscal forum to demand that a price floor be introduce — and , surprise , surprise , they get it . in spring 2023 , OEUK board member of Harbour Energy and Equinor meet with Treasury official . the minute , secure via a freedom of information request , state that the " Equinor rep smile " at Government ' s reassurance — yes , I be sure they do . the hon . Lady be eloquently set out how the Government be respond to heavy lobbying from the fossil fuel industry . do she agree that no future generation — neither our child nor our grandchild — will ever thank we , the politician of today , for have put all our energy and focus into the energy of the past ? do she agree that the fossil fuel industry should really look at itself as well ? it will come as no surprise to the hon . member that I completely agree with she . I do wonder what our own kid will think when the planet continue to heat still far , and what their kid , in turn , will think . what be we think of ? what be the fossil fuel industry thinking of , certainly , beyond its profit ? apparently very little . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward this debate . she have be assiduous in her commitment to these issue . indeed , I would go as far as to say the hon . Lady have , on many occasion , be the conscience of this House on these issue . do she agree that it be essential that vote cast and action take in this place be influence by fact and reason opinion , and never by one individual or group ? while there be a place for lobbying — let we be honest : it be through lobby that we learn more ; I understand that — it should be only a part of the consideration of any issue . I thank the hon . member for both his comment , with which I agree , and his kind remark . he be right : of course , lobbying happen , but a line get cross when money start to change hand . there be perception — never mind what the reality be — of member and group potentially pursue interest that be to their own advantage , rather than for the public good . in June 2023 , after sustained further lobbying meeting , letter and statement in the press , the Government introduce the price floor that OEUK have so assiduously lobby for — surprise , surprise . to summarise : privileged access and meeting with Ministers , an opaque , official - look lobbying group and an oil and gas fiscal forum advise the Treasury collectively result in significant change to Government plan , which , in turn , result in a windfall tax that raise just half of what the Government have promise and save corporation billion . all , of course , at a time of record fossil fuel company profit and a cost of live crisis for consumer . that be what happen when we let fossil fuel into every corner of our politic . that be only the tip of the iceberg . last year , it be report that Gulf state push fossil fuel at COP28 have hire the now Lord Hammond and Lord Maude , along with former Prime Minister Tony Blair and other former lead politician as " consultant " . as we know , it be incredibly easy for senior british politician and civil servant to swap Government office for consultancy retainer ; they simply have to register with the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments — a body which even its chair , the former Conservative MP and now Lord Pickles , admit be toothless — if they take up any new pay or unpaid work within two year of leave office . for example , acoba ' s response to Lord Hammond work for Mohammed bin Salman ' s regime be to note that his inside knowledge of the UK Government could be " perceive to offer an unfair advantage " , and then it go ahead and approve it all the same . when , in 2021 , Lord Hammond ' s advisory work be deem by ACOBA to have breach the rule , the only sanction be a strongly word letter . I know and accept the convention not to criticise the conduct of individual mp or peer , so I simply want to set out fact that be already in the public domain and on the public record . it be not just former Ministers go through the revolve door between parliamentarian and the fossil fuel industry to take up lucrative consultancy role . second job , placement , internship and sabbatical be all different side of the same coin , and all too often a lot of coin be make or exchange . member of this House can benefit financially from the fossil fuel sector in other way , too , as the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) presumably do when she hold £ 70 , 000 worth of share in Shell for five year when she be Environment Secretary , as publish in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in August 2023 . I have do the courtesy of alert any Member to whom I be refer in this Chamber , by email they to let they know . the right hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Nadhim Zahawi ) also do in the shape of payment from oil company client to business advisory service Zahawi & Zahawi , piece together in research carry out by journalist Jonathan Watts and Pamela Duncan for the Guardian , from his shareholding in an oil and gas exploration and production company , and the £ 1 million worth of donation he receive from fossil fuel company , include a regular monthly payment of £ 30 , 000 that stop only when he become a Minister . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) — who be in this place and with whom I have have a conversation to inform he that I be about to reference some of his interest — have be a Member of this place since 1997 . he serve as the Energy Minister under the now Foreign Secretary , and hold down a second job for BB Energy , which trade more than 33 million metric tonne of oil every year . as a strategic adviser , he be pay £ 50 , 000 per year for the equivalent of around 11 day ' work , accord to his own Register of Members ' Financial Interests . three of the big donor to the conservative party be funder or board member of the climate science sceptic think - tank the Global Warming Policy Foundation , or its spin - off Net Zero Watch . company from Cardiff Airport to ExxonMobil be hand out football ticket and pass for hospitality event to mps across the political spectrum . in fact , I think I can safely say that there be probably only one UK - wide political party represent in Parliament that have not have some kind of handout from the fossil fuel industry , whether donation , expense - pay trip , salary or gift . at this point , I give credit to the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) for go public about the food hamper send to she by staff at Heathrow in the hope it would secure her support for their third runway . they obviously do not know she very well . financial benefit can not be divorce from conflict of interest or perceive conflict , it be worth note that there be no requirement on Members of this House to declare any income from dividend or any income gain from the sale of share . give the seemingly routine way in which share get move into blind trust when mp become Ministers , as use by the current Prime Minister and Chancellor , or the £ 70 , 000 threshold at which we be suppose to publicly declare a shareholding stake , the idea that we have transparency around conflict of interest be laughable . the evidence suggest that member of the other place be just as at risk of the perception , at least , that they be influence by dirty fossil fuel money . a total of 43 peer have a significant stake in the industry accord to 2021 datum . there , the declaration threshold be low at £ 50 , 000 . it be low again at the Senedd and Holyrood , but they be certainly not immune to fossil fuel influence . a low threshold would clearly be an improvement , but we need to do more than just tinker with the exist rule . in the vast majority of these instance , nobody be do anything that break the parliamentary rule . the Transparency of Lobbying , Non - Party Campaigning and Trade Union Administration Act 2014 only restrict about 5 % of lobbyist — mostly trade union represent worker , and charity . meanwhile , corporation can pretty much do what they like , and consistently they do . when we realise , as analysis by the Guardian clearly show , that there be a direct link between fossil fuel money and the position that mps take in Parliament , it be self - evident that the rule can not be fit for purpose . I believe that be an MP be about serve the public interest , not the interest of fossil fuel company . in case anyone want to suggest that they be work in the public interest , let I remind the House of the economic impact of continue to extract and burn fossil fuel : public debt could rise to 289 % of gdp by the end of the century if climate change be leave unchecked , accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility . the climate impact be well know : if we want to be in with even a 50 % chance of stay within the all - important 1 . 5 ° limit , we can not open new field , and we should be phase out exist fossil fuel infrastructure in way that will secure a just transition . that be not what these company be use their influence to make happen , and they be frighteningly effective . Climate Action Tracker cite the Government ' s double down on North sea oil and gas extraction as a key factor in the UK ' s insufficient rating on compatibility with the Paris agreement and 1 . 5 ° . these company ' dirty fingerprint can be see all over our politic , and it be time to clean thing up . what do that look like ? first , there would be a firewall between the industry and decision making — no lobbying meeting . if meeting be happen — for example , about the good way to secure the green transition — there must be full transparency , deliver in something approach real time , not month after the event . at present , the Government publish detail of some meeting every three month or so — often , it be every six month — but they be incomplete at well . I have to ask a series of formal parliamentary question to expose a lunch that the then Secretary of State for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy , the right hon . member for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) , have with saudi oil company Aramco . it be miss from his official declaration . first I be tell that that be because it be a " social " occasion , and then that there have be an administrative oversight . all that happen month after the event — an event that , frankly , should never have happen in the first place . it go without say that the behind - close - door cosy dinner , drink event and so forth have to be drag into the sunlight . there be no convenient line between social event and political business for Ministers or Ministers - in - waiting . if they have conversation about policy , either off or on the record , with someone from the oil and gas sector , or indeed another sector that stand to benefit , they should be require to make that public pretty much immediately . a proper firewall mean no industry representation on panel , Government research body , or expert or advisory body ; no fossil fuel involvement in climate negotiation ; no place on Government delegation to international negotiation or trade mission ; no staff exchange between the industry and Government Departments ; far great period between leave a ministerial role and Parliament , and consult for an oil and gas firm , for example , with a complete ban on any sit parliamentarian do that kind of work , pay or otherwise ; no implicit endorsement from politician as a result of their speak alongside industry representative , or at event with which the industry have any kind of association ; and certainly no fossil fuel company sponsorship of political party conference . last year , Chevron co - host an event at Conservative party conference with the tagline : " can fossil fuel company play a role in the energy transition ? " we know that the only role that they want to play be one of delay and obfuscation , so why should they be able to pay to get privileged access to Ministers and potential Ministers ? the hon . Lady will be surprised to learn that I agree with some of what she have say . it would certainly be wrong of such company to lobby Ministers on any interest that they have . she will know that my view on these matter long predate any such interest — and for the record , I never lobby any Minister on any matter connect with the interest that she have describe . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , and I understand , of course , why he would want to make it . I would simply say that there be concern around perceive influence as well as direct influence . I have no reason to doubt for a second what he have just say — I be sure that it be absolutely true — but at the same time , when people outside this place look at the fact that I have be lay out this evening , in a dispassionate way I hope , alarm bell will start to ring , at the very least . we be talk about an industry that have a massive impact on the future of our planet , and I think it right , give the access that it appear to have to people in high place , to have this debate and raise those question in this place . do the hon . Lady agree that , although we all roughly agree that we need to get to net zero , the big problem be the pace of change ? the fossil fuel industry have successfully lobby we all to say , " not so fast ! you can ' t do it so fast . Don ' t pull the rug from under our foot . " that be the big danger we face , because if we miss the target , there be no point talk about net zero . we have a 2050 target and we need to reach it urgently ; we can not delay any far , or go at a slow pace than necessary . I thank the hon . member for her intervention , which remind I of a powerful thing that the US campaigner Bill McKibben say : delaying be the new denial , and win slowly be the same as lose . there be a real imperative here to be fast . I congratulate the hon . Lady on secure this Adjournment debate , and on the strength of her argument . I echo the point make by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) about her contribution to this House over the year . it have be a pleasure to serve with she over the last decade and more . would the hon . Lady add to her list the need to reduce the overall cost of politic ? an article I read recently estimate that spending in the forthcoming general election will dwarf anything that have happen before . the expenditure on social medium alone will be great than for the last official campaign period . political party go look , as they be at the moment , for vast amount of money to spend on electioneering , but it come at a cost , because the funder who give they that money then want something in return . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention and his kind comment . it be always a great pleasure to work with he , and I agree entirely : when it come to spending on election , we seem to have an arm race that be out of control , which of course drive the obsession with get more money to line the war chest that enable party to fight those election . a cap on that funding be urgently require , which bring I to the next point I want to make . to take the point that my hon . friend the Member for Carmarthen East and Dinefwr ( Jonathan Edwards ) make about election a bit far , do the hon . Lady have any confidence that thing might change follow the next election , give that the Labour party have say that it will stand by any licence grant between now and then ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . it be incredibly disappointing that Labour have , in a sense , not follow its own logic ; it be happy to say that it will not accept any new licence , but if Labour be to make the clear statement right now that once it get into power — if it do — it would revoke those licence , that could have a chilling effect on all the licence that be go ahead . they be go ahead at a huge rate , and the Government want to see they go ahead even fast . when an official opposition have it in its power to stop that process and choose not to , " disappointing " be too polite a term , frankly . I be come to the issue of dirty money in politic . I want to see an end to it , because it come with string attach that be tie up in knot our chance of a liveable future . there can be no conceivable justification for allow the fossil fuel lobby to directly or indirectly buy favour from politician , so there should be no donating to mps or to political party , and no donation in kind , whether that be to all - party group or via football ticket , event sponsorship or trip overseas . at the same time , the rule on conflict of interest need redesign to shut out vested fossil fuel interest , not simply have they declare on the record . it be time to close the revolving door . no side job or cosy secondment ; no blind trust , put thing in the name of one ' s spouse , or rake in money from share or second job ; and of course , much tough sanction for breach of the rule — include suspension , for example . thirdly and lastly , the preferential treatment mete out to the fossil fuel industry must come to an end — most immediately , the handing over of public subsidy and other incentive for fossil fuel must end . most notably , that come in the form of favourable tax regime , which in the past have result in oil company pay less than $ 2 in tax per barrel of oil pump from the North sea , compare with the $ 15 per barrel that company pay if they be operate in Norway . the hon . Lady be make some excellent point . do she agree that it be quite frustrating to look at the regime in Norway , which collect more tax , mean that the people of Norway have a fund for the future , while we will not have anything at all by way of legacy benefit from the oil and gas industry — only an unliveable planet , if thing continue as they be ? I thank the hon . Lady very much for her eloquent intervention . she be exactly right . she underline the point that stop these vast subsidy for the fossil fuel industry be not only the moral thing to do , or in the interest of the climate ; it be in the economic interest of the future of this country . the wealth fund in Norway be a very good model that we could , and should , have follow . what I have describe be one of the countless way in which our politic be side with and enable the fossil fuel sector , as well as the bank , lawyer , lobbyist , consultancy , think - tank and many other that feed off it . those company should have no place in our politic ; if they do , it be undemocratic , and deeply dangerous for climate action , give that their priority be put forward policy that actively and significantly undermine the UK ' s climate commitment . instead , we should seek to change politic into a force that side with the economic writing on the wall , and the only chance we have of a liveable future : a transition to a climate - safe future with the public we be elect to serve . I will bring my remark to an end with three question for the Minister . first , can he tell I who in Government have overall responsibility for monitor the influence that fossil fuel company have as a result of their political lobbying ? secondly , can he confirm whether the Government be satisfied that the check and balance in place be sufficient to ensure that parliamentarian be not influence by fossil fuel lobbying ? thirdly , do he agree that this go to the very heart of how Government and Parliament be run , and therefore warrant the establishment of , for example , a new dedicated Select Committee to properly and regularly scrutinise the influence of the fossil fuel industry , and indeed other corporate influence on political decision making , as well as to make recommendation for change ? we be talk about not just the impact on climate but the standing of Parliament in this country . I think many people look at this place and draw conclusion that be not particularly favourable ; it look as if we be out for ourselves . we need to clean up politic , both because it be the right thing to do and because it might be just one step towards begin to rebuild our reputation with the british public . I congratulate the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) on gain this Adjournment debate , and echo in part what the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say : although we do not agree on everything , we appreciate that she be to some extent the conscience of the House on these matter , and be always there to encourage Government and everyone else to go far . I be pleased to be able to respond to some of the point that the hon . Lady raise . she make the case that the interaction between representative of fossil fuel company , political figure and those in public life should be transparent . the Government believe that lobbying be a legitimate part of political development in all area , as long as it be conduct transparently and ethically to maintain the high standard in public life . the Government outline wide - range improvement to transparency around lobby in their " strengthen Ethics and Integrity in Central Government " policy statement of July 2023 . these include revise guidance to widen the range of lobbying engagement declare by Departments , and link reform to the consultant lobbying framework . these measure , when implement , will ensure that all lobbying activity , irrespective of which sector be be represent , will be conduct openly and in accordance with the principle expect of participant in public life . in the UK , a number of system ensure that lobbying activity be conduct honestly and transparently . take together , these system , which set the rule for the consultant lobbying industry , Ministers and Government Departments , Members of Parliament and political party , ensure that it be clear whose interest be be represent in public life . the register of consultant lobbyist , create by the lobby Act — the Transparency of Lobbying , non - Party Campaigning and Trade Union Administration Act 2014 — have significantly increase transparency around the work of consultant lobbyist since its creation in 2015 . the register make it clear whose interest be be represent by consultant lobbyist , and provide accessible online information about those undertaking consultant lobbying and their client , as well as detail of investigation into allege breach of the Act . the Act also establish an independent registrar of consultant lobbyist , who have power to monitor and enforce compliance and administer the register of consultant lobbyist . the register of consultant lobbyist complement exist transparency mechanism , include the quarterly publication of ministerial meeting with external organisation , business appointment rule and industry - lead regulation , such as subscription to industry code of conduct . from January 2024 onwards , meeting hold between Ministers and consultant lobbyist will be declare through routine quarterly transparency . this will also apply to those senior official who be subject to meeting declaration . new transparency guidance be publish on gov . uk in December 2023 , detail strict minimum standard for meet description , to ensure that declaration contain relevant , constructive information . as I say , new guidance expand the scope of transparency declaration for senior official to include meeting hold between external organisation and individual , and director general , finance and commercial director , and senior responsible owner in the Government ' s major project portfolio . the code of conduct for member of Parliament set out the standard of behaviour expect of Ministers , and the rule on the registration and declaration of interest . the code provide that member must fulfil conscientiously the requirement of the House in respect of the registration of interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and must always be open and frank in declare any relevant interest in any proceeding in the House or its Committees . it be for the Standards Committee , not the Government , to consider any change to the approach to the registration of interest . the Minister be obviously go through the exist architecture that be suppose to guard against undue influence from lobbyist , corporation and so on . I wonder whether he would agree with his presumably former colleague , now Lord Pickles , who admit that the office of the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments be toothless , and that work do need to be do on that . if when a Member breach the rule they simply get a letter tell they , " you should not do that again , " that will hardly be a sanction that anyone will be particularly worried about . obviously , the Government take seriously anything that Lord Pickles say , and I certainly do . he be my predecessor in Brentwood and Ongar , and I hold he in high regard . there be a process by which such comment be consider , and we will continue to go through it . I hope the hon . Lady will appreciate that a chunk of the framework that I have just set out be new , and it be important that we give it a chance to work . what govern a lot of our thinking — perhaps where we diverge from she — be the fact that we can not envisage a situation in which it would be wise to shut energy company out of the discussion . we consider they to be fundamental to the transition to net zero . we also believe that some may have a role when we get to net zero and that it be clear that some fossil fuel will be necessary even when we reach that destination . consequentially , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and her minister regularly meet a wide range of stakeholder to discuss issue relate to energy security and net zero . of course , that include meet oil and gas company and representative organisation , as well as environmental organisation and charity . for a sector that support around 200 , 000 job and be at the forefront of the drive to net zero and the energy transition , where the workforce be transferable to green job of the future , that be a responsible position to take . the Prime Minister have reiterate that net zero be a priority for this Government , and we remain absolutely committed to meet our legally bind net zero target . More than ever , we be determined to adopt a fair and pragmatic approach to net zero that minimise the burden on work people . no other country have match our record on decarbonisation . unlike most other country , the UK ' s climate commitment be set in law . the UK be a net importer of oil and gas and a fast - decline producer , hence new oil and gas project simply reduce the fall in the UK supply ; they do not increase it on current level . the new Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill will not undermine those commitment . the Minister be be generous with his time . he will know that just today the Climate Change Committee issue an interim report say that the Government be off target when it come to their commitment and the threshold they be mean to meet . he will also know that the same committee have be pretty critical of , for example , the new Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill . he can not simply rest on his laurel and say that we have a good reputation in the past and therefore thing be go to go well now — we be off track right now . secondly , the Minister talk about consultant lobbyist , but they be a tiny proportion of who be do this work . for example , the Foreign Secretary be not register as a consultant lobbyist when he work for Greensill . the consultant lobbying issue be , frankly , a complete red herring here . we need to look beyond that at who be speak to whom and with what effect . alas , I have no laurel on which to rest ; I be merely a junior Minister . obviously , the Government be keen that we have a fit - for - purpose regime that ensure that lobbying be transparent . that be why we have introduce a number of the change that I have already outline . on the report publish today by the committee , the hon . Lady will have to forgive I because I have not yet have time to consult it , but we always take the committee ' s finding seriously . she will also be aware that it have previously say that , even when we get to net zero , we will still require some fossil fuel for certain purpose . I think the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) have get a point about ACOBA , and so do Lord Pickles . happily , I have never breach ACOBA ' s rule or any parliamentary rule , as she know , but if anyone do so , surely there ought to be some measure that ACOBA could take ? my hon . friend the Minister have be through the process , as those of we who have be Ministers all have , and he will know that my own , long - establish view on these subject be unaltered , unaffected and uninfluence by anything I do outside this place . but none the less , the point remain . it be hard to imagine my right hon . friend break any rule , I have to say . I know the authority will have note what he say on ACOBA . the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion have clearly articulate her view on how the UK should aim to reach the goal of net zero . that we might differ on that do not detract from the core principle that a range of energy stakeholder all have a role . the Government ' s firm belief be that lobbying activity have an important and legitimate role to play in the policy development process , so long as interaction between lobbyist and political actor be properly declare . we support the exist rule , which apply to the lobbying industry , Government and Parliament — both to individual member and to informal group and all - party parliamentary group — and we shall continue to drive forward reform to improve transparency . the hon . Lady might disagree , but in a democratic society , public policy be well inform by engagement and political debate . elect representative have to meet a wide range of people , not just people they agree with ; that be democratic engagement . such debate should be support by an independent free press , and then , at the ballot box , we should trust the people . question put and agree to . House adjourn .