prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill Second read before I begin proceeding , I would like to say a few word to help manage expectation about business today . More than 160 member have indicate that they wish to speak in the first debate . it be not customary to impose a speech limit on private member ' Bills , but I hope that after the Member in charge of the Bill and the speaker after that , member will restrict themselves to about eight minute in the first instance ; that include take intervention . the Chair will review the guidance as the debate progress . I may need to ask for short speech to enable more member to contribute . I should make it clear that the Chair retain the right to impose a formal speech limit , but I would rather colleague help each other . at about 2 pm , I will call Front Benchers to make their comment , and then we will move to end the debate . I have get to manage expectation . not everyone will get in . I will try to get in as many people as possible . this be one of the most important debate that the House have have , so it be about be considerate and respectful of each other . let we listen to each other . this be the time for the House to show itself at its good . the reason amendment in the name of Dr Ben Spencer have not be select . I call Kim Leadbeater to move the second Reading . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . thank you , Mr Speaker , and thank you to everyone who be attend this hugely significant debate . it be a privilege to open the debate on the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , a piece of legislation that would give die people , under stringent criterion , choice , autonomy and dignity at the end of their life . I welcome the debate on this hugely important issue . let I say to colleague across the House , particularly new colleague , that I know this be not easy — it certainly have not be easy for I — but if any of we want an easy life , I be afraid we be in the wrong place . it be our job to address complex issue and make difficult decision . I know that for many people this be a very difficult decision , but our job be also to address the issue that matter to people . after nearly a decade since the subject be debate on the Floor of the House , many would say that the debate be long overdue . for my part , I have try incredibly hard to ensure that the tone of the debate have be — and continue to be — robust , of course , but most importantly respectful and compassionate . I be pleased that , for the most part , that have be the case . I can be confident that that same tone of respect and compassion will be adopt by colleague today , whatever view they hold . that be particularly important as we have people in the Public Gallery who have a strong personal interest in this issue . they hold a range of view . some of they have lose love one in difficult and traumatic circumstance , and other be themselves terminally ill . I want to pay a huge and heartfelt tribute to those family and to every single person who have contact I about this issue , and in many case share their own very personal story of loss and death . I know from my own personal experience of grief that tell your story over and over again take energy , courage and strength . I be incredibly grateful to they all . it be their voice and their story that have inspire I . such story be difficult to hear , but it be vital that they be hear as they be at the heart of the debate . they show that the law be fail people . where that be the case , we have a duty to do what be right to fix it . those here today or watch at home be deal with the real consequence of the failing of the current system . I will start by recount just a few of their story . Warwick be married to his wife Ann for nearly 40 year . she have terminal peritoneal cancer , which mean that she could not breathe properly . she spend four day gasp and choke , remain awake throughout despite be give the maximum dose of sedative . she eventually die of suffocation . she have beg Warwick to end her life , but as he stand over she with a pillow he could not do what she ask as he do not want that to be her final memory of he . Ann have excellent palliative care , but it simply could not ease her suffering . Tim fall in love at first sight when he meet his wife Louise — he propose after just three day . but Louise get cancer , twice , and at the end , the morphine simply could not control her pain . in desperation , she manage to smash a small glass bottle and try to take her own life , not realise that her toddler daughter have get into bed with she . Tim find she . he say , " you get to a point where you stop pray for a miracle and start pray for mercy . " former police officer James wave be mum off as she embark on her final trip , to Dignitas . she have terminal vasculitis . James desperately want to accompany his mum and hold her hand during her final moment , but he know , because of his job as a police officer , that it be just not possible . indeed , she insist that he must not go with she , so she go alone — no one to hold her hand , and no proper goodbye or funeral . those be just a few example of the heartbreaking reality and human suffering that far too many people experience as a result of the status quo . the public know this . I have always be keen to ensure that my politic stay rooted in the world beyond Westminster . it be clear that public opinion be very much in favour of a change in the law . polling show consistently that around 75 % of people would like to see the legalisation of assist die for terminally ill , mentally competent adult . these finding be significant , but it may not be that surprising that most people believe , as I do , that we should all have the right to make the choice and decision we want about our own body . let we be clear : we be not talk about a choice between life or death ; we be talk about give die people a choice of how to die . let we examine what that choice currently look like . I do not have a legal background but I have always be drive by a strong sense of injustice . if I see a problem , I will do everything I can to try to solve it . indeed , in this job , we all do that every week and every day , whether here in Parliament or in our constituency . when four former director of public prosecution , include the Prime Minister , two former president of the Supreme Court and many lawyer all agree that the law need to change , surely we have a duty to do something about it . intentionally help another person to end their life be currently illegal under the Suicide Act 1961 , and carry a maximum prison sentence of 14 year . this include family and friend help someone who be terminally ill to die , both in the UK and overseas . exist guidance do not stop people from be investigate by the police , add fear , guilt and further trauma to grieve family . the law be not clear , and it do not protect individual , family or medical professional . that drive people to very desperate measure . what about coercion ? senior King ' s Counsel have say : " there be currently no establish system for identify abuse or coercion in advance of a person ' s death or for help vulnerable people to make end of life decision . " I have be a nurse for more than a quarter of a century , and in that time I have work mostly in intensive care as a specialist . I have work with compassionate and skilled , well - train clinician who have be teach to spot coercion — it be fundamental to our practice . do my hon . friend agree that it be wrong to suggest that clinician can not spot coercion in these case ? my hon . friend make a very important point . I thank he for it , and for his year of service as a nurse . I have speak to many medical professional about this issue , and they say that this be part of their job . they be very skilled and they work closely with patient , particularly die patient , to assess their need and to have those difficult and delicate conversation . as the kc say , at the moment we check for coercion in case where people have take their own life — when someone be dead . the Bill would make coercion a criminal offence with a sentence of up to 14 year . surely , by put a legal framework around this difficult situation , we will provide an extra level of safeguarding . one psychotherapist , who be terminally ill herself , say to I recently that coercion happen when thing be hide away . the Bill would bring thing out into the open . surely , that must be safe for everyone . let we look at what the absence of a robust legal framework look like . I thank the hon . Lady for give the House the time to debate the Bill this morning . she reference coercion , and I understand her point about the two medic , but medic will not be able to see or hear everything at all time . People will not be put beyond challenge , because subsequent to the death , if a relative claim coercion of another relative , investigation will remain . I be entirely unclear how , without peradventure , two clinician can claim that there have be no coercion at any point . the hon . Gentleman have make the point for I : within a robust system , we will check for coercion , but we do not have any of that now . at the moment , the person will be definitely be dead . we have to look at the status quo . put in layer of safeguard and check for coercion must be well than the system that we have now . colleague be right to raise question around coercion . I host a phone - in on LBC where people ring in and say , " I feel like I have to end my life because I recognise how difficult it be for my family to see I suffer . " the limit in the Bill , however , be that someone must have only six month to live accord to two doctor and a judge , which I genuinely believe massively reduce the risk of coercion . be we really say that people be so desperate to bump off their family that if they be tell that they have six month to live , they would escalate the process and do it soon ? the hon . Lady make an excellent point — she be absolutely right . the very strict criterion in the Bill add extra layer of safeguarding , which , again , we just do not have at the moment . I have the deep respect for my hon . friend , but one thing that concern I be societal or systemic coercion . at the moment , elderly people in our society pay thousand of pound a month to be in a care home . what reassurance can my hon . friend give that an elderly person in a care home who have be give six month to live would not think to themselves , " I ' m a burden . I have be give six month to live . if I end my life now , I can save my family between £ 25 , 000 and £ 55 , 000 " ? that really concern I . as I have say , at the moment , we have no idea whether that person would take action because we be not have those conversation . by get two medical professional and a High Court judge involve , we would be put this out in the open . evidence from other jurisdiction show clearly that coercion tend to happen the other way ; what tend to happen be that family try to prevent the person from make the choice of an assist death . rise — I will take one more intervention . be it not the case that the conversation that patient will have with doctor will bring out whether they have be coerce or be suffer intolerably ? the criterion be about suffer , not whether somebody worry that they be a burden . I agree absolutely . those conversation , which be not take place at the moment , be very important . I will make some progress . there have rightly be a lot of discussion about palliative care in recent week , and I be convinced that a significant amount of that discussion would not have take place without the introduction of the Bill . it be a long overdue conversation , and I be very pleased to see it happen . I have meet with the Association for Palliative Medicine , Hospice UK , Sue Ryder and Marie Curie , and last week I be delighted to attend the inaugural meeting of the all - party parliamentary group for hospice . I also attend the fantastic Kirkwood hospice , which serve my constituency of Spen Valley . I pay tribute to the dedicated staff and volunteer across the country in the palliative care sector , who do some of the most vital work in society . we must do more to support they , and I look forward to work with the Government and colleague across the House in that important endeavour . that be why I have include in the Bill a requirement for the Secretary of State to report to the House on the availability , quality and distribution of palliative care . of course , assist dying be not a substitute for palliative care — it be not an either / or . we have some of the good palliative care in the world in this country , and , when it can meet the need of terminally ill people , it be second to none . however , when it can not , surely the choice of an assist death should be one component of a holistic approach to end of life care . the comprehensive report by the Health and Social Care Committee , publish early this year , find no indication of palliative care deteriorate in quality or provision in place where assist dying have be introduce . ever mindful of what the hon . Lady have say about the criterion , I remind she that Belgium start off with a simple project like the one she refer to but it deteriorate and expand to include sufferer of dementia and under - 18 — child . what guarantee do we have that this legislation will not end up with a situation like that in Belgium , in which case anything go ? be that what the hon . Lady want ? I do not want that . do she ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , but let we be very , very clear . huge amount of research have be do by the Health and Social Care Committee , and indeed by myself and other . the model be propose here be nothing like what happen in Belgium . it be nothing like what happen in Canada . there be strict , stringent criterion , and if the House choose to pass the Bill , those criterion can not be change . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way and congratulate she on the measured way in which she have conduct this debate over the last few week . whatever side of the House and whatever side of the debate , I would like to recognise that — it be not always the case . but be it not the case that the Bill cross a new and irreversible medical red line for doctor and nurse ? be it not the case that in other Bills we have see in this House over the year , the safeguard invariably become obsolete over time , and so the safeguard in this Bill , however well mean , should be see as temporary safeguard and not immutable safeguard ? absolutely not . I respectfully disagree with the right hon . Gentleman . in country where a Bill of this nature have be implement , the safeguard have be in place and the boundary have never change . I will come on to talk about that . rise — I will take one more intervention and then I must make some progress . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . I have a great deal of sympathy for the argument she be make . however , we have see , time and again , excessive judicial activism take the word in this House and expand their meaning into place we have not foresee . what reassurance can she give that the word in her Bill will be respect by the judiciary and that we will not find ourselves in a decade ' s time in a totally different place that this House do not intend ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . the court have repeatedly put this issue back to Parliament . this be not their domain . this be the legislation . there be strict criterion . come back to palliative care , in situation where pain simply can not be manage , the result be death that be so horrific that the person themselves can spend hour , and in some case day , in unimaginable pain as they die . I want to bring the debate back to the issue that we be try to solve . for their love one , no matter how many joyful and happy memory they have , they also have the trauma that come from watch someone you love die in unbearable agony and fear . that memory stay with they forever . rebecca ' s mum Fiona develop metastatic brain cancer at the age of 69 . she have very good palliative care , but her pain could not be manage , and she die beg and scream for assistance to end her suffering . her family and the medical team treat she cry beside her bedside as it take she 10 day to die . Lucy ' s husband Tom be 47 , a music teacher with a young son . he have bile duct cancer which obstruct his bowel , result in an agonising death . Tom vomit faecal matter for five hour before he ultimately inhale the faece and die . he be vomit so violently that he could not be sedate and be conscious throughout . Lucy plead with the doctor to help . the doctor treat he say there be nothing he could do . his family say that the look of horror on his face as he die will never leave they . Lucy now have post - traumatic stress disorder , which be quite common for family who lose love one in such harrowing circumstance . I thank my hon . friend for the powerful and move story she be tell . a constituent of mine watch her mum suffer from pancreatic cancer . unable to keep any food down , she basically starve to death . do my hon . friend agree that that be no way to see a love one die ? do she also agree that we do not come into this place to shy away from difficult choice , but to listen to our constituent and make well law for everyone ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , and I be so sorry to hear that story from her constituency . we all have story from all our constituency , and she be absolutely right that we be here to make difficult decision . on her example there , I have be astonish by the number of people who have be in touch with I to tell I about the terminally ill love one who have starve themselves to death out of desperation — something that take far long than we may imagine and be just horrific for everyone involve . that be currently legal , and doctor be require to assist the patient through this agonising process . how can we allow that , but not a compassionate and humane assist death ? I join the right hon . member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) in commend my hon . friend for the way she have make sure that this binary debate have not be a polarising one . I start the debate where she be now , but I have move to oppose the Bill by the story I have hear of disabled people who have have " do not resuscitate " put on their medical record without their permission , or who have be stop by stranger in the street and be tell , " you would be well off dead . " I know she will say that we be vote on the specific of her Bill , but we be also vote on a principle . do she agree that there should be a precautionary approach , and do she honestly believe the legislative process give we the time to be sure that we be make the right decision ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and I will come on to some of those point later in my speech . let we be very clear : the title of the Bill refer to terminally ill adult , not disabled people or elderly people , as another hon . Member refer to . the criterion be very clear . I come back to the status quo , which be the problem we be try to address . if people want to avoid the trauma of some of the harrowing circumstance I have describe , they can have an assisted death — just not in this country . if they have £ 10 , 000 or £ 15 , 000 , they can make the trip to Switzerland or elsewhere but , because of the current legal position , it be often a deeply distressing and very lonely experience , shroud in secrecy , with people feel like criminal as the fear of prosecution hang over they . Ilana ' s husband Crispin have late - stage motor neurone disease . he be paralyse , and Ilana be a wheelchair user , but at his request she take he on a traumatic and difficult journey to Switzerland . she describe the intense stress and anxiety she feel due to the total secrecy of their plan — and we can only imagine what the journey home be like , on her own , with an empty seat beside she . there be also those terminally ill people who take matter into their own hand . Gareth ' s father Norman serve in the Welsh Guards . he be a strong man , but his final five year be full of pain and discomfort . he have prostate cancer , which he live with for 15 year . he be give good initial hormone therapy and chemo , but the cancer spread everywhere and the pain could not be ease . one day , when it all become too much , he go into his garden with the gun he own and shoot himself . Gareth ' s sister rush to his house and find he . Gareth say his father just want the pain to stop . then there be Peter , from Mirfield in my own constituency , who stop I in a car park a couple of week ago to tell I the harrowing story of his beloved wife , who be diagnose with metastatic cancer age 52 . the treatment be ineffective and her symptom be unbearable . she take an overdose of her medication , and Peter find she and take she to hospital . she recover and he bring she home , but the follow day she make another attempt to take her own life , in a way that be too awful to describe . Peter find she dead , and he spend the next eight hour be question by the police . it be estimate that more than 600 terminally ill people take their own life every year . often patient will store up medication . Josh , a 33 - year - old from Huddersfield go to coach his local kid ' rugby team one Saturday and come back to tell his mum all about it . he find she dead . Lisa , who be terminally ill , have store up her medication and take her own life . our former colleague Paul Blomfield , the previous MP for Sheffield Central , have campaign tirelessly on this issue since his dad Harry take his own life in 2014 , alone in his garage , after be diagnose with inoperable lung cancer . language matter : Harry be not suicidal ; he love life , but he have watch too many of his friend have linger , degrade death and he do not want that for himself . but , like the other , he could not tell Paul and his family of his plan , as they would have be complicit and could have face prosecution . how many precious day and week do Harry miss out on as a result of have to take action while he be still physically able to do so ? hear these story be not easy , but it be important . what I have be strike by in recent week as I have listen to member from across the House be the clear agreement that the current situation be neither sustainable nor dignified . almost everyone in this House agree that the status quo be unacceptable in term of dignity , palliative care and end of life . give that , do my hon . friend agree that today ' s debate be about how we depart from the unacceptable situation that we currently face ? be today ' s vote not the first stage of an important discussion about we improve the end of life for hundred and hundred of people across this country ? I wholeheartedly agree . I be set out what we be deal with now . this can not be right , and surely we have a duty to do something about it . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be go to make some progress , if that be okay . some of the most important voice in this debate be , of course , those of people currently live with a terminal illness . have a terminal diagnosis be perhaps one of those situation where it be very hard , if not impossible , to know how we would feel . I have meet many terminally ill people over recent week and every one of they be in my thought today . Sophie , who be here today , be diagnose with stage 4 secondary breast cancer , which have spread to her lung , liver and pelvis . she be allergic to opioid , so she know that her pain be very unlikely to be able to be manage . she have a 17 - year - old daughter . all she ask be to have the choice to say goodbye to her daughter at a time of her choosing , in circumstance that she can have some control over , and for her daughter to be able to remember she as the vibrant , positive woman she be . Nathaniel , who also join we today , have stage 4 incurable bowel cancer , which be now in his liver and brain . like many of we , Nat say that he do not know whether he would choose an assisted death or not , but he simply can not understand why anyone would want to deny he the choice . he say : " I wish to live as fully as I can and for as long as possible . but when the time come " , Nat also want " the right to die with dignity and compassion " . another very emotional lady come up to I at a recent interfaith event . she and her husband thank I for put the Bill forward . she say , " Kim , I be a proud Christian and I be guide by my faith . but I also have terminal cancer and I want the right to choose a compassionate death . " there have be much discussion about the view of people who hold religious belief . I fully respect those belief and do not intend to say much more about this , other than that I know there be a range of view within faith community . indeed , some of the most powerful conversation that I have have have be with people of faith , include in my own constituency . People of different religion have say that although they would not choose an assisted death for themselves or their family , who be they to stop someone else who may want to make that choice ? will my hon . friend give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . I hope that I have set out the problem that clearly exist . now allow I to set out how the Bill can address that problem and , most importantly , do so safely and effectively . if the Bill be to become law , it would contain the most robust and strong set of safeguard and protection in the world . very strict eligibility criterion and multiple layer of check and safeguard be embed in the Bill , none of which , as we have see , exist at the moment . I make a conscious decision to name it the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , rather than anything else . that title can never be change and ensure that only adult who be die would ever come within its scope . as such , the Bill be not about people choose between life and death ; it be about give die people with six month or less to live autonomy about how they die and the choice to shorten their death . the Bill do not apply to people with mental health condition . it do not apply to the elderly . it do not apply to people with chronic health condition , and it do not apply to disabled people , unless , of course , they have a terminal illness , in which case they would and should be entitle to the same right as anyone else . one group of people who be not often talk about be the learning disable . clause 9 ( 3 ) ( b ) say that if an assess doctor have any doubt as to the capacity of the person , they may refer they for a further psychiatric assessment . if the Bill be vote through today , will the hon . member engage in a debate about whether that language should be strengthen from " may " to " must " and whether the training and experience require of the assessor should be strengthen as well ? the hon . Lady make an excellent point and highlight a community who we must consider in light of the Bill . I would absolutely be open to that conversation in Committee ; it be a very valid point . there be different view within the disabled community . as Professor of Disability Research , Sir Tom Shakespeare say that it be unacceptable that people with disability continue to face social stigma and inequality , but that it would be a mistake to conclude that we should oppose legalise assist die for terminally ill people until those wide problem be fix . he say that it be paternalistic and wrong to imply that inequality will be resolve by reduce choice , and that a clear , transparent legal framework for end - of - life choice be well for everyone . he be right . there be , of course , still work to do in the fight for equality for people with disability , but once again it be not an either / or . I will campaign alongside many other in this place for those right , but I will also campaign for the right of terminally ill people , because their right be as important as anybody else ' s right . I have huge respect for the hon . Lady for the way that she have conduct this debate over the last few week . my concern be that she have focus today on the individual and the individual choice , but we be here to legislate for society as a whole . in legislate , what we be say if we pass the Bill be that it be okay to take that choice — [ interruption ] — and there will be some people who have six month of their life to go who will then feel , " ought I to do this ? be this something that I now should do ? " that bring into play a whole set of consideration — " be it well for my family ? be it financially well for my family ? " — in way that , at the moment , be out of scope . rather than simply focus on the individual suffering , which we all recognise be acute , we must broaden the debate to the impact that the legislation will have on society as a whole . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I suggest that the Bill will give society a much well approach towards end of life . we be already hear conversation about die and death which I do not think we have hear enough in this country . we have to take a holistic view . indeed , that be what happen in other country and other jurisdiction . have those deep and meaningful conversation about death and dying be really important . my hon . friend ' s comment bring I on nicely to the protection and safeguard in the Bill . a decade ago , I vote against a similar Bill , because I feel that perhaps it be not perfect and there be more thing that I need to know . my hon . friend be right that we have not talk about death for the 10 year since or consider any legislation . the truth be that if we vote against her Bill today , it will be the end of the conversation once again for another decade . my hon . friend be absolutely right . how many people will go through the situation I have describe if it be another 10 year before we address this matter ? rise — I be not go to take any more intervention , I be afraid , because I be conscious that lot of hon . member want to speak ; I know Mr Speaker be conscious of that as well . under the Bill , any terminally ill person who want to be consider for an assist death would have to undertake a thorough and robust process involve two doctor and a High Court judge . no other jurisdiction in the world have those layer of safeguarding . the person request assistance must have mental capacity and a settle wish at every stage . that mean they must repeatedly demonstrate that they understand the information relevant to their decision , the ability to retain that information , and to use or weigh that information as part of the process of make the decision . we know that capacity can fluctuate which be why it be assess at every step of the process . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I be sorry but I be not go to take any intervention , as I need to make progress . the court must speak to one of the doctor and can hear from anybody else they deem necessary . if there be any evidence of coercion , the court will not approve the request , and if evidence emerge subsequently , the court order could be revoke . it be also important to note that the person can change their mind at any time , with period of reflection build in . have consult at the high level in the judiciary and the medical profession , I know that they can and will fulfil those safeguard responsibility and that they have the expertise to do so . [ Official Report , 29 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 1079 . ] ( Correction ) let we be clear : as my hon . friend the Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) say early , this be not brand new territory for doctor . doctor , work in partnership with other clinician , be already require to manage complexity in end - of - life decision making . I follow the request of the British Medical Association that doctor should be under no obligation whatsoever to participate , but if they do participate , they will receive appropriate training and support . doctor should be able to use their professional judgment when and if a conversation take place , take their cue from the patient , as they do for many other issue . I welcome that patient - centre approach . many doctor feel the change in the law would safeguard clinician and patient by make everything explicit . when it come to the detail of what assist dying would look like , we have the benefit of draw on the experience of 31 jurisdiction around the world . I could talk extensively about the international experience of assist dying . the Health and Social Care Committee report do a brilliant job of that , and this Bill have look at good practice as well as model which I and many other would not be comfortable with our have here in England and Wales . reflect on their experience , clinician in Australia say : " through deep and meaningful conversation between doctor , patient and their loved one we can dispel fear , reduce suffering , bring death and die out of the shadow , and so allow patient and their family a well quality of life and quality of death " . as one australian Member of Parliament say : " we have bring ' behind - close - door ' practice into the open and give die people meaningful , transparent choice . crucially none of the fear that be put forward as reason not to change the law have be realise . the status quo be break and assist die work . " evidence from around the world show that the option of have an assist death actually lift the fear that terminally ill people have , and that many never actually use it but be able to make the good of the time they have leave due to the comfort and reassurance that it provide . People talk about a slippery slope , but the Health and Social Care Committee find that not one jurisdiction that have pass law on the basis of terminal illness have expand its scope . [ interruption . ] that be absolutely true . as the court here and in Europe have repeatedly make clear , Parliament be sovereign . this Bill could not be make any broad through any judicial process . speak of process , with reference to the Bill , have listen to what I know be genuine concern of Members about ensure that we get this legislation right , I commit to the House that if the Bill pass Second Reading today , which I sincerely hope it do , I be minded to move a motion that give the Bill Committee the power to take oral and write evidence in order to ensure that a thorough approach continue to be take . that be not normal procedure for a private Member ' s Bill , but I think that that be the right thing to do . I also reassure colleague that the Bill Committee will meet over a number of week , mean that there be ample time for full consideration of the detail of the Bill , include amendment . the Committee will be representative of the view and make - up of the House . let I be clear : that will mean there will be representative of different party with a range of view on the Committee . as the Leader of the House say at the Dispatch Box just yesterday , and have say several time , the Government will , of course , work with I to ensure that the Bill be workable and operable . that will quite rightly take time , and I have include in the Bill a commencement period of up to two year — this be not go to happen overnight . that timeframe can be explore in Committee , as it be more important to get this right than to do it quickly . in conclusion , for the reason I have set out , I be very clear that the law need to change to give terminally ill people choice at the end of life and to protect their love one from fear of prosecution . there will be some of we here today who be lucky enough not to have personal experience of this issue , but sadly we know that any one of we could end up in this heartbreaking situation . we be all live long , which be brilliant , and I have campaign inside and outside Parliament for a great focus on prevention and early intervention of illness and disease to keep we fit and healthy for as long as possible , but any one of we or our loved one could be unfortunate or unlucky enough to receive a terminal diagnosis . I struggle to see how it be fair or just to deny anyone the autonomy , dignity and personal choice of take control of their final week . and the right to choose do not take away the right not to choose . give the choice of an assist death to those who want it would of course not stop anyone who be terminally ill from choose not to make that choice . whatever happen today , I be incredibly proud of the work that my fantastic team and the many campaigner have do on this hugely significant , emotional and sensitive subject . we need to be clear : a vote to take this Bill forward today be not a vote to implement the law tomorrow . it be a vote to continue the debate . it be a vote to subject the Bill to line - by - line scrutiny in Committee , on Report and on Third Reading . then , of course , the Bill will go to the Lords for what I have no doubt will be far robust debate and scrutiny . this will be a thorough process , focus on one of the most significant issue of our time — an issue that people across the country clearly want we to address , none more so than the many family who be face the brutal and cruel reality of the status quo . today be the beginning , not the end , of that process , but the debate can continue only if colleague join I in the Aye lobby today . I wholeheartedly encourage they to do so , and I commend the Bill to the House . I think you indicate that I could speak for a little long than eight minute , Mr Speaker . yes . thank you very much . I do not want to have too much grumbling at the eight - minute moment . I will take my 15 minute , with time for intervention . I start by pay tribute to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for her very powerful speech and the way in which she have lead this campaign — with great respect , sensitivity and , to use a contested word , dignity . she and I know each other before we be mp , when we both work in the charity sector . I like and admire she greatly , and I know that we have more in common than might appear today . all of we in this House have this in common : we all share a deep concern about the experience of people die or fear death , pain and suffering . I bear heavily on my conscience the people whose life will be prolong beyond their wish if I get my way and this Bill be defeat today . I will not disregard those people or minimise their anxiety . we will hear those voice in today ' s debate — we have hear many of they already — speak through hon . member in what I know will be very move speech . if I vote for this Bill , I would have on my conscience many more people whose voice we can not hear — the people who would be vulnerable as a consequence of the huge change that this Bill would introduce in our society and in the NHS . my view be that if we get our break palliative care system right and our wonderful hospice properly fund , we can do so much more for all the people who we will hear about today , use modern pain relief and therapy to help everybody die with a minimum of suffering when the time come . we will not be able to do that if we introduce this new option ; instead , we will expose many more people to harm . I will go through the Bill in a moment , but first I will say a word about process , in response to the point make by the hon . member for Spen Valley . this Bill be simply too big for the time that it have be give , and I implore hon . member not to hide behind the fiction that it can be amend substantially in Committee and in its later stage . the remain stage of a private Member ' s Bill be for minor tweak , not the kind of wholesale restructuring that we would need if we be ever to make this Bill safe . member who vote for the Bill today must be prepared to see it become law largely unamended . I suggest that if they have any doubt , the only responsible choice be to vote no , and let the advocate of assist dying bring back a well Bill at another time . I deeply appreciate the respectful way in which the hon . Gentleman be make his point , but I stand before he not sure of how any colleague in this Chamber can not have doubt whichever way they be vote today . it feel like there be two necessary harm that we be all force to weigh up . if the hon . Gentleman be so certain that doubt should push people one way , I be deeply intrigue to hear why that be , when it be very clear that many people will continue to suffer unnecessarily if we reject this Bill . I recognise that there be very many doubt on each side , and I fully respect the argument that have be make by the hon . member for Spen Valley . of course this be a finely balanced debate , but the point about process be that this Bill be too flawed ; there be too much to do to it to address in Committee . by all mean , let we have this debate , but let we have that before a Bill of this magnitude be bring forward , the consideration of the Bill should be much more comprehensive . contrary to what the medium be say , today ' s decision be not about bring this Bill into law ; it be about allow it to go to the next stage . People may have misgiving , but the hon . Gentleman be make the assumption that the Bill can not be correct or amend in order to make it palatable to people who have doubt . we all have doubt , but surely today ' s vote be simply to let it go to the next stage . the final decision on Third Reading be the critical one in decide whether the Bill go into law . I think I have make the point that this Bill be too comprehensive and there be too much in it to address through the process of a private Member ' s Bill . if the hon . Gentleman have serious concern about aspect of the Bill that he would not be prepared to see come into law , he should not be support it today . let I explain the concern about the Bill that I think be too comprehensive to be deal with in Committee . I recognise how hard the hon . member for Spen Valley have work to try to ensure that it be safe , but I do not believe it be , for the follow reason . let we start at the beginning . the process start with a conversation between a patient and a medical practitioner — not necessarily a doctor ; just a medic of some sort , unspecified at this stage . if the patient tell their ordinary family doctor that they want an assisted death , the doctor be oblige to either explain how it work or pass they on to someone who will do it — which be probably what will happen , by the way . the likelihood be that we would see a new branch of medicine spring up , like the medic I meet in Canada . will the hon . member give way ? I will in a moment . these medic I meet in Canada be specialist in assist death and personally kill hundred of patient a year in their special clinic . [ interruption . ] if hon . member have difficulty with the language , then I wonder what they be do here . this be what we be talk about . I meet doctor for whom this be their profession and their job , and they be proud to do it . will the hon . member give way ? I will give way to the other hon . Gentleman . I want to be very clear that " medical practitioner " be a synonym for doctor — not nurse , pharmacist , dentist or any other practitioner . to be a doctor be to be a practitioner of medicine . we need to be very clear on this . there be lot of law and regulation on this , and I believe that what the hon . Member say be incorrect . what the Bill actually say be that a doctor mean " a register medical practitioner … who have such training , qualification and experience as the Secretary of State may specify by regulation " . obviously they be some sort of regulated medic — I recognise that — but they be not necessarily a doctor . we will find out . I recognise that they will have professional qualification , but it be not clear what those be go to be because it be not in the Bill . I commend the hon . gentleman for the way in which he be engage in this discussion , in the same spirit as the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . we often hear that one of the safeguard associate with the Bill be that medical practitioner would be involve and that a diagnosis of a terminal illness , with six month or less to live , would be require . do the hon . Gentleman accept that medicine be not an exact science ? it be the science of uncertainty blend with the art of probability . there be no exactitude in this . no court will second - guess medical opinion ; it will simply look at process . I entirely agree with the right hon . gentleman ; he be absolutely right . I be afraid that the definition of terminal illness be in a sense the essential flaw in the Bill , but I will come on to that . go back to the conversation that the patient have with the medical practitioner , the crucial point be that the conversation do not need to be start by the patient , accord to the Bill . it could be start by the medic — any medic — perhaps in hospital , who could make the suggestion of an assist death to a patient who have never raise the issue themselves , whose family have never suggest it and whose own doctor do not think it be the right thing to do . and so the idea be plant . then , for whatever reason — and , by the way , there be no need ever to give a reason — the patient say that they want to proceed with an assisted death . they sign a declaration , or rather somebody else can sign it for they . it could be any professional , someone they do not know — maybe a new medical practitioner . a total stranger can do all the paperwork on their behalf . that be what the clause about the proxy entail . then these two medical practitioner make their assessment . I urge the hon . member to check the wording of the Bill , because if somebody sign as a proxy , they have to have know the individual for two year , and would simply be sign to say that they agree with the patient who wish to go forward with assisted dying . I do not have time to check the Bill now , but from my memory it refer to someone who have know the patient for two year or someone of good standing in the community , which could be some sort of professional who be not know to they at all . someone can quickly check the Bill , but my understanding be that it could be a total stranger to they . be the matter not very clear ? clause 15 ( 5 ) state : " in this section " proxy " mean — ( a ) a person who have know the person make the declaration personally for at least 2 year , or ( b ) a person who be of good standing in the community . " so there be no protection such as that which be pretend by the supporter of the Bill . I be grateful for that intervention . the assessment have to determine whether the patient be terminally ill , whether they have mental capacity to make the decision , and then whether they have be coerce or pressure into the decision . in many way the whole issue turn on the question of whether someone be terminally ill . I be afraid that it be a term of great elasticity , almost to the point of meaninglessness . it be well know , as the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) say early , that it be impossible for doctor to predict with any accuracy that somebody will die within six month . it be a purely subjective judgment , make in this case by a doctor whose job will be approve assist death . they simply have to determine not whether it be reasonably certain that death will occur , but that it can be reasonably expect — in other word , that it be possible . the thrust of the Bill , as I understand it , be to ease suffering and pain in a patient who have a diagnosis and will die of the condition that have be diagnose . but that right could only be exercise within a six - month period , and the pain and discomfort could last a lot long than that . have my hon . friend hear — because I have not — what the importance of six month be ? why not eight , 10 or 12 ? what would stop people challenge it on the ground that the dam have be breach , the six month be entirely arbitrary and it could , and indeed should , be extend by negative resolution in a statutory instrument ? my hon . friend make the right point , and I be afraid to say that be absolutely the case . the six - month cut - off be completely arbitrary and impossible to determine . it be a line in the sand , and of course it could be challenge , as so much of the Bill could be challenge , on human right ground . every one of the safeguard that have be introduce by the hon . member for Spen Valley would in fact be a barrier and a discrimination against the new human right that have be award to one group but should of course be award to all — if the point be concede in this way . early this week , colleague and I meet two eminent doctor who be former president of the Association for Palliative Medicine , and they raise serious concern about the Bill , include that the doctor or medical practitioner who make the assessment need never have meet the person they be assess , or be involve in their care at all . what do the hon . Gentleman make of that ? the hon . Lady make a very important point . I will not get into the question of public opinion and the polling , because it be so contested , but there be clear evidence that the doctor who work with the dying — the palliative care professional — be oppose to a change in the law by a great majority . they see the damage that it would do to the palliative care profession and service , and they see the danger for vulnerable patient . I appreciate that the hon . Gentleman talk to we as a medical professional and we need to listen to his view . but be it not true that any medical assessment be an approximation ; something that can not be say for certain ? for this decision too , we can not be 100 % certain , but that be life . we can not make legislation that be 100 % good because at some point we have to make a decision , on balance , whether something have merit or not . for that reason , we should vote for the Bill . I be grateful to the hon . Lady , especially for promote I to the status of doctor ; I be actually a charity worker and political hack by background . it be good of she to credit I with those skill — perhaps I should set myself up as a medical practitioner . she be right that medic and indeed judge have to make difficult judgment all the time . I think it would be very dangerous and inappropriate to give they the power to do so in this case . the whole question of the six - month cut - off be very important . I acknowledge all the point that have be make , but there be another problem with the definition of terminal illness . almost anybody with a serious illness or disability could fit the definition . I recognise that these be not the case that the hon . member for Spen Valley have in mind — of course they be not — but that be the problem with the Bill . all that someone need to do to qualify for an assist death — for the definition of terminal illness — be refuse treatment , such as insulin if the person be diabetic . in the case of eat disorder , a topic on which I have work with the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , a person just need to refuse food . the evidence from jurisdiction around the world , and our own jurisprudence , show that that would be enough to qualify someone for an assist death . do the hon . Gentleman accept that every day in the NHS patient refuse treatment , and indeed food , and that there be currently legal oversight in respect of coercion and other such matter ? would the Bill not strengthen protection in those area ? I be perplex by that argument . the suggestion that there may be coercion — of course there will be — and abuse , and all sort of injustice that take place in the current system , do not strike I as an argument for regulate and license assist suicide . if we have concern about practice in the NHS , let we deal with that . let we not license suicide — and , by the way , evidence from around the world show that that increase suicide in the general population . Suicide be contagious . for instance , Oregon be often point to as an example . the incidence of suicide , outside assist suicide law , have rise by a third there since it be legalised . there would be enormous contagious effect be we to regulate and license it in this way . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent case for the Bill to be pass today . what he be actually say be that there be specific that require debate , analysis and discussion in great detail in Committee — that be the whole point of it . if it be not deal with properly in Committee , it will not pass Third Reading . he be suggest that because he do not like those specific , we can not discuss the Bill in any detail . I be sure that the hon . member for Spen Valley be delighted to have the support of the hon . Gentleman . I refer he to the point that I be make : this be an inappropriate process . my hon . friend be make a superb speech , as I expect he to do . on the issue of process , I say this to the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , my constituency neighbour : as he will know , I have introduce some very serious Bills , include the one that become the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . it be precede by three independent report and pre - legislative cross - party scrutiny by both Houses , which happen before the Committee stage . the point be that that process should take place before Second Reading , not after . I be grateful to my right hon . friend . I will now run through the process before take any more intervention . as I have explain , pretty much anybody with a serious illness or disability could work out how to qualify for an assist death under the Bill . member may think that far - fetched , but it be what happen everywhere that assist suicide be legal , include in Oregon . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the hon . Gentleman be use incorrect language . it be not suicide . that be offensive . I ask he please to correct his language . that be not a point of order . I be sorry if offence be give , but the fact be that the value of have a Bill in black and white be see what the law really be . what the Bill would do be amend the Suicide Act 1961 . it would allow people to assist with a suicide for the first time . I respect the hon . Lady ' s concern , but I be afraid we do need to use the proper language here . the Bill ' s scope be very broad . member who think that assist suicide for people with anorexia or other condition that would not be regard as terminal could not happen here should consider the young people in the UK today who be give a diagnosis of terminal anorexia and put on a palliative care pathway — essentially , assign to death . of course these be extreme case — rise — I be not go to give way again . there be a great many of these case , I be afraid , and I mention they to show how wide open the Bill be . [ interruption . ] order . may I ask the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) to keep a little calm ? she have intervene twice already , and plenty of other member who also need to be hear . I think particularly of disabled people , many of whom require constant treatment to stay alive . all , immediately and by definition , will be eligible under the term of the Bill for a state - sponsor death . I refer member to the Equality and Human Rights Commission , which have make the point that the line between disability and terminal illness be very blurred . that be why the Bill ' s title be , in fact , so dangerous . rise — I will make a little progress . the second question that medical practitioner have to answer be about mental capacity , and here again be a great vagueness . how do they judge if someone be in their right mind when they be ask for help to kill themselves ? the Bill say that the definition of capacity be base on the Mental Capacity Act 2005 , but that Act be deliberately expansive . it explicitly assume capacity in the patient , so have acute depression be no bar to be judge to have capacity under the Act . be suicidal be no bar under the Act , so the capacity test be no bar at all . finally , there be the question of coercion . be the patient ask for an assist death because of pressure from someone else ? there be two glare problem here . the first be that the process do not even attempt to answer the question properly . there be no investigation , no requirement for medic to interview friend and family , and no need for a psychiatrist or family doctor to be consult . the medic just need to satisfy themselves — who know how ? — that , to the good of their knowledge , the person have not be pressure . the second problem with the coercion test be that it focus on only one type of coercion — the less likely type . the big danger be not other people pressure someone to do this ; it be that they pressure themselves — hon . member have make this point . the Bill have nothing to say on that . internal pressure be absolutely fine . if you feel worthless or a burden to other , if the NHS will not offer you the treatment you need , if the local authority will not make the adjustment you need to your home , if you have to wait too long for a hospital appointment , or if you want to die because you think the system have fail you , that be absolutely fine . rise — I will get to the end of my speech . that be the medical stage , and I will jump straight to the judicial stage . the medical practitioner sign it off , and then the judge have to confirm all the same test . of course , many eminent judge have make the point that it will overwhelm the family court if the test be apply properly , but it will not be apply properly , because the Bill assume that judge will fulfil a new inquisitorial role and actually look into case as investigator , which be entirely unknown in english common law . but the Bill will not require any actual investigation . there be no requirement for a judge even to meet the applicant . they simply have to have a phone call , or maybe it will be an email , from one of the medic . that be it . that be the inquiry . on that basis , the judge must decide whether it be more likely than not that there have be external pressure . after the judge approve it — they be require to approve it , unless they can find evidence of external coercion — we go to " the final act " , as the Bill say , where a junior colleague , as a medical practitioner , oversee your death by pill or lethal injection . and here be the last thing that the Bill do or do not do . there be no requirement at any stage of the process — at either the medical or the judicial stage — for anyone to tell the patient ' s next of kin , their wide family or even their gp that the NHS and the judicial system be work in secret to bring about the death of their love one , maybe their father or their daughter . I say again that these be not the case that the Bill be design for , but they be directly in scope , and it be go to take more than a tweak in Committee to get they out . be this what be mean by have choice at the end of life ? let we talk about choice . I be often accuse of want to impose my view on other — that point be make early . People say , " if you don ' t approve of assist death , don ' t have one , but don ' t deprive I of the choice . " in fact , the evidence be that , with this new option and the comparative loss of investment and innovation in palliative care , real choice will narrow . there be a broad point to make about choice , which be that no man or woman be an island . just as every person ' s death , even a good death , diminish we all , so we will all be involve and affect if we make this change . the Bill will not just create a new option for a few and leave everyone else unaffected ; it will impose this new reality on every person towards the end of their life , on everyone who could be think to be near death , and on their family — the option of assist suicide , the obligation to have a conversation around the bedside or whisper in the corridor , " be it time ? " it will change life and death for everyone . I be very aware of the terrible plight of the people who be beg we for this new law . I think we can do well for they than they fear , but we also need to think in real human term about what the effect will be on the choice of other people , and I do not mean the people who be use to get their way . I be talk about the people who lack agency , the people who know what it be to be exclude from power and to have decision make for they by bigwig in distant office who speak a language they do not understand — the sort of people who the hon . member for Spen Valley and I both know from our previous charity work , and who we all know from our constituency work . they be not the people who write to we campaign for a change in the law , but the people who come to our surgery with their life in tatter , or who the police or social worker tell we about — the people with complex need . what be the safeguard for they ? let I tell the House : we be the safeguard — this place ; this Parliament ; you and I . we be the people who protect the most vulnerable in society from harm , yet we stand on the brink of abandon that role . the Rubicon be a very small stream , but on the other side lie a very different world — a bad world , with a very different idea of human value . the idea that our individual worth lie in our utility , valuable only for so long as we be useful — not a burden , not a cost , not make a mess . let we not be the Parliament that authorise that idea . I mention at the start of my speech the voice of those we can not hear : the frail and elderly and the disabled . as we be surround by such a cloud of witness , let we do well than this Bill . let today be not a vote for despair , but the start of a proper debate about die well , in which we have a well idea than a state suicide service . let we have a debate in which we remember that we have intrinsic value ; that real choice and autonomy mean have access to the good care possible and the full control over what happen to we while we live ; and that true dignity consist in be care for to the end . rise — Order . I remind the House that we want to aim for speech of up to eight minute . I call the Mother of the House . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) on bring forward this Bill , which have be the occasion of a very important national conversation . I recall to the House the fact that , in 1969 , Parliament vote to abolish the death penalty for murder . public opinion be actually against that change , but mps believe , on a point of principle , that the state should not be involve in take a life . it be a good principle in 1969 and it remain a good principle today . I be not against legalise assist die in any circumstance , but I have many reservation about this Bill . in particular , I do not believe that the safeguard be sufficient . they be suppose to be the strong in the world because of the involvement of a High Court judge , but the divisional court have say that " the intervention of a court would simply interpose an expensive and time - consume forensic procedure " . Sir James Munby , the former president of the family division of the High Court , say recently : " only those who believe implicitly in judicial omniscience and infallibility — and I do not — can possibly have any confidence in the efficacy of what be propose . " be the judge suppose to second - guess doctor ? will the judge make a decision on the basis of paperwork ? or will there be a hearing in open court ? where will be the capacity in the criminal justice system to deal with all this ? far from be a genuine safeguard , the involvement of a judge could just be a rubber stamp . More than two third of care proceeding involve the most vulnerable child in our society can not be complete within six month . do my right hon . friend agree that there be a real concern that the safeguard be not deliverable , or risk be the rubber stamp that I know my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) do not want it to be ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend . robust safeguard for the sick and dying be vital to protect they from predatory relative , to protect they from the state and , above all , to protect they from themselves . there will be those who say to themselves that they do not want to be a burden ; I can imagine myself say that in particular circumstance . other will worry about asset they have hope to leave for their grandchild be erode by the cost of care . there will even be a handful who will think they should not be take up a hospital bed . my right hon . friend make her case powerfully . can I ask she to comment on the current situation whereby people ask themselves the question she just ask today ? what safeguard be there for those people ? what inquiry be make before those people pass away , often have take the most drastic and horrific action to do so ? but if the House pass this legislation , the issue that I have raise will become foremost in people ' s mind even more so . we be tell that there be no evidence of coercion in jurisdiction where assisted suicide be possible , but people do not generally write letter to sick relative urge they to consider assist suicide and then put those letter on file . coercion in the family context can be about not what you say but what you do not say — the long , meaningful pause . as a medical professional who be surround by even more senior medical professional , I know we can all miss thing when there be tangible in front of we : the shadow on x - ray and the marker on blood test . as professional , we miss thing that can be see . what security will we have that we can pick up thing that we can not see , like coercion ? that be the point : coercion be something that there will be no material evidence of and that we can not see . People keep say that the Bill can not be amend , but of course any future Government could bring in new clause . we can see what have happen in Canada , which introduce assist die in 2016 for adult with terminal illness . in 2021 , it be extend to people with no terminal illness and the disabled . in March 2027 , anyone with a serious mental health problem will also be eligible . the House should remember that no single organisation represent the disabled support the Bill . my daughter Maria live her life with severe disability and health condition . since her birth , we be tell many time that she might have only six month to live . she live for 27 year . crucially , Maria be non - verbal . I be fill with dread and fear about what might happen to people like Maria who be non - verbal and do not have that capacity , if they be not love and care for and do not have somebody speak out for they . I have hear so many story like that . the arbitrary cut - off of six month do not necessarily meet with the reality of sick people . the case of Maria , and other , should give we all pause . do the right hon . Lady agree , with two third of the Cabinet apparently support this measure in principle , that we should reject the Bill today , but that we should as a House commit not to go another 10 year ignore this topic , but to come forward in a consider way , ensure it be look at properly , and do everything possible to have a system that be more robust , more caring and ensure good outcome for people like Maria ? order . let I also say that we must try to keep to the time limit . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman . as I say right at the beginning , I be not against assist die in any circumstance . if the Bill pass , we will have the NHS as a 100 % funded suicide service , but palliative care will be fund only at 30 % at well . the former Member for Dunfermline East , Gordon Brown , have say recently : " we need to show we can do well at assist living before decide whether to legislate on way to die . " I represent very many vulnerable people in marginalised community . I can not vote for a Bill when I have doubt about whether they will be protect . we can come back , have a commission and craft a well bill , but I will not be vote for the Bill today . I want to make three brief point . first , I have completely change by mind on this subject since I enter the House during the last century , because I have sit in my advice surgery with tear pour down my face listen to constituent who have set out so clearly , speak with such emotion , about how their mother , brother , father or child have die in great pain and great indignity . I strongly support the Bill , and I congratulate the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) on the excellent way in which she have present it . I believe that we should give our constituent — our fellow citizen — this choice . I want this choice for my constituent ; I want it for those whom I love ; and I want it , perhaps one day , for myself . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , I be afraid . the current law force people to plan their death in secret . their body be find by their love one . often , they die in the most horrific circumstance . they have no chance to say goodbye to their love one . it be devastating for their family . the former Health Secretary commission the Office for National Statistics to try to find out how many people who commit suicide every year be die people . the figure be between 300 and 650 . secondly , in our democracy , the Commons must make this decision . only we , elect by our constituent , have the legitimacy to do this . it be not the DPP , the Crown Prosecution Service , the police , doctor or even unelecte Members of the House of Lords — this House of Commons must make this decision . let we be clear that all of we on both side of the debate strongly support an increase in the quality and extent of palliative care . for I , the debate be about extend choice , in very narrow and heavily regulate circumstance under the Bill , as the hon . Lady so clearly set out — the choice not to be force to end your life in pain and indignity . no element in the Bill talk about intolerable suffering . many believe that the Bill be too narrowly draw . I stand by the hon . Lady ' s draft . we should remember that in Oregon there have be no serious attempt to change or amend the law . I have the privilege of speak to an NHS consultant last year , the day before she head to Dignitas . she say , " I love my country , but I object very strongly to my country force I to make this choice , and to have to travel unaccompanied to a foreign country to die . " the status quo be cruel and dangerous . People catch up in these circumstance have no transparency ; there be no regulation , safeguard or oversight . the Bill contain a whole series of safeguard that be not present at the moment . thirdly , we be decide today on a principle . if the Bill be vote down on Second Reading , that will be the end of the matter for many year , and we will do that in the knowledge that Scotland , the Isle of Man , Jersey and many other country be likely to bring in legislation like this . there be 300 million people in 30 jurisdiction who have secure this ability to choose . there will be numerous safeguard . there will not be a slippery slope unless this Parliament agree to there be one . if we agree to a Second reading today it be , in my judgment , inconceivable that the Government Front Bench will not ensure we have the proper time to scrutinise the Bill . this Bill go with the grain of our constituent ' view — about 75 % , accord to the most recent polling . there be an opportunity and a chance , as the hon . member for Spen Valley have set out , to consider in detail these matter ahead of Third Reading . as draft , the Bill seem to I a very modest and control proposal . let we not forget this : Oregon show we that few people take these step once they know they have this choice as a back - up . I end with something I have never forget . some year ago , I be listen in a debate to a young man who have recently lose his father . he have visit his father and see he in great pain and indignity . he have see he three day before he die . in the end his father put a bag over his head and use his dressing - gown cord to hang himself . that young man say to all of we : " if you be ever in this position , let ' s hope that God will help you , because they certainly win ' t . " today , this House have the opportunity to ensure that they will . it be a pleasure to follow the excellent speech of the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) . in preparation for today I have have a number of discussion with my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , and I want to put on record that the measured way she have deal with the proceeding have be excellent . I do not know whether she have ever have moment of doubt whether this be the right thing to pick as a private Member ' s Bill , but she have be an absolute credit to this House in the way she have deal with these matter so far . in 2015 , in the last Chamber debate on this subject , I wound up for the Opposition Front Bench , but my interest in it go back much far . like all member of this House , I have have hundred of email from constituent on both side of the argument . many ask I to oppose the Bill ; those email come from people of faith , and I wholly and entirely respect what they say , but they be the first people also to say that this be an individual decision for every individual Member of the House to make . as I have be at the bottom of the list of speaker to be call for so many year , I have great sympathy for those who find themselves there today , so I will try to keep my remark to one narrow point : the legal context of the Bill . there be a false dichotomy that the law as it stand be fit for purpose , that we go into the unknown with the Bill before we and that we should somehow keep the safety of the status quo . I think that could not be more wrong . there be no safeguard in the current law . the only sanction against coercion be ex post facto ; we be leave it to individual director of public prosecution to make decision in individual case after the event . dpp take that job extremely seriously , as anyone know who have hear Sir Max Hill , the last DPP to speak on the subject . they have , at the instigation of the court , set out guideline — I think we know that it be an excellent director of Public Prosecutions who set out the guideline on this case . they have do everything they can , but it be not their responsibility ; it be our responsibility , and the court , up to and include the Supreme Court , have make that clear . we assign in this Bill a role to the High Court as part of the process , but we be the final decision taker . that have be make clear not only by domestic , but by international court ; the European Court of Human Rights have say in every case in which such matter have come before it that the margin of appreciation should be put into effect and therefore it should not interfere with the law as we decide it . we can not dodge our responsibility and I know that we do not want to do that . we have a duty to put in place the good law we can , and that be not the law as it stand . there be three choice for people who want to end their own life . they can go to Dignitas alone , if they can afford to do that . they can attempt , and perhaps succeed in , suicide . they risk fail . if they succeed , they will have a lonely death . they may , as other have point out , simply have to resort to refuse treatment or food . the third option be that they can embroil their relative or friend , at the risk of their be investigate or prosecute . they also risk end their life too soon . on safeguard , I do not follow the view of opponent of the Bill . at some time they seem to say that they be too complex , too expensive and that there be not enough resource . if we want to resource the Bill , we can . I do not think that those be the strong argument . will my hon . friend give way ? I really do not want to , because of the time . I be sorry . [ interruption . ] should I ? I will give way once . my hon . friend talk a little about safeguard . I invite he and the House to reflect on the covid pandemic , when a lot of safeguard around a lot of thing be relaxed . I worry that if we be to see another pandemic on the scale that we see in 2020 , people might feel that they be do something patriotic by get out of the way and free up a bed for a young person . I invite he to reflect on that . in practice , a terminally ill person will need to formally consider their decision at least eight time under the provision in the Bill . this be a starting point — a number of member have make that point . I believe the Bill have already have more scrutiny than most public Bills we consider , but we have up to nine month before we to consider it far . all the practical and legal consideration point towards the Bill . it may well be amend to change the safeguard or the way it operate , but we have the opportunity to do that . in the end , for I , that be not the decision . the decision be about two thing : it be about human dignity and it be about agency . I would like to think that even at the end of life — no , especially at the end of life — when someone have their faculty but may be at their weak ebb , they can still exercise that agency and still make decision for themselves . they can have the long life they can and they can end that life in the way that be most beneficial to they , their love one and their family . that be simply not happen , and by vote against the Bill today member ignore those fact . when I be a child , my parent shield I from death . century of art , literature and religion teach I that death be something noble or even slightly romantic . when I become an adult , I learn pretty quickly that that be not the case . for far too many , it be anything but and certainly not noble . the deathbed for far too many be a place of misery , torture and degradation , a reign of blood and vomit and tear . I see no compassion and beauty in that , only profound human suffering . in 10 year of campaign on this issue , I have spend many , many hour with die and bereaved people , which have , time and again , reinforce my view . I be a co - sponsor of the Bill and I be the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for choice at the end of life . I could give a speech to promote the Bill , but my hon . friend — and I do call she a friend — the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) have do that remarkably well . in my speech I want to address some of the common issue that have be raise , and that will no doubt be raise during the debate , with which I struggle . first , we will no doubt hear an awful lot about the overseas experience . I be married to a Canadian , and I can tell the House that they love their child just as much as we do . the idea that the Canadians , Australians , New Zealanders , Spanish and Austrians care little for their relative , or indeed for the wide society in which they live , be frankly offensive . we should not pretend that somehow we be special or different . they have think as profoundly on these issue as we have over the past 10 year . we can learn from they , and design a system for our own sensibility and culture , as they have do . they all have different law on abortion , some of which we would not pass in this House , but that do not mean we should not have abortion law here . we be a 1 , 000 - year - old democracy , and we should be able to design legislation that deal with this issue for ourselves . the second issue that have be raise with which I have struggle regard the impact on the NHS and on judge . People be already die ; they be already in the national health service and entitle to care . even if we think there will be an impact , be people seriously tell I that my death , my agony , be too much for the NHS to have time for , or too much hassle ? it be even claim that such matter would overload the judge — that I should drown in my own faecal vomit because it be too much hassle for the judge to deal with . we send thing from this House to the NHS and to judge all the time . be anyone suggest that we should not create the new offence of spiking , which have come through this week , because judge be overwork ? of course not . they will cope as they have do with all sort of thing that we have send from this House over the year , and we should not countenance the idea that some logistical problem will get in the way of our give a good death to our fellow citizen . I also want to address directly those member who be consider vote against the Bill , to ensure that they be clear in their mind that a vote against the Bill be not a passive act . there be two state of be on offer today . I have to break some news to member : whatever happen to the Bill today , people with a terminal illness will still take their life . if the Bill fall today , we will be consign those people to take their life in brutal , violent way , as they be at the moment , and will see increase number of our fellow citizen make the trip to Switzerland if they can afford it . we know that between 600 and 700 people a year be kill themselves in violent way — shoot themselves , throw themselves in front of train , take overdose in lonely , horrible circumstance . as I say , many be go to Switzerland , but more than that be lie in hospital — I guarantee that there will be somebody over the river in St Thomas ' hospital now who be refuse treatment and starve themselves to death because they can not face what be in front of they . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that we have a choice today ? we have come here to debate assist dying , but we could have come here to build cross - party consensus on how finally , once and for all , to fix palliative care in this country . we could have come to look at a funding consensus , as that do need to be cross - party . I agree with his point that vote no be also a choice , but what follow from that should be a cross - party consensus on how we fix palliative care . I agree with the hon . Gentleman , and what a surprise it be that the conversation about palliative care have start . we be not have that conversation before this Bill come forward . the evidence from the Health and Care Committee , publish only in February this year , show that palliative care and assist die go hand in hand . rise — I will not give way . improvement also go hand in hand ; medic from across the world tell we that the two thing be complementary . in Australia I discuss this issue with a palliative care doctor who be against the introduction of assist dying when they be contemplate it . she now find it an invaluable tool , and she embrace it as something that her patient want and need . my concern be that if the Bill be turn down , as it be in 2015 , the conversation about palliative care will wither , as it have do for the past 10 year . I want to share a story that have particularly affect I . Mark Crampton be a former police chief inspector who be suffer from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . his copd become too much for he , so he inform his family that he be go to take his own life . he take his oxygen tank and mask and late one night go out and sit on a railway embankment . he want a death that be instant and quick , and that he could rely on . he wait until 2 in the morning — heartbreakingly , he have work out when the last train be go , so he would minimise disruption to the public — and then take his life in lonely circumstance in the middle of the night . by not pass the Bill , we would deny to Mark supervision , conversation , access to doctor , period of reflection , advice . even if he have be through all that and decide it be still too much , the Bill would give he a much well end than he actually achieve . member should be clear , as I say , that whatever happen to the Bill , terminal people will still take their life . I have to say to the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , who say that hundred of people die in agony every year be a price worth pay for the good of society , that I find that an appalling prospect . a society that look away from these people — like those in the Public Gallery who be live in terrible fear of what will face they , or who have watch their family die in fear — and say that that be okay for the good of the whole be a terrible , terrible prospect . we have a duty to assist they , as other country around the world have do , and to find a way to make they comfortable in the end . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will not . finally , I want to talk briefly about right . we hear a lot about right in this debate — quite rightly . we hear about the right and fear of the disabled community , who be specifically exclude from the Bill ; we hear a lot about the right and fear of the elderly , who be also specifically exclude from the Bill ; we be even hear about the right of doctor , who be allow to conscientiously object to participate in this process , if they wish . when be we go to have the conversation about the right of the dying ? where do we put they in the ranking of right , as they face their end ? when do we grant they the autonomy and choice for which so many of they have campaign over the year ? surely , as they come towards the end of their life , their right have to be at the forefront of our mind . the last , good gift we can give they be control over the disease that be destroy they . if we do not pass the Bill today , we be corner all those people ; we be trap they , with the law , in their disease , and consign they to an end of torture and degradation that they do not wish to go through . as I say before , we be a 1 , 000 - year old democracy . it be not beyond we to design legislation that will give those people what they want , while protect those whom we feel need to be protect . like my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , I want this choice for my constituent , but profoundly I want it for myself and for the people in the Public Gallery who have work so hard over the past decade to get we to change our mind . I ask Members please to be clear that whatever happen today , terminal people will still take their own life — all we be decide today be how . rise — with the reminder that there be no formal time limit , and if we wish to get in as many member as possible , could member please constrain themselves to about eight minute ? this be hard , Madam Deputy Speaker . with compassion , we search for way to well alleviate pain and suffering and ensure that those we love die in peace . initiate by the Bill , focus have rapidly turn to care for the dying and optimise every moment of the life that we want to hold on to ; it break we know that at some point we have to let go . that be the mission of Dame Cicely Saunders , founder of the hospice movement . thankfully , most die in peace , but tragically not all . funding for palliative care have regress against rise demand in an age society with grow comorbiditie . hospice be pare back service . research by the Anscombe Bioethics Centre in Oxford highlight how jurisdiction with assisted die fall down the ranking on palliative care , while promise funding never materialise . when more than 100 , 000 people , predominantly in poverty , from minoritise community or base on postcode , fail to access any palliative care despite need it , or when those who access care do so from frequently overstretch service , unable to make timely or optimised intervention , or when , for most , care start far too late , tragic testimony follow , as we have hear in recent day . we all know that the NHS be under significant duress , and just can not do what it should . social care be fragmented and costly , and palliative care be significantly underfunded and inequitable . this be a mess . follow Lord Darzi ' s devastating report , we must give my right hon . friend the Health Secretary the opportunity to reset health and care . I believe that that be what we on these Benches be elect to do . with just 17 day since publication , this Bill have consume we and that will only intensify if it proceed . instead , our focus should be on get palliation right and then see what be really need . we can not do both as there be simply not the capacity . More than 70 % of the public say that they want a commission on palliative and end - of - life care before we consider assist die . other poll agree . plan for a commission be well advanced . I agree with the hon . Lady entirely : the way forward should be through well palliative care and not through assist suicide . the Bill do not address the need of child . would she recognise that we also need well palliative care for child as well as adult ? I completely agree with the right hon . Gentleman , who make a pertinent point . after all , we would never write a prescription before make a diagnosis , yet this Bill do that . it be simply prescribe the wrong medicine . extraordinarily , there be no critical analysis , not even an impact assessment , when such significant matter of life and death be at stake and when our broken health and justice system would be stretch even far . my constituent be just 46 when she receive a terminal diagnosis . she do not have long ; the cancer be advance and the prognosis would have qualify she for an assist death . have it be law , she would have consent . now 54 and in remission , she plead that the Bill should not pass . palliative care consultant say that it be nearly impossible to prognosticate at six month ; just 46 % get it right . expert say that the arbitrary six - month threshold be insecure . we must recognise its prematurity . clause 2 ( 2 ) say that someone for whom treatment only relieve symptom but do not cure they would qualify for an assisted death if they be within the criterion . we understand someone decline chemotherapy , but the provision extend to any condition where a cocktail of drug be sustain life . the person involve may be only 18 . that would not need a change in the law ; it be write in the Bill . my great concern be coercion . we live in a coercive society ; the UK spend £ 40 billion on advertising and ever more powerful algorithm drive we to content online . we recognise coercion in relationship or eld abuse , but the Bill fail to safeguard against it when someone be die and there be malign intent . People often recognise coercion only after year have pass , yet within a month someone could be dead . malign coercion case may be few , but as a clinician work at the fringe of life , I hear my patient frequently say , " I don ' t want to be a burden , " or " I ' d rather the money go to the grandchild than on my care , " or " somebody be more deserving than I . " intrinsic coercion be very real , not least where the law have change — rapidly become an expectation , verbalise as a duty to die . in fact , not want to be a burden be cite as a major reason to opt for an assist death , alongside loss of dignity , loneliness , and need personal care , yet every day , disabled people live in this reality . we fight in this House to take away stigma and give dignity , equality and worth . that be why disabled people fear the Bill : it devalue they in a society where they fight to live . we should understand why Disability Rights UK oppose and why Liberty oppose : to push back against the Bill be the cause of the progressive and the libertarian , not just the domain of the conservative . under this Bill , a doctor may raise an assisted death with their patient — clause 4 ( 2 ) . give the trust we place in doctor , not least when people be vulnerable , this be so significantly coercive . let we suppose there be unconscious bias , which be well know in healthcare . before people question that assertion , let I cite the industrial application of the Liverpool care pathway , and then , five and a half year after its ban , the covid " do not actively resuscitate " letter . the evidence show that disabled and ethnic minority people experience bias in healthcare . those who stand for equality will recognise the safeguarding failure in the Bill . while not want to encourage suicidal ideation , rate be 6 % high in jurisdiction where there be assist suicide . on the process , two doctor — possibly unknown to the patient — ask a set of question . it can take day to establish capacity in the court , but it only need a consultation . that be the same for assess coercion and prognosis . doctor be proponent of assist dying . risk increase in closed environment . at least the Isle of Man be consider a parole board - style approach ; this Bill do not . the documentation of the decision fail in its rigour , not even seek evidence for the decision . it be pass to a judge . Sir James Munby , former family division president , describe , " a scheme which do not provide for an open and transparent process but , on the contrary , permit a secret process which can give we no confidence that it will enable the court to identify and prevent possible abuse . " in decry how the Bill change the role of the judge to one of certify compliance , he state , " the Leadbeater Bill fall lamentably short of provide adequate safeguard , " describe the suspension of any appeal as an " extraordinary " omission , not least if the patient ' s concerned relative or physician can not take their case . that be back by Thomas Teague KC , former chief coroner , who say the safeguard " will not hold " and that they " amount to nothing more than arbitrary restriction , with no rational foundation . " Lord Sumption , former Supreme Court judge , highlight that once the law facilitate assist suicide , it could be deem discriminatory to deny other — disabled people — the same right . barrister say they will take case . they expect the law to change . will my hon . friend give way ? I will press on . much would rely on regulation use the negative procedure , and some the affirmative . even if not prepare within two year , clause 42 ( 3 ) say the Act would be fully implement . the Bill change the role of the chief medical officer without any analysis , as be the case for doctor . during the 14 - month Health and Social Care Committee inquiry , we hear how the clinician - patient relationship change with assist suicide . record keeping and datum collation be inadequate , as we find in Oregon . clause 18 ( 9 ) highlight that the procedure may fail . the Bill be silent on how to manage such case , but it should be explicit . we must acknowledge that it be not always peaceful . we learn in Oregon that some have seizure or vomit as the body reject the toxic medication . the Bill fall woefully short on safeguard patient , too . it be too flawed to amend . it be a wrong and rush answer to a complex problem . today , we must be beyond reasonable doubt of error if vote for the Bill . remember , the vote be not on the principle of assist dying or on choice , but the principle detail within the clause of the Bill . polling overwhelmingly say that if member be in any doubt , the public expect they to vote against the Bill today . we can focus on optimise palliative and end of life medicine to build consensus and to discern what further step need take . for death , as with life , be too precious to get this wrong . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . I congratulate the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) on bring the Bill . I commend she for the tone she have set in shepherd the debate and , indeed , I commend member across the House with sincerely hold view for the way we have do this so far — I hope it will continue . Most thing we do in this place have some bearing on life and death , but it be rare we discuss those concept in their most visceral and direct form . as a nation , we do not talk about death nearly enough , especially while we be well , but it happen to we all , so I welcome the chance to enable well conversation not just in this place together , but in people ' s own mind for themselves . no matter how anyone vote today , I hope that we can all agree that this debate be a profound and proud moment for our democracy . to that end , I want to be up front : I will be vote for the Bill today , because I want this conversation to continue . to those argue the moral ground and make the point that we be cross the Rubicon , I sincerely respect their view . these be moral judgment . there will be member who be make the moral case , and I want to hear they . but I urge those mp who might be minded to vote for the Bill on principle , but be worried about the detail — how we might change a word , the role of clinician or mps , or whatever it may be — to reconsider the question they be ask themselves today . this be Second reading . the medium be ask all of we , " be you for or against the Bill ? " , but I urge hon . member to think about the question differently . the question I will be answer today be , " do I want to keep talk about the issue in the Bill ? " I be ask myself if I want to keep grapple with the detail until I get to Third Reading , when I might reserve the right to vote no . they can decide the answer to that question for themselves . I appreciate the hon . Lady give way , but she be misrepresent what we be do at this point . we be speak about the specific of this Bill : this be not a general debate or a theoretical discussion , but about the specific of the Bill . my hon . friend the Member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) have highlight numerous deficiency , and I will provide one example . if the propose legislation be such a good thing to alleviate pain and suffering — a right that we should be proud to pass — why be we deny it to child ? if it be a positive , why be we deny it to child ? we be discuss the specific . the right hon . Gentleman might want to raise that issue in Committee , at a later stage . however , it be important for hon . member to appreciate that they can vote yes today , and vote no later . I want to come on to palliative care , which be really important . the message from the sector , patient and their family be crystal clear : palliative care be not good enough and we must do well . do my hon . friend agree that we be not talk about a choice between palliative care and assist die ? the two can go hand in hand , but with the knowledge that if palliative care do not provide the individual with the comfort they require , the Bill would give they the option to decide how they want to end their life , rather than drift away without be able to have a final cuddle or say a final goodbye . there need to be a debate around palliative care . my concern be that we have not have any firm commitment from Government , other than woolly word , about how they be actually go to tackle the issue , and that a royal commission will push it into the long grass . I say to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who be in his place , that the gauntlet have be throw down . if he want someone like I to not vote for the Bill move forward , he need to do two thing : he need to put firm commitment on palliative care on the table and resolve they within the next one or two year , and then , afterwards , commit to bring back a Bill like this one in Government time . without those firm commitment , I will continue to make the case for want to see progress . the hon . Lady and I come to this subject from different place , as I will be vote against the Bill . I agree with she and all the hon . member who have speak about the need to massively improve palliative care , but she say we can address some of those concern at a later stage . how do one address coercion and guilt through legislation ? these be conversation that I want to keep happen , but I say to those who be make the argument about the process and ask how we can make that well , what do a Bill that address assist die that they might vote for look like ? if the answer be that there be none , let we be honest about that . I want to end by give a tiny amount of my time to someone who be in the Gallery today . Tracey , I can not see you right now , but thank you for come . I say to Tracey , my constituent , when we meet that I would allow some of her word to be speak today . Tracey be 58 when she be diagnose with incurable stage 4 breast cancer , which spread to become a brain tumour in 2023 . it be successfully remove , but Tracey live every day know that her cancer be likely to return . these be the word Tracey want we to hear : " despite this prognosis I can honestly say that I be a happy person now . I feel lucky to have make it to 60 . there be just one black cloud on the horizon for I , and it be the way that I will die . I be terrified that I will suffer a long , painful death . if I know I have the choice to have a good death , these worry would disappear . please change the law so I can live what life I have leave , safe in the knowledge that I have a choice about how and when I die . if you do this , I will be able to live even more happily today know that I do not need to worry about the prospect of a cruel and painful death . " I will end by say that there be sincerely hold view be hear today . let this be this Parliament that ensure , regardless of how we vote today , that we give people a good death . I have lead two Westminster Hall debate for the Petitions Committee on the subject of assist dying . I have grapple with this subject , and I still do . when my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) be speak early , I have a packet of tissue , and I make swift work of they . it really be so difficult for so many we , with our personal experience and our own thought . it be genuinely our privilege to be able to say that this be what we want or what we do not want . we may not be face this right now in our life , but when you be , you think about it deeply . I will be vote for the Bill today . I think about this all the time — I need to maybe get a bit of a life — because it really be something that bother I . it be an honour for all of we in the Chamber to be able to debate this today , whatever our view . I have to say , this be just not easy . I want everybody out there to know that it be not easy . it be really difficult , and it be difficult for those on both side of the debate . I will get to the Bill now , because as have be point out , we be here to talk about the Bill , not to get overly emotional . I want to talk about how it impact Wales . I hope we will be able amend the Bill to take consideration of these thing , and I hope that we can look at this in detail in the Lords . I believe that the Bill should pass today , because we need to discuss it and know how it be go to work . as it be currently draft , we will need to look to the Welsh Government to see if there need to be a legislative consent motion , because it do not seem to engage with the Sewel convention in a substantive way . issue that have be raise with I include that the Bill place multiple duty on the Secretary of State in England around code of practice and ensure assistance within the NHS . the Welsh Government need to be happy with the Secretary of State in England decide how service be to be provide within the Welsh NHS . there will need to be an amendment , which I suspect will then engage with the Sewel convention . the need for subordinate legislation to enact the Bill be really complicated , and we need to see how it will be pass in this place . there be issue around the code of practice , because some of they be devolve . I want to highlight that , because regardless of the emotional story that we will hear today , we need to mindful that the Bill have an impact on legislation in Wales . it be very important that if the Bill do go through today , those discussion be have , because everybody ' s life matter , and we have to get this legislation right . I do not want to take up any more time , but I thank all my hon . friend and , in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley , who have be an absolute gem . prior to my election to Parliament , as a consultant psychiatrist with a phd in decision - make capacity , I would have meet both criterion to be a medical expert assessor under clause 9 ( 3 ) ( b ) , so I have a particular perspective as someone who , in different circumstance , might have be call upon to make these assessment . I strongly believe that we should respect and support the right to bodily autonomy for people with full decision - make capacity , subject to the caveat that it do not cause serious harm to other . I argue for this when I be on the work group of the independent review of the Mental Health Act 1983 and on the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee on the Mental Health Bill , which , among other thing , aim to prevent people from come to harm when suffer from severe mental illness . these reform be debate in the House of Lords this week , and they demonstrate how Parliament should legislate in complex area that balance individual autonomy and risk . in contrast , as a private Member ' s Bill , there be limited ability for scrutinise this Bill ' s provision . it have have no independent review , no pre - legislative scrutiny and no impact assessment . many mps support the principle of assist dying yet have concern about implementation , resource implication and safeguarding . that be why I , along with colleague on both side of the House , table a reason amendment call for an independent review and consultation before a vote in Parliament , to provide a third way through . I thank the member who support the amendment , particularly the hon . member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) and for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , for their work and their extensive and careful consideration . although the general debate on assist dying may focus largely on the principle , legislation must address the limit to and the safeguard on consent . should people be able to agree to a medically assist death ? if so , what restriction , if any , should there be on people who can make this decision — age , capacity , terminal illness , intolerable suffering ? and then , what safeguard be there to uphold these limit and to prevent abuse — assessment by two doctor , judicial scrutiny ? give that the main argument I see in favour of assist dying be the exercise of personal autonomy , I believe the most substantive issue we need to wrestle with be the limit that we set . why be this Bill limit to the terminally ill and not those who be suffer without that be terminal ? what even come within the scope of terminal illness ? with the refusal of treatment and medication , condition such as type 1 diabete and HIV can be designate as terminal , despite be fully treatable . there be many question , but in this Bill the most prominent problem be that , in a legal context , if the availability of assist dying be limit only to those who be terminally ill , it be discriminatory either to those with or without terminal illness . either their right to autonomy be great than other ' , or the value of their life be worth less . we must also ask whether autonomy can be exercise where there be no choice . if good palliative care be simply not available , can we really rely on this as a true and free decision ? I would argue that we can not , and that this Bill do not safeguard against coercion through state neglect . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I usually would , but unfortunately that would impact on other member who wish to speak . I apologise . what be fundamental to I , give my interest in capacity , be that we have not consider how much human decision making be drive by altruistic intention . " I do it for my child " be rightly a primary motivation in many setting , but as a society be we comfortable with a decision to seek a medically assist death so as not to be a burden on one ' s family or to save they money ? this will not impact on capacity . we can not pretend that capacity assessment will be a shield for these moral concern . where be the line , if there be one , between indirect coercion and the natural human response in a stressed family unit look after a sick love one ? I believe that we could introduce legislation on assist dying that have fully review and address these issue , but parliamentarian must deal with what we have in front of we today . proponent on both side of the debate frame this vote on Second Reading as a vote on the principle of assist dying , but in reality it be a vote on implementation as put forward in this Bill . as a former mental health doctor , I be proud that I be there for the most vulnerable . today , I think about those without a voice in this debate or in the tv studio . I think about the elderly woman in the care home with mild cognitive impairment , who retain capacity but be nevertheless vulnerable to coercion and undue influence , or the sick mother whose child may lose their job or their relationship due to the burden of care responsibility . the Bill would not protect they . it risk place implicit pressure on people already vulnerable at a time of life when they should receive our unwavering care and support . we should and must vote it down . in my brief remark today , I want to touch on principle , policy and practice . we have to be very clear that we be have a debate not just on the principle , but on the Bill . the principle at stake be that we would cross a Rubicon whereby someone who be terminally ill , accord to the definition in the Bill , be assist by the state to die . that be a fundamental change in the relationship between the state and the citizen , and the patient and their doctor . if we have a scintilla of doubt about allow the state that power , we should vote against the Bill today . like most of we , I come into politic partly to stand up for the vulnerable , and we have hear heartbreaking story today about those vulnerable at the point of death . we have also hear — and I concur completely with my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) — about those who be vulnerable for other reason and who could be coerce or persuade down this route . I have have the privilege of be around the hospice movement for nearly 50 year , as my father establish one of the first national health service hospice in this country . I see what he do as a doctor in a world where death be not talk about , where surgeon would say , " we ' ll whip this bit out and you ' ll be fine . " he would be one of the first to have to tell the patient that they be actually go to die . the work that he do , on the back of giant such as Dame Cicely Saunders , be something we should be proud of . we be the first country in the world to recognise palliative care as a separate profession , and some of the tragedy we have hear about today arise from a failure in that system . a failure in palliative care and support be not a reason to continue . I have personal experience of this . many hon . member will remember when my daughter be very ill a few year ago . I have not intend to speak about this today , but she be admit to hospital as a teenager with acute pancreatitis . the Bill would not have cover she , but I do not know for five day — in fact , many month — whether she would live or die . for those first five day she do not sleep and she do not eat , and she be cry out in pain . I see what good medicine can do . it palliate that pain and get she to a place where , although she be unable to eat for two and a half month , she be save and her pain be manage . our good friend be the pain nurse and the anaesthetist . I have other example of another family member , but I do not have time to go into they today . I hope my daughter forgive I for raise her personal situation in the House today — will my hon . friend give way ? I pay tribute to she for the strength that she be show . indeed , I pay tribute to all member on both side of the House who be deal with this very difficult issue . do she agree that we already have assist die in this country ? legislation already allow for choice , prove that people would be able to die at home with carefully administer , practitioner - lead pain management . do she agree that the inconsistency of this application of good pain management at the end of life , cause compassionate legislator to feel that the only option be to vote for the Bill , be a failure of our exist national health system , and do she — order . intervention will have to be short in this debate because many member wish to speak , so perhaps that be enough . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . she be absolutely right . when we see the system work , it be great , but some of what we have hear today have refer to a failure of the system . that can not be a reason for we to accept the Bill today . for more than 30 year I have be scrutinise the policy and action of public body and see the mistake that they make , both in the care sector when I be in local government and more recently as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . the time for we to make this decision be wrong , frankly . at a time when 44 , 000 terminally ill pensioner be set to lose their winter fuel allowance — indeed , many of they have lose it — we be discuss whether we will pass a Bill , a state - sanction Bill , deal with a taboo that many of we be reluctant to talk about . where I do agree with the hon . Gentleman be that the time be not right . we have not have the proper discussion about palliative care . some of we have be try to talk about it for many year , and we need to ensure that this debate do not stop today , but the Bill must stop today . it be not develop to deliver the palliative care resource that we need . I do want to touch on the policy , but let I first return to the point that I be make before the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . we have see many failure in the system , include contaminate blood , and whistleblowe in the NHS repeatedly show such failure . there be great trust among those who support the Bill that these safeguard will deliver . I will not go into the detail , because other have already do so , and I be sure that many more will , but we make coercive control illegal in 2015 , and although the Bill refer to safeguard , I fear that that will not pick up coercive control . when we rule it to be illegal , we think that be a moment of progress in the House . give the time , I will now move on to some of the practical challenge . my constituent be struggle to see doctor face to face , and see the same doctor twice seem like a miracle in today ' s Britain . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be try to sort it out , but it will take a long time . we need to sort out our battle health service , we need to support palliative care , and we need to discuss what a good death be . Cicely saunder campaign and triumph to ensure that we have one of the good hospice movement in the world . if member have any doubt in their mind about the impact of the Bill on people who do not have the same capacity as those who be talk about this in the television and radio studio , they should think of those in my constituency who have poor English , or the woman who come to see I a month ago with terrible pain in her gall bladder . remove it would have be a simple daytime operation , but she do not understand what the doctor have tell she , and she be not go to have her gall bladder take out because she do not know what it mean to be without a gall bladder . let I say this to those member : if someone who be English , a bright woman in her 60 , be unable to challenge what be say to she and to have that conversation with a doctor , just think what pass the Bill today would mean for many more vulnerable people . I thank the House for its indulgence . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , and I want to follow she in talk about palliative care . let I start by read an email that be send to I only yesterday by a personal friend and constituent : " I apologise for add to the thousand of email you will be receive . I just want to tell you why I oppose the right to die Bill . I know you be aware of the experience I have when my husband be die . in hospital we have a dreadful experience because they have no end - of - life care and he suffer . once in the Hospice it be a different story and he receive the love care he rightly deserve . my argument be that , instead of assist dying , we should be spend much more money on end - of - life care and fund the wonderful Hospice movement . thank you for read this . " I will read another letter , from a doctor , which I think encapsulate some of the problem that we encounter in this issue : " only recently , I be give my condolence to a grieve woman who have lose her husband in the early hour . he have be give a few small dose of pain relief and mild sedative over the last few night for symptom control and have pass away peacefully at her side . she ask I in all seriousness , ' doctor , do the nurse give he something to make he die quick last night ? ' this be an awful linger doubt that she have . I be able to firmly reassure she that , no , the medication would not have speed up his passing . for she , and the vast majority of other patient , doctor be there to prolong life and palliate symptom . be this to change , then we would not be doctor in the eye of many , but bringer of death , agent of a state which count its weak member as expendable and worthy of nothing but an early grave . I do not want to be a member of a profession which have that reputation or role " . those be two witness who have write to I . I have take an increase interest in this whole issue of palliative care , and the law frankly — will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? will the hon . Gentleman forgive I if I do not ? I know that many people want to speak . I just want to develop this argument , then I will finish . the law be so unclear . I have talk to a number of palliative care specialist , and they say that we can give as much morphine as we want to a patient and we will not kill they , but there be real doubt in the mind of the public . a lot of the impetus around this debate , and the reason why people in opinion poll be apparently supportive of this measure , be that they be terrify of die in pain . there be no need for this . when I talk to consultant and practitioner in palliative care , they say that they can manage pain . I be strike by a very touching email that be send to I by a constituent , who actually support the Bill on the ground that when his wife be die , and he be beg the doctor in a national health hospital to give she more morphine , the doctor say , " if I do that , I would be break the law . " I can see the Health Secretary be sit here , and I really think that if we be go to have a serious debate about this issue , we need to have something equivalent to a royal commission to determine what doctor can and can not do . it be essential that we really reassure the public . there be tremendous interest in and huge doubt about this issue . many people be conflict , and we have hear many move story about people ' s fear of die in agony , but until we clear this up , I do not think that we can make the progress that this issue deserve . yes , we have to fund our hospice movement seriously . it be very worrying that we be go to fund the NHS to fund death , but that we be not adequately fund our hospice movement . before we take this momentous decision , we have to be realistic about it : if the Bill be to pass at 2 . 30 pm , that would be it . I do not believe that a private Member ' s Bill , which have only five hour of debate and on which many member of Parliament will not be give time to speak , be the right mechanism . in the last Parliament , we discuss a certain subject that we all know about — it be a very different issue . we have hundred of hour of debate , question and score of civil servant crawl over the issue . surely this issue be even more important . surely we should have have more than just two or three week to consider this Bill . we should be look at the detail , because the devil be in the detail in respect of possible coercion , the facility available to the hospice movement and the issue I have talk about , include the lack of clarity in the law as to how we can or can not relieve pain . can we not pause a moment ? those be the practical point that I want to make . this be so important : the future of so many vulnerable people be at stake . I be strike by the comment make early by the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) that we can not consider this issue just in term of individual hard case . we must consider it in term of society as a whole . what sort of society be we ? be we a society that love our NHS , that love life , that love care and that love the hospice movement ? or be we a society that believe that there be despair ? I will vote for hope at 2 . 30 and I will vote against the Bill . I ask the ear , nose and throat nurse I have work with for 20 year about assist dying , and she say it be an essential change . there be no doubt in her mind . like I , she have see the unbearable distress that some head and neck cancer cause , and she know of the very difficult death of some of our patient , despite excellent palliative care . it be this experience that have change my mind . when I be a young doctor , I think it unconscionable , but now I be an old doctor and I feel sure it be the right change . I have see uncontrollable pain , choke and , I be sorry to say , the frightful sight of a man bleed to death while conscious , as a cancer have eat away at the carotid artery . it be call a carotid blowout . I know the terrifying loss of dignity and control in the last day of life . I be speak here of people who be die , not people live well who have chronic or terminal disease . we be talk about people at the end of their life wish to choose the time and place to die . this be not some slippery slope . we be shorten death , not life , for our patient . this be not life or death ; this be death or death . coercion and manipulation have be speak about and be no doubt fear , but the danger of no change to the law be a great fear for those who be die and wish to have choice . the very real fear of loss of dignity and control be at the heart of it . do not underestimate that . there be strict safeguard in this tightly write Bill , and I fervently hope there will be the opportunity to refine they as it progress . assisted dying be already occur in unregulated way , with up to 650 terminally ill people take their own life each year , often in traumatic circumstance , cause additional pain for their love one . the Bill promote freedom of choice at the end of life in a controlled and regulated manner . do my hon . friend agree that legal assist dying would provide essential safeguard where there currently be none ? I thank my hon . friend for that timely intervention . some may say that we do not have the resource to introduce this change , and many may say that we must invest in palliative care , which of course we must . but I see assist die as complementary to , not an alternative to , palliative care . my hon . Friend briefly mention coercion , and the well - hold fear of many of we in the House about the risk of coercion , particularly for vulnerable people . what do he make of the fact that in Washington state , where the relevant law be restrict to terminally ill people like this Bill , last year 59 % of those who go through with an assist death do so because they fear be " a burden " to " family , friend or care giver " ? in Oregon , the proportion last year be 43 % . [ Official Report , 6 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) I respect my hon . friend ' s report of the statistic , about which I have no further information . colleague know the gravity of the law that we be discuss and might feel that the moral weight of such a change be simply too great to bear ; they may fear that our wisdom be insufficient . but I urge we to be brave today and allow the Bill to progress in this new Parliament . finally , a prison chaplain tell I only this week of a gentle old man he meet in prison , serve life for agree against every instinct in a last act of love to suffocate his wife , who be die in uncontrollable agony . we be a compassionate people and we can do much well than that . rise — order . colleague will realise that we have only a few hour to go . without absolute speaking limit , if colleague could keep their contribution to shy of five minute , I will do my good to get in as many speaker as possible . the motive of those propose the Bill be ground in compassion — in the heat of this debate , I want to seriously acknowledge that — particularly the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , who have conduct herself with great dignity throughout . neither side have a monopoly on compassion — I will always be affect by watch my mum suffer at her death at the age I be now — so let we not think badly of one another ' s motive ; let we instead be courteous and let we be curious . my opposition to the Bill be ground in compassion . to legalise assist dying would be to create the space for coercion that would undoubtedly see people die who would not otherwise have choose to do so . there be no safeguard in the Bill that would prevent that . will the hon . member give way ? I have well not . to be fair , no safeguard would be possible , even if we be not go through this hasty process . first , there be the risk of self - coercion . many of we will have hear old relative utter word similar to , " I be a burden to you . you would be well off without I . " we all know reasonably instinctively that people will present it as make a sovereign choice , but it will be a choice bear out of coercion . unless there be a clause in the bill that I have miss to employ mind reader , no amount of doctor , safeguard or bureaucratic mechanism will prevent those who self - coerce from opt to die simply because they assume that no matter what their love one say , everyone would be well off if they be dead . to add to the stat we just hear from the hon . member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , we know that in Canada more than one in three people opt for assist dying give as their reason for choose to die that they feel they be a burden on other . honestly , I do not see how we need any further discussion to push we into the No Lobby than that clear evidence from where it be legal . secondly , there be coercive control . in the last Parliament , we pass groundbreake and long - overdue legislation on domestic violence . as society ' s understanding of that often hide evil have develop , our eye have be open to one horrific factor in particular : that of insidious , manipulative coercive control . thousand of people have be — and be today — victim of those who seek to manipulate their will , take over their life and coerce they into believe that their perpetrator ' s will be actually their will . we all know through our constituency casework of people who have be victim . one common theme be that victim often do not realise that they be be control until long afterwards . it can take year for the penny to drop . I do not need to spell it out , then — do I ? — that for those coerce into choose assist dying , that penny will never drop . they will no long be with we . thirdly , people will choose assist dying because of their pain when they would not do if that pain be properly manage . here be where the evidence from other country become truly disturbing — in fact , terrifying . in the last decade , the country in Europe without assist die increase palliative care investment by over three time more than those that have legalise it . in the United States , those state without assist dying see an increase in the size of their palliative care team that be also three time great than that in state that have legalise it . that be clearly no accident and no coincidence . indeed , the group that have contact I who be most vociferously against the Bill be palliative care doctor . the discussion we be have — and I pay tribute to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for the way that she have conduct it — almost imply that palliative care be of the same excellent standard across the UK . I have to inform the House that it be not , which be a matter of deep regret . I can not stand by the Bill because many vulnerable , marginalised people will be impact by it . I want to support and affirm life , and I want that to be with dignity . I thank the hon . Lady for her important and powerful intervention . those palliative care doctor who have be in touch with I know that to opt for legalised assist dying be to opt , inevitably , to divert resource away from palliative care — that be the evidence . I speak to one of those palliative care doctor this week , who work in a hospice . she say : " the only patient I care for , be those who be die " . we all know what be come . assisted dying mean a shift in focus away from help people to live in dignity and comfort , towards simply help people to die . then , it become a self - fulfil prophecy . let we not kid ourselves : palliative care be a postcode lottery in this country , especially for the poor and the old . if the motivation of those who choose assist dying be to end their pain , we can be absolutely certain that those NHS trust with the weak palliative care offer will be those with the high incidence of people choose to die . in other word , it will not really be their choice at all . an observation make to I by a senior oncologist just last week be that there be few more stressful situation in a person ' s life than to be give a terminal diagnosis — I remember be with my mum as she be give her — and to be tell you be go to die . the oncologist then explain that among terminally ill people there be a vast amount of severe but undiagnosed depression and psychological illness . similar but distinct from the danger of self - coercion , there be nothing in the Bill to safeguard against people who suffer like that from choose to die before their time , yet in so many case it will be people ' s mental health that lead they to choose to die , not their physical condition . we simply can not be all right with that . here we be , on the precipice of agree to sanction and support the death of people in despair . our society have choose a dystopian and contagious path if it choose to facilitate the death of those who have a terminal illness rather than stand with they , weep with they , value they and love they against the desolation that any of we would feel if we be give a diagnosis of that sort . it be no wonder that the Government ' s own suicide prevention adviser be strongly oppose to the Bill . I totally respect that many of my colleague in our corner of the House — my fellow liberal — will take a different view . I be oppose to the Bill because I be a liberal . libertarian believe that personal liberty be so important that there can be no fetter on it . but I be liberal , not a libertarian . I believe that freedom be essential and that the right of the individual underpin a decent society , but my right must be hold in check if they nullify your right . since we know — we really do — that to legalise assist dying be to permit people to die who will self - coerce , as a consequence of manipulative coercive control , outrageously not because of a real , sovereign choice but because of a heartbreake Hobson ' s choice due to inadequate palliative care , I have no right to impose that ultimate and most appalling constraint on the freedom of the most vulnerable in our society . I urge all of we to stand in defence of those most vulnerable people , to defiantly defend their liberty , to make a renew commitment to world - class palliative care and to human dignity , and to reject the Bill . rise — order . in consideration of colleague , please keep speech under five minute . today ' s decision have be one of the hard that I have have to make . in my career in disability law and policy , I choose not to focus on debate about whether disabled people should be bear or whether we should die . instead , I focus on enable disabled people to live well , more fulfilling life . today , I find myself vote in a way that I think I never would . I will vote in favour of move the Bill to the next stage of the legislative process . that have be a difficult journey for I . I have arrive here by look at the evidence , reflect on my own live experience and listen to the many , many constituent who have write to I in support of the Bill , share their compelling and tragic story of death — death which do not come with dignity or respect . in reflect on my own life , one moment from my childhood stand out . when I be six year old , I have major surgery on my hip . I be in body plaster from my chest to my ankle , and in so much pain and require so much morphine that my skin begin to itch . I remember vividly lay in a hospital bed in Sheffield Children ' s hospital and say to my parent , " I want to die . please let I die . " I need to escape from the body I be inhabit . that moment have come back to I all these year later . that moment make it clear to I that if the Bill be about intolerable suffering , I would not vote for it . I have subsequently have a good life , a fulfil life , a life where I have work towards ensure disabled people be value by our society . but that moment also give I a glimpse of how I would want to live my death : just as I have live my life , empower by choice available to I ; live that death with dignity and respect , and have the comfort of know that I might have control over that very difficult time . for so often , control be take away from disabled people in all sort of circumstance . in order to ensure that there be compassionate choice at the end of life , it be right that the Bill be tightly draw around the final stage of terminal illness for adult and include the strong safeguard . the choice of assist dying as one option for adult when face six month ' terminal illness must be set alongside the choice of receive the good possible palliative and end of life care , or it be no choice at all . have analyse the Bill closely , therefore , there be change I would want to see in Committee to strengthen those option and ensure the way that choice be present by medical practitioner be always in the round . People deserve dignity in death , and for those who do not choose to end their life in this way , they and their loved one should feel reassured and safe in the knowledge they will receive the very good of care . I would also want to ensure that the final stage of the Bill properly define " dishonesty " , " coercion " and " pressure " . I think it be necessary to embed mandatory language in the Bill around the need for a code of practice on palliative care , as well as improve the regulation on training for medical practitioner . I trust my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) to champion those amendment and to continue to diligently listen to member , as she have throughout this process . however people vote today in this House — a decision of conscience — it be incumbent on all of we to commit to improve palliative , end of life and adult social care . it must be the start of the work that we do in this place to ensure the very high standard in these area . that will be a very great legacy indeed : give people the dignity they need in the moment of death . for many of we across the Chamber , consider these issue have be extremely hard and upsetting . we have have to go to the very depth of our self to understand what choice we will make today . while we may enter different voting lobby , we leave this Chamber shoulder to shoulder . I know we will all work in our own way to make systemic change to improve the life of our constituent , and people up and down this country . rise — a very considerate five minute — thank you . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will try to keep it brief and stick with procedure . the decision we be take today must be , for most member , one of the most painful decision . it certainly be for I . I be someone who have change his position . I be a believer in the sanctity of life , but I be also an antagonist to torture and misery at the end of life . accordingly , I intend to vote for the Bill on Second Reading . I say to those who have make procedural comment that second Reading be a point of principle , not a point of conclusion . I have change my position because since the scandal of Dr Shipman and the murder he carry out , the behaviour of the health service have change . I have witness , with constituent in particular , any number of people who have die slowly and in agony beyond the reach of palliative care — the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) make the point brilliantly — so that no matter how well we do it , we can not fix that problem . secondly , I be go to disagree with my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) : it be not insult to critique what other who have try this have do . the country that have try this provide a wide range of example and outcome . if on Third reading I think that the outcome we be head towards be Belgium , I will vote against ; and if the outcome be Canada , I will probably vote against . if it be Australia , I will vote in favour . that be what the next stage of this process be about . I say to both the Bill ' s sponsor that it have a number of area that they know I think they have to put right — about a dozen , in truth . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I be afraid not , as I have only five minute . I will pick one of those area , as it be technical and awkward . clause 4 ( 2 ) appear to give doctor the right to initiate the process . but after the " do not resuscitate " scandal during the covid crisis , I do not want that at any price — I do not want the state initiate this process . that be critical for I . I be really make the point that the decision on Second Reading be about principle , not outcome . the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) have say that she will work hard to make the Committee work . I be sure she will , and she may succeed . but I say this to the Government . I understand perfectly well that they be try to maintain a route of strict neutrality , but there be a distinction between neutrality and responsibility . they need to focus on responsibility . this Bill be more important than most of the Bills in their manifesto ; I be not try to be rude . be the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) here ? he get mob over breakfast by people talk about this . More people in the Dog and Duck care about this than they do about most other thing that we be do , so it deserve four day on Report in Government time over the course of several week . we do not need a royal commission . the House can do this , but it need to be give the option . I say to the Government that the path of responsibility be to give we the time to get this right . if we get it right , it will be one of the thing that we can be proud of in the come year . I reiterate that I want the Bill to succeed . it be more important than most Bills that we handle . it can not be deal with in five hour here and a few hour in Committee . I will vote for it today , but I want the Government to help I be able to vote for a good Bill at the end . I ask Members to please face the Chair , so that we can pick they up on the microphone . I be honour to have be call in this debate . it have be move to hear contribution from across the House . feeling have be particularly raw for I , as I witness my close friend Sharon die of cancer over the last few month age just 55 . she have good access to palliative and hospice care , and die at home with her sister and niece . but even with that support , her final day be difficult . her sister write to I : " she be highly distressed , everyday she say she ' d have enough and want to die — it be very undignified for she and it be heartbreaking to observe but be powerless to help . " each story we hear of loss and grief be unique . as legislator , we must consider everyone who will be affect , both directly and indirectly , by a change in the law . the public and the court be rightly look to Parliament to answer the question of whether the provision of assist suicide should be a legal option . it be incumbent on we as parliamentarian to do the job properly . like many other member , I have spend the past week listen to constituent and professional in my Shipley constituency and expert in this place . I have read numerous report and article . as well as the moral and ethical dilemma , there be many complex legal and practical consideration that need careful examination . I take a different view from the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) , who have just speak . I welcome the reassurance from my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) and her commitment that the Bill Committee should take evidence , but I be not confident that a private Member ' s Bill process will be able to adequately address the issue . that be why I have co - sponsor the cross - party amendment , table by my colleague the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , to call for an independent review and a systematic public consultation on these legal change and for an independent assessment of the provision of palliative care . with a background in health and social care , and specifically in ageing , I be particularly mindful of the context of the Bill and I wish to make three brief observation that concern I . first , we have hear many time about inequality in access to palliative and end - of - life care . accord to Hospice UK some 100 , 000 people die each year who could benefit from end - of - life care but do not receive it . those who be non - white and from low socioeconomic background be less likely to get care . unless terminally ill people be confident of access to high quality end - of - life care , how can they make an informed choice about assist die ? I believe that investment in palliative care must come before a change in the law be implement . my second point be about the failure to reform social care . some people have to spend their life saving , include the value of their home , on care . much of the responsibility for provide care fall to family member who fill the gap . old and disabled people with a terminal illness may feel an unspoken pressure to go down the route of assist die to protect their inheritance , or because they do not want to be a burden . there be a real , direct risk of coercion . annually there be 400 , 000 case of domestic abuse against old people in England and Wales . my third concern be that the NHS be on its knee , as outline in the Darzi report , and an impact assessment be need to understand fully the cost of implementation to the NHS . do we have the doctor ? what additional training be require ? what be the opportunity cost of the necessary but lengthy process of establish consent , capacity , and absence of coercion ? without that we risk make die legal , but find that it be available only to those who can pay . I will conclude my remark , respectful of the fact that many colleague want to speak . I recognise that people can benefit from a potential change in the law — people such as my friend Sharon , for whom palliative care be unable to relieve her suffering . however , there be also many who could be put at risk by a change in the law , and other direct and indirect cost and consequence that need to be weigh up . I believe we should adopt the precautionary principle in this case , and without a proper public consultation and a detailed examination , I will be unable to support the Bill today . like many other across the House I come to this debate with personal experience . many of we have be at the bedside of a love one as they have near the end of their life . for I that be on 11 June 2023 , when my dad ' s earthly journey end . terminally ill for five year with a painful , aggressive cancer , he have a faith that sustain he and a health service that seek to support , care , comfort and preserve his life . consultant and medical staff go over and above to ensure that he get every opportunity to see his family , and particularly his grandchild , grow up . do I want to see my dad suffer ? absolutely not . equally , though , those difficult time provide we with an opportunity to care for and express love for a person whose life we value . the root of my conviction be this : life in all its form be of inherent worth and value . while I have come to that conclusion partly because of my faith , like all member across the House I have listen carefully to the evidence in come to my conclusion on the danger that this Bill represent . each individual person be of extraordinary value , not because of their capacity , intelligence or appearance , or for any reason other than that they be human . it be right that we should rage against death , with its suffering and pain , as it be not natural , but the Bill take that rational fear to an irrational and dangerous conclusion . the answer to a fear of death or of die badly , or even a desire for a good death , be not logically to legalise a means of bring about death in a more efficient or sanitise state - sponsor fashion . we be have the wrong debate today . we should be debate how as a society we can improve an individual ' s end - of - life experience through improve investment in end - of - life and palliative care , and the very good medical or hospice facility . I strongly support effort to that end , to improve how we provide for those who be suffer in their final month of life rather than seek to end their life more quickly than be necessary , as this Bill do . tragically , at the moment one in four people do not have access to the care they need at the end of life . many be unable to see their gp and get the pain medication they need as they face their last few month . it be a broken system , and one that the Government have pledge to fix . surely that should be the priority , rather than introduce a state service that end life . we need to debate how to properly fund the healthcare system we have , but the Bill would halt that debate and divert much - need funding for well palliative care into end life , not preserve it . the Bill undermine the foundation on which our NHS be build — to preserve and protect life . it be not about individual pain ; it be about a societal change that would end and devalue life . it put at risk the life of vulnerable and marginalise people across our community , with wholly inadequate safeguard against coercion . as have be the case in every country where such legislation have be introduce , it would see the rapid expansion of eligibility criterion , and it can not protect against the unreliability of a terminal diagnosis . when we look at the complication of the drug use in place such as Oregon , we see that it would not guarantee a good death . death be final . today I have stand up for what be right , tell the truth and warn of the danger of this rush and ill think out Bill . I urge the same honesty from those who support it . this Bill be not the answer to end - of - life care , and that be why I and my Democratic Unionist party colleague will vote against it . I be glad to have the opportunity to speak in this hugely significant debate , and as a co - sponsor of the Bill to support my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) in advocate choice at the end of life . since I come into this place five year ago I have speak many time about assist dying and the desperate need for reform of the law , and I believe this Bill be a landmark opportunity to change the status quo once for all , so that mentally competent terminally ill adult have the right to choose a peaceful , safe and compassionate death . we hold a responsibility in this place to legislate for all people across the United Kingdom — for society . the overwhelming opinion of the public be clear . a poll conduct early this year find that 75 % of people would support a change in the law to make it legal for terminally ill adult to access assist dying in the UK . the current blanket ban on assisted die force terminally ill people to suffer against their will as they near the end of their life , while love one watch on helplessly . some choose to avoid that fate and seek assist death abroad , but that come at a substantial cost of around £ 15 , 000 to travel to Switzerland for that purpose . that highlight systemic inequality , whereby only those with the necessary financial mean have access to a choice over the timing and manner of their death . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will continue , I be afraid . as a humanist , I believe we have but one life and that we should live it well and make it meaningful . I believe that individual should have autonomy in life . similarly , I believe that at the end of life every person should have agency and the right to die with dignity and to a safe and painless death , on their own term , subject of course to strong safeguard . I believe that the Bill contain stringent safeguard . although my humanist belief have contribute to my view , personal experience when young spark my initial question about the manner in which our life end . my grandfather , Harold Hopkins , be an optical physicist and be remember as one of the most innovative scientist of modern time . many of his invention be in daily use throughout the world , include zoom lense , coherent fibre - optic and rod - lens endoscope , which revolutionise modern keyhole surgery . unfortunately , my grandfather be not immune to the grip of a cruel terminal illness , and he sadly suffer greatly in the final week of his life , while battle prostate and secondary cancer , render blind during his final day , which be a cruel irony for a man who do so much to advance optic . but it be the haunted look on my father ' s face when he arrive home have spend the final few day with Harold , who be in terrible pain and suffering before he finally die , that have a lasting impression on I . surely , in a modern society , if we be able to live a good life , we must be able to have a good death . my grandfather be just one of many who have face such a fate . I have hear from many constituent and from other family — many who be here today — who have share their own story of watch their love one die in unnecessary pain and indignity . while many have raise concern around the need for well fund and support palliative care service in our country , I reiterate the point that the Bill do not represent an either / or proposal . as my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley have say over the past few week , at its core this legislation be about not end life , but shorten death . this be fundamentally an issue of dignity , compassion and humanity , and I encourage all member across the House to use their power as elect representative to alleviate the needless pain of thousand of individual and their family by take the first step towards provide choice at the end of life by legalise assist dying . to discuss matter of life and death be to recognise the gravity of one ' s role as a Member of Parliament . the Bill before we seek to shorten the suffering of the terminally ill — those with just six month to live — and no one else . for too many , death be not a singular moment but an excruciating journey of terror and agony as your body turn on you . argument that we must wait for palliative care to improve in our country be a logical fallacy . the Bill do not prevent we from improve our palliative care system , contrary to what have be say today in the Chamber . in evidence to the Health and Social Care Committee , Hospice UK say that : " it would be totally inappropriate for we to suggest or even imply that hospice and palliative care service can somehow address … pain in all circumstance . " imagine you have cancer that day by day be break every individual vertebra in your body , one by one , and there be nothing that can take away the pain — that be how my mother lose her life . her last word be , " I can not go on like this , " and , thankfully for she , there be only a few more day of pain ; however , for other , there will be month more . before they get to that six - month period , people will have suffer year of excruciating agony that palliative care can not resolve . yes , we must improve palliative care , and I will fight for that . argument that this legislation would be the beginning of a slippery slope be not reflect by the majority of legislator , such as Australia and across multiple state in the USA , where such policy have not be expand . again , the Health and Social Care Committee have tell we that where terminal illness be the basis — not suffer — as for this Bill , the law have not change . as a Conservative , freedom , choice and personal responsibility shape my decision making — until those freedom cause harm to other . I do not see the role of legislation as impose moral conviction . it be our job to protect choice . I say to those whose religious belief drive their argument today that I will always defend their right to practise their faith and protect their own life choice . however , support the choice of other do not diminish the principle of compassion ; it recognise respect for individual autonomy . to deny choice to other — especially those with only six month to live , where their personal choice do other no harm — be wrong . to those concerned about the state mandate power to decide who can and can not live , I say that judge already exercise this power . they end live in far more complicated case , such as those of child on life support . on argument around procedure , we all have to be honest with ourselves : this Bill have be read far more vociferously than most Bills that go through this House . Most Bills over the past 20 year have come to Parliament with far few than 14 day to consider they : for the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Bill , we have six day to consider 59 page ; for the Illegal Migration Bill , we have six day to consider far more . we have have sight of this Bill for long than many other . the idea that a private Member ' s Bill be not appropriate be also wrong . social reform come through private member ' Bills : the abolition of the death penalty , the legalisation of abortion and the decriminalisation of homosexuality — all thing I hope this House would unite on . this be the start of the process of debate , and it would be a tragedy if the Bill be defeat today . member should trust I when I say that I learn early in my career that when we hear promise that thing will come later , that be a promise that no action will come at all . the High Court make it clear to my constituent Phil Newby , who have motor neurone disease , that we must make this decision . to those consider abstain because this be so difficult — and I recognise that it be difficult — I say that we must not shy away from it . I ask colleague to vote for the Bill in order to allow a long legislative process to proceed and , together , to commit to shorten the suffering of those who be terminally ill in our society , because they deserve that choice . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) on the way she have conduct this debate . I work in the NHS as a district nurse for 25 year , work with many terminally ill people . I see the whole range of human emotion in that time , from joy to grief — everything imaginable . I be also a mum , a daughter , a sister , a wife and a grandmother . I know how crush it can be when someone we love be terribly ill and how helpless that can make family feel . it be completely understandable that some would want to feel that they be regain some control over their circumstance by pursue an assisted death , but this Bill be not the answer . I simply do not trust that it can be implement ethically or safely . there be too many blind spot , and it be be rush through too quickly and with too little scrutiny . it would place enormous pressure on disabled , elderly and poor people to opt to end their life so as not to be a burden on their love one . the Bill would also do nothing concrete to uplift the hospice and palliative care sector . all that we have have be promise . accord to the Bill , the Secretary of State must ensure that assist suicide be available . there be no accompany duty to provide palliative or hospice care to everyone who need it , leave those essential service heavily dependent on donation and charity . that be simply unacceptable . the exercise of coercion or pressure , which be prohibit by the Bill , be difficult — perhaps even impossible — to detect . family and personal circumstance be complicated . it would take an enormous amount of resource to make this system robust enough to entrust the life of our love one to it . the Bill allow doctor to propose assist die to patient . some of the bad canadian abuse originate that way . for example , a 51 - year - old canadian cancer patient be notoriously offer death instead of surgery . even though our propose system have its difference , this be still a risk that I be not willing to take . the current law present we with a clear boundary that can never be cross . it avoid all slippery slope , with no room for error . assisted suicide legislation would replace that with an arbitrary boundary that be rife for misunderstanding , error and , at bad , abuse . remember : this be all happen in the context of an NHS run into the ground by 14 year of Tory austerity , and the Government have simply not have the time to rectify it . it be not a fair choice as a result . I will therefore be vote against the Bill and will continue to push for improvement in palliative and hospice care . that be the only way to ensure that no one from any community be leave behind . I have know well only one person who commit suicide : my former professor . I learn after his death that he have be haunt by imagine demon for most of his life and , in the later part of his life , hound by heartless human . have assist suicide be available to he , I be sure that he would have die much early . after those demon first visit he , he have a love wife and three daughter , so he have moment of joy , though most of his life be punctuate by pain . I be just as sure , because I know he well , that he would have vote against this Bill today , for all our life be a mix of sorrow and joy . I will not amplify the argument about process , although I think it be immensely naive to assume that this Bill could be change substantially in Committee . as a shadow Minister and a Minister for 19 year , I oversee many Bills in Committee , and I know what committee do . they calibrate , refine and improve legislation ; they do not fundamentally alter the intent vote for on Second Reading . neither shall I talk too much about what happen in other jurisdiction , except to say that it be certainly true that everywhere it have be introduce , assist dying have expand — not always by subsequent legislation , but often through judicial interpretation . the idea that we should put this charming but rather naive faith in the judiciary to make these decision subsequent to the House pass the Bill be just that : innocent — that be the most generous way I can describe it . what I will talk about be simply this : the Bill would change the relationship between clinician and patient forever . it would say to the NHS , " your job be not only to protect and preserve life ; it be sometimes to take life . " I be not prepared for our NHS to be change in that way . beyond that , the Bill would change society ' s view of what life and death be all about . this be not just about individual choice , as hon . member have say in their intervention and speech ; it be about a collective , communal view on how we see the essence of life and death . finally , we have have a civilised debate in this place , but it be very different out there on the mean street , as each and every one of we know . there be many cruel , spiteful , ruthless and unkind people in the world , and there be also many vulnerable and frail people . when those two group collide , the outcome be not good for the second . I fear this Bill . I will vote against it . I will vote for what a politician in another place once call " the audacity of hope " — hope that we can improve palliative care ; hope that we can do well . I fear for the disabled and vulnerable people who would be affect by the provision of this Bill , which — regardless of the good intention of its advocate — I believe will fan the flame of fear . I welcome the contribution to this debate from all side of the House . this be Parliament at its good . I support the Bill and be proud to co - sponsor it . we have all receive email from constituent with harrowing story of the agonising final day and week suffer by love one . I have no doubt that those story will weigh heavily on each of we , however we vote today . fundamentally , I believe that if we be able to safely offer peace and empowerment to those at the end of their life , then we have a moral imperative to do so . we be lawmaker , and I also fundamentally support this change because our current legal framework be simply not fit for purpose . our criminal law be a mess . four former director of Public Prosecutions have tell we that change be need . it be pretty unprecedented for four former director of Public Prosecutions , the sole people who make decision about prosecution in such case , to urge Parliament to take action . in the 2014 Nicklinson judgment , the Supreme Court urge Parliament to take action because the law be not work in this area . the law be chaotic , particularly in how it relate to the argument around coercion . if we vote against this legislation today and it fall , do not think that vulnerable people at the end of their life will not be subject to coercion this weekend and over the come week . the police will investigate , a coroner will undertake an inquest into the circumstance of any suicide and a prosecution may begin , but all these process will occur after the individual have die . this Bill would shift the emphasis of such inquiry to before the event , which be more logical , more rational and more humane . let I quickly deal with the procedural argument . as the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) mention , private Members ' Bills be sufficient to reform our abortion law , abolish the death penalty and change our divorce regime , and a private Member ' s Bill be good enough when the issue be last before the House in 2015 . I have read every single word of that debate , and there be not a single word of opposition to a private Member ' s Bill be the mechanism for such change . since 2015 , there have be Select Committee report and more evidence from around the world , as other jurisdiction move in the direction of assist dying . one begin to wonder whether opponent to change be grasp at procedural straw , rather than take on the principle , as we should at Second Reading . I appreciate that the decision be difficult for colleague and I respect view on all side of the debate , but these moment do not come around often . I urge colleague to seize the moment , shape the world around we and provide for compassion . in the past I have vote against this type of measure , and for one overriding reason : namely , the impracticability of effective safeguard . even if practical safeguard could be erect against external coercion , I have always feel that there be no prospect whatsoever of have effective safeguard against internal pressure on someone to request assist dying or even euthanasia . for example , as we have hear , an elderly person in a care home , know that the legacy they could bequeath to their child be be reduce by ten of thousand of pound every few week , would be highly likely to feel obliged to ask to die . I can not conceive of any safeguard against self - sacrifice of that sort , whether for financial reason or in order no long to be a burden on one ' s near and dear relative and friend . however , there be an additional point that I wish to inject into the debate . in my opinion , the key to this dreadfully difficult conundrum — about end of life care , pain and the possibility of assist dying — lie , or should lie , in the ability of medical personnel to administer effective pain relief even if it shorten the patient ' s remain time . in my view , there should be no bar on the use of painkille medication , if that be the only way to ease human suffering , even if it lead to a speedy death — hence the frequent reference to put die people " on an appropriate pathway . " it be therefore most alarming to I to read a very important paragraph in a letter send to I in favour of change the law and voting for the Bill by my constituent , the distinguished broadcaster Dame Esther Rantzen , in which she explain that doctor no long feel able to follow this humane course of action since the atrocious Harold Shipman case , which be briefly allude to by my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) . if there have be such a change in regulation , as Dame Esther believe , it be imperative that that should be reverse . that be something positive that could come out of the imminent debate . another issue that have be touch on more than once be the uncertainty and the postcode lottery surround effective palliative care . Dame Esther ' s view be that there be some people , who have some condition , for whom palliative care never can be effective . other people express the view that there be always a way in which painkille medication can be use in order to prevent suffering . I suspect the answer to that riddle lie in the fact that that painkille care , in some case , might lead to a shortening of life . therefore , I conclude that there be three issue that should be in our mind . can safeguard be effective ? my answer to that , I be sorry to say , be still no . can pain be alleviate sufficiently by palliative care ? the balance of the argument be in favour of say " probably yes " , but it be too uneven across the country and would certainly need the sort of investment that would be necessary to set up system that would work for assisted dying . above all , have doctor the freedom to administer pain relief that may shorten life ? we need to know the answer to that question , because if , since Shipman , they have be prevent from take such merciful measure , that be a classic example of hard case make bad law . doctor need to be able to humanely ease people on their last journey , and the country need to know where the medical profession stand on that central matter to this debate . after spend almost a decade work to protect woman and child from harm , my focus with any piece of legislation be the potential it create for abuse and coercion . while I would once have be supportive of the principle of assist dying , and might wish that option for myself , I have be increasingly unable to reconcile my desire to safeguard the most vulnerable with put that principle into practice . I be concerned that if the Bill pass we will see people coerce , either by an abuser or by societal expectation , into end their own life . we do not want to think about it , but abuse surround we — 2 . 3 million victim of domestic abuse in the last year . one in six old people experience abuse . the definition of coercive and control behaviour include behaviour that repeatedly put someone down , tell they they be worthless . victim describe this as a " drip , drip " effect , and it go unnoticed . not just because we do not want to think about it , but because it be hard for professional to identify it without proper training and with the lack of specialist support . there be no mandatory training for judge on coercive and control behaviour , nor be there effective training for medical professional . in a 2019 survey , 50 % of healthcare professional say that they do not feel they have receive adequate training to identify a victim of domestic abuse . it be also hard for victim themselves to realise they be be coerce until they have get free . we know that old people , especially those who be disabled , be particularly susceptible to abuse by a family member and less likely to be able to escape their abuser . those who be coerce be often isolate from friend and family . if people be not require to tell friend and family they be opt for assist dying , who will raise the alarm ? how would any concern be report ? will judge be able to investigate the police record of those around a person who have request assist die — family or carer ? I will always remember a conversation I have with a hospital - base independent domestic violence adviser , who be call to the bed of a lady in her 80 in her last day live with cancer . the lady disclose to the idva that she have be abuse by her partner of 50 year , and say " thank you . I have never tell anyone before , but now I be finally free to die , and I be grateful for the release . " we know from the Monckton - Smith report that a third of female suicide could be link to domestic abuse , and from the kill Women campaign that as many as 130 woman each year could be murder by a partner or relative but have their death be record as suicide or accident . every week , we hear of family court judge fail to spot coercive and control behaviour . in one case , a judge find that a man repeatedly call his partner worthless and tell she to die be not control conduct . where be the discretion of gender in the Bill ? out of 60 document case around the world of euthanasia and assist die for people with anorexia , 100 % be woman . I have come to the view that no Bill , however draft , could adequately sift those with a genuine desire to end their own life from those do it for all the wrong reason . for that reason , I will vote against . I thank everyone who have speak so far . this have be a very respectful debate , and I do not think any of we here have not shed tear at the message that our constituent have send we this week . I have receive so many profoundly move letter , postcard , email and other message send to my office , and numerous people have tell I about their personal experience of love one face really hard choice at the end of their life . it be very moving . this be a big decision for we . well - inform public opinion show that a very large majority of people want the option to choose assist die in the circumstance envisage by the Bill , and this level of public support reflect the fact that the law , as it stand , too often force people to endure horrific death . I have hear so many story from constituent of the trauma and pain that they have witness in love one . too many people be affect by the current law in truly painful way , and too many of those who be able to do so now seek unregulated , distressing and unsafe alternative , because there be no legal option . those who wish to end their life at the point when their suffering from a terminal illness become unbearable may act too soon . they may take their own life , and do so before they reach a point at which they require assistance — in secret , leave a legacy of shock and confusion , instead of peacefully plan an ending to their final few month . some of the testimony that I have see from family member and partner who face the consequence of these secret decision be truly heartbreaking , because the current law also make it a prosecutable offence for anyone to advise or assist someone in this horrible situation in any way , thus put at risk anyone who even know . several people have also raise concern about coercion with I , and I have listen very hard . I aim to cast a vote today that will protect people well . the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) make , very well , the point that the Bill will be a clear improvement on the current law in respect of safeguard against potential coercion for terminally ill people , and we should all listen to that argument . like the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , I do have one constructive point to make . I think we should be discuss it during the Bill ' s ensue stage , which I hope we will vote for . it concern the time limit . other jurisdiction already allow for different time limit , or no time limit for terminally ill people , or a separate time limit for a number of well - know , specific neurological disease , in which the period of terrible suffering can be much long than six month . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I have no time . like many other member , my colleague and I have hear many concern express about the availability of palliative care . I hope that we be see the start of a much more open conversation about the practical problem that people face at the end of their life — something we be generally not comfortable with talk about in this country — and about the provision that we do not currently make for people in anything like an adequate way . we must do well and , like other country , make sure that we see improvement in palliative care at the same time as make this change . while we do not have to choose between the Bill and well palliative care , we do have to give die people the right to choose which end be right for they , so please , please , vote for the Bill today . I thank member on both side of the House for the care and consideration that they have give to this debate . if the Bill be give a second reading today , there will be far lengthy scrutiny , but I want to address what I think be a bit of a misconception about it , namely the idea that patient take the decision to die and doctor assess capacity , coercion and consent be somehow new . we have hear the word " Rubicon " . there seem to be an idea that this be a completely new sort of decision , and that this be something unusual and outlying in medical practice . I want to challenge that , because , actually , patient , doctor and indeed High Court judge be already make life - and - death decision every day . as my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) say , in this case we be actually talk about death - or - death decision . let we take the example of withdrawal of treatment . one of my close family member who would not be cover by the Bill ' s eligibility criterion starve herself to death through withdrawal of treatment . she have be unwell for many decade with a condition that would have eventually kill she . at one point she become unable to swallow . for many year she have rely on artificial nutrition , and when the type of artificial nutrition she need change to a more invasive process , she say , " enough ' s enough . " as a mentally competent adult under the current law , she be able to take that decision . People be already legally able to die early through withdrawal of treatment . I emphasise that she would not have be eligible under the criterion of the Bill , and I have no idea what she would have choose if she have have a choice , but the fact remain that her capacity be assess by a doctor and she be allow under the current law to die early . the BMA have tell we that it regularly assess for capacity , coercion and consent in , for example , abortion care and — as in the example of my relative — die through withdrawal of treatment . the Bill and the safeguard it would put in place would give a strong framework of protection than the exist law . under the Bill , two doctor would have to test for capacity , coercion and consent . that would have to be review by a High Court judge and pause for reflection be build into the process . if it do get to the point of an assist death , the patient themselves must administer the approve substance . let we be clear about who the Bill be for . the eligibility criterion be extremely narrow — some have argue that they be too narrow . the Bill be for mentally competent adult who be near the end of their life . they be die , and they be die soon . many people with a terminal illness will have a perfectly ordinary death manage perfectly well by palliative care . but we have hear in recent week — over many year , in fact — about the people who do need the Bill : the people for whom even the good palliative care simply do not work ; those for whom merely the option of an assist death give they peace and comfort and a chance to enjoy the rest of their life without fear the manner of their death . with the safeguard contain in the Bill , who be we to deny they that peace ? who be we to decide what they must bear as they die ? we have the power through a robust legislative process to prevent human suffering . good palliative care and assist dying be not at odd . they be not in conflict . they both aim for the same thing : a good death , surround by people you love , with minimal pain and without fear . today , we can vote for that in the sure knowledge that if the Bill pass its Second reading , it will undergo further intense scrutiny to ensure that it be a good law that work as it be intend to do . this be the start of a legislative process , not the end . I urge colleague across the House to vote yes . I want to talk about two aspect of the Bill : what it could have do in term of safeguard but do not ; and what it do not do but could never resolve . on the first point , the safeguard — in particular the legal and judicial one — be grossly inadequate . bad law on trivial thing be bad enough — I have see a lot of that in my time in the House — but bad law on matter of life and death be unforgivable . we have speak about the role of doctor ; let we think about the role of judge . the test to be apply be a low one : the civil law threshold , which be a balance of probability . this mean that a judge could see real risk of coercion and still sign off an individual for assisted death . if the threshold of 50 % or more be not reach , the judge would sign off the individual . the next of kin be not inform . there be no right of appeal , which be extremely unusual in english law , and the process be conduct in secrecy . it could be do on paper alone . transparency be critical to the law . it be one of the old principle in our english legal system . as Jeremy Bentham say more than a hundred year ago , evil can arise in secrecy , and publicity be at the heart of justice . this be not a transparent process and that leave it woefully open to abuse . secondly , all of we in this House want to believe that the law that we pass be final , full stop , the end . that be not the case . I worry — in fact , I be certain — that as night follow day this law , if pass , will change ; not as a result of the individual in this Chamber or the other place , but as a result of judge in other place . we have see that time and again . it may be on either side of the debate , but it will happen . if pass , the Act will be subject to activist judge in Strasbourg . they will change it fundamentally and we have to be prepare for that . I do not want to see that happen . my last point be not about how we can improve the Bill ; it be about something that we can never resolve as a House . the Bill be not so much a slippery slope as a cliff edge . when we walk out of this Chamber , or out of the gate of this building tonight , we will , in a way , walk into a different country if the Bill pass . there will be different conversation around kitchen table . there will be different conversation have by couple lie in bed at night , or on quiet country walk where people talk about difficult thing . they will not be conversation that make our country a well place . more important , there will be people who do not speak about these thing at all . there will be imperceptible change in behaviour . there will be the grandmother who worry about her grandchild ' s inheritance if she do not end her life . there will be the widow who rely on the kindness of stranger who worry — it prey on her conscience . there will be people — we all know they in our life — who be shy , who have low self - esteem , who have demon within they . I know those people . I can see they in my mind ' s eye . they be often poor . they be vulnerable . they be the weak in our society . and they look to we , to Parliament , to represent they , to support they , to protect they . in their interest , I be go to vote against the Bill today . sometimes we must fetter our freedom . we the competent , the capable , the informed sometimes must put the most vulnerable in society first . I start by commend the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) for outline some of the complication with the legislation as it stand . I also put on record my admiration for my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) , who have , in my opinion , be disgracefully single out in comparison with other for her view of the Bill . the Bill could be the most consequential piece of legislation that have be consider during my time in this House , and be at the heart of the matter of why I come into politic . many member have speak about coercion and about provide a voice for people who often do not have one . it be that principle which have guide my decision to oppose the Bill . I know there be sincerely hold belief on both side of the debate . they can seem completely at odd with each other , but it be my firm view that everyone speak today share the same goal : a more compassionate society in which everyone can live and die with dignity . but true compassion should have equality at its heart . it be for this reason that I can not support the proposal as they stand . we must recognise the hard truth that health inequality be wide and persistent . we know that black and minority ethnic disabled people have far bad health outcome than the national average . I see that at first hand when care for my mother , who suffer with sickle cell anaemia . as a teenager , I would be by her side when she be in excruciating pain , explain to a doctor who would not believe she when she tell he that she need life - save medication . sadly , that be still the reality today . I be remind of the death of Evan Smith on 25 April at North Middlesex university hospital . Evan suffer from sickle cell too . he be in so much pain that he have to ring 999 from his hospital bed , because he be deny oxygen and basic care by the doctor . put simply , we should be help people to live comfortable , pain - free life on their own term before we think about make it easy for they to die . colleague will be aware of clause 15 of the Bill , which outline the provision for sign by proxy . I be worried that this could create issue for vulnerable group who be more prone to coercion by family member . as many member have say , assess beyond doubt whether someone have be put under pressure or coerce would be difficult . if this legislation be pass , even the legal expert seem to be in disagreement on this , so I do not believe that there have be enough scrutiny . the risk of coercion will be high for some of the most disadvantaged people in our community . as a society , we risk push people to seek an early death . I can not , in good conscience , support this . my late mother live with chronic illness all her life , and I know that one day her pain would be too unbearable for she , but she do not let that limit she . she want to live . I do not believe that the Bill would protect the wish of people in her situation , because freedom in death be possible only if we have have freedom in life . how can we possibly be satisfied that this Bill will deliver equality and freedom in death when we do not yet have it in life ? if colleague continue to work with I , I will try to get in as many people as possible . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Dirprwy Llefarydd . I think the starting point for many of we today be how to resolve the dilemma of what we want for ourselves against the fear of enable potentially terrible consequence for other . there be a rational fear of the reality of coercion , what drive decision within family and what individual feel be good for their family . there be a rational fear of how institutional pressure , lack of resource and , appallingly , the culture in the NHS might ramp up the convenience of death as an affordable option . this be not a new fear . the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) mention Baroness Neuberger ' s review of the Liverpool care pathway , which say : " in order that everyone die in the acute sector can do so with dignity , the present situation have to change . " that be in 2013 . we know , in the aftermath of covid , how little have change . death as an institutional convenience have never be , and never will be , right . it be our duty to demand good palliative care and address the institutional and resource barrier to it , but that be not a licence to sidestep today ' s moral question . the people of England and Wales now expect we as legislator to provide an answer in principle . it be our duty to provide that answer not only in principle , but in process . with that in mind , I will support the Bill on Second Reading if there be a guarantee of sufficient scrutiny to stitch together a complete garment out of what be presently thread and patch that could , as we have hear , be rent asunder in court . if Committee scrutiny can not make the Bill robust , I will reconsider my support in future vote . surely this House can ensure that there be both cross - party and small - party representation on the Committee , rather than conventional party proportionality — of course , today we have a free vote . the implication for Wales , where health be devolve , cry out for proper consideration . I support the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) in her concern about the Sewel convention and the need for a legislative consent motion in the Senedd . these concern be equally true not just for Wales but for remote and deprived community where ill and die people already suffer disproportionately inadequate health service . to close , I credit Iola Dorkins of Morfa Nefyn whom I have know for over 30 year and who be presently die of motor neurone disease . she wear a brace that her husband have adapt to make more comfortable . today , she be on respite in a hospice in Holyhead , which be 50 mile away from her home . that be the reality of people ' s life as thing stand . we need a change in the law . I be one of those medical practitioner , sometimes know as a doctor . I have be a gp for 30 year , and every year I look after four or five case relate to palliative and terminal care , so I have a lot of experience in this area . I would like to make some quick observation . first , a lot of patient who be die of cancer ask whether we can curtail their life and finish it a bit early . that be a very common thing that they ask . I have have two patient go to dignita on their own , without family member , because the family member be fearful that they would be arrest on their return . we have be discuss give a double dose of morphine . I think that almost all doctor in terminal care have probably do this — double the dose of morphine know that it might curtail the patient ' s life . that be a big fudge . it put I in a very vulnerable position . we need to resolve that . I think we be get a bit confused between palliative care and assist dying . a lot of people who receive excellent palliative care still request assist dying . they be not mutually exclusive . I totally support what everyone be say about develop palliative care , because that be really important , but that should not go instead of assist dying . the thing go together . assisted die be one of our tool in palliative care , as I see it go into the future . I have a couple of point about coercion , which people like I need to assess . if someone say that they feel like a burden , that be immediately not a good reason to approve assist dying . doctor be train in assess capacity , as have be say , but we be also train in try to find out the reason someone want to end their life . I think it be judge doctor harshly to say that they will not spot coercion . interestingly , the only change in Australia be that they find that the judiciary review do not add much to the process . otherwise , there do not seem to be a slippery slope , as long as the legislation be carefully do . the hon . member open by refer to himself as a doctor and medical practitioner . perhaps he could help with the difficulty I have with the Bill , which I would dearly like to support . there be provision in it that allow the Secretary of State to bring forward regulation so that the independent doctor can be an alternative medical practitioner . there be also a section that make the court look like an optional process , so I do worry that there be not protection in the Bill for two doctor . perhaps he could help with that . I do think it be right for this Bill to require two doctor and a judiciary review , because this be new legislation and we must be sure that it be safe . these safeguard be incredibly important . I will finish simply by say that have be a doctor all my life , I have try to empower patient to make their own decision over their healthcare , and this be a great opportunity to do that . I have one patient who have a terminal diagnosis and hang himself . the family be devastate . it be a horrible way to die . I feel that we have fail as a medical profession . let we not fail as a Government , a judiciary and the Houses of Parliament . please support the Bill . how do you want to die ? how do you picture your own death ? it be a question we rarely ask ourselves , but one that every one of we will face . for I , I hope it be with peace , surround by love one , free of pain and content with a life well live . that be the gold standard . good palliative care strive to make that ideal a reality . let I state unequivocally : we need to support palliative care . however , today ' s debate be not about whether we support palliative care , but about what happen when we can not provide a solution . what happen when palliative care do not or can not work ? the truth be that palliative care have limit . let we consider the case that keep doctor and surgeon awake up at night — the like of the inoperable neck cancer , erode away into the carotid artery . it be a literal bloody time bomb , and no one know when it will go off . what be modern medicine ' s answer to that ? keep dark towel nearby for the blood , and counsel a partner or family member on what it be like to find someone bleed out . there be no cure , and no respite . what would you do ? currently , for such patient we can offer no agency over their end ; no alternative to that terrify death . can we truly say that that be compassionate ? should we not even offer those face such suffering at least the chance of dignity in their death ? that be what the Bill stand for . to reject it on Second Reading be not just to vote against assisted dying but to silence the debate for another decade and to say that the status quo be acceptable , and it be fine for those who can afford it to fly to another country to end their suffering while other be leave here without recourse . I can not accept that . what be this House for if not to empower people , and to give they the tool to shape their life and , yes , their death ? today , we have the chance to put compassion into action — to offer choice to those who be face the ultimate suffering . I hugely respect member who take a different view . I simply and gently say to they that there be consequence , too . those intractable case will still be there with no solution , no choice in this country and no resolution to their suffering . to those who understandably be a little unsure , I say that if they have doubt about safeguard or the implementation — I agree that some be valid — they should let the debate continue . for some member it will a bridge too far ; if necessary they should reject the Bill on Third Reading , but to stop it now be to stop the conversation entirely , take the choice off the table and remove a die person ' s agency . when all be consider , I ask again : how do you want to die ? the Bill ask we to make a profound and irreversible decision on the principle of our health service and end of life care . with end of life care fund too often on a shoestring for many , the Bill take our focus to end life , not improve living as life draw to a close with terminal illness . I believe it pose significant risk . our wide societal and cultural norm will be change forever . those who refuse to acknowledge that prospect now do so with the benefit of thing as they be now . my point be that this concept change immediately today if this Bill be pass . the safeguard may sound rigorous on paper , but the strained state of our NHS mean that many patient do not have a consistent relationship with a name doctor . we be attribute to health centre nowadays , not name doctor . someone ' s consideration of this decision could depend on which doctor they see — one who raise assist dying as an option , versus one who refuse . that be a deeply troubling prospect . the ideation of assist dying will become a ballot . we know our GPs have a range of view on assist dying , so we can not deny that who someone end up see with their terminal illness might be how they end up . that could be at the doctor ' s , possibly in the presence of a love one who be under strain and in need of respite themselves , and the first suggestion be the beginning of a journey towards , yes , assist die . that be before we consider the force of marketing and commercialisation , and the industry that will spring up if the Bill proceed and be sew into our NHS . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not . it be possible that we can not imagine be the victim of coercion , or that as mps our agency be so baked in to our experience of living , that we can not envisage a scenario where those who already claim to feel unseen be direct towards meet their end soon than it otherwise might have be . our casework from constituent be already full of people struggle to access the right that we have enshrine in law — access to justice , health , education support , the disaster in our special educational need system — and of victim often of state neglect or state coercion , and the failure of safeguard that be once support on paper and pass into law . disability right group and advocate have raise their voice , want we to talk about the danger of normalise assist dying . for many the Bill represent not a choice but a principle shift that undermine the value we place on protect the vulnerable . it fall to we as the strong to stand up and vote against the Bill . pass the Bill today will not improve palliative and hospice care . my belief be that it will forfeit it . the end of life be complicated ; end of life care often be not complicated enough . on reflection , my mother - in - law deserve a frank , trust conversation about the risk of secondary illness and amputation that would follow with the automatic cancer treatment that she be give in her final month of life . we should expect more agility from our NHS , and while die be the ultimate binary experience , end of life care should be more sophisticated and more personalised . shorten those expectation with a system that endorse assist dying would forfeit that too . finally , as legislator our responsibility be to protect the most vulnerable and consider all eventuality . we disagree on slippery slope argument , but if the Bill proceed it will be a moment of no return , and that be why I be not prepared to support it . it be a privilege to speak in this debate , and the way in which the House have conduct itself on both side of the argument be a credit to this place . I stand here not only as a medical practitioner who work as a surgeon for about a decade , but also as a healthcare barrister , so I have look at the debate from both side of the argument . I have be deeply move by some of the story I have hear about patient who be face a terminal illness . I be also instruct by my own experience — my personal experience of my relative , and of those patient whom I fail . I fail because I do not give they the good death that they deserve , despite the very good effort of palliative care . it be true that we can improve the palliative care offering in this country , but it be not a binary choice . it be not a choice of palliative care or assist die ; it be a choice about someone have an option over how they want autonomy over their body at the end of their life . I understand the concern raise in this House — I genuinely do — but this be not the point to cancel the debate . this be the point to engage in the debate . this be the point at which we move it forward , so that people can contribute to it in Committee and say how thing can be improve , and so that we can work together to make a societal change , improve our society and support those who want that ultimate choice in those last day . I be honour to rise to lend my support to the Bill , and I be proud to support my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) as one of the Bill ' s co - sponsor . datum show that in my city of Liverpool 74 % of people be in favour of assist dying . I have be privileged to correspond with and meet so many of my constituent who have share with I their view and personal story , span both side of this important debate , and I thank they all . as we have hear today , there be strongly hold belief on both side of the House . I absolutely respect those with view that differ from my own , and hope that they respect my view , even if we disagree . since long before I enter this place , I have be an advocate of assist dying , with the appropriate safeguard , to alleviate unnecessary suffering . my own mum care for my dad during his cruel battle with cancer . sadly , not even the good palliative care could provide he with a good death — and I do believe that there be such a thing as a good death . at its core , the Bill be sensible , safe and compassionate . but above all else it place human dignity at its heart . in respect of palliative care , the Bill be not an either / or . along with many other campaigner for assist dying , I fully support improve palliative care . it have be prove that end of life care have improve in several country because of assisted die reform . I hope that , if the Bill pass , the UK will also belong on that list . palliative expert , include those oppose to law change , admit that some people ' s suffer be beyond the reach of even the good palliative care . I do not believe that if the Bill finally become law , it will create a slippery slope . as the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) eloquently say , terminally ill adult in Oregon have have a legal option for assist die for more than 25 year , and not once have it be expand to include other group . will the hon . Lady give way ? no . I be sorry , but I will not . every year , around 650 terminally ill people take their own life , and countless other who be more affluent make the choice of the long , arduous journey to Switzerland , all without any protection in place . I do not want choice to be available only to those who can afford to pay . that be not just or equitable . finally , just like with many other private member ' Bills that have go before and look to bring about social reform — such as those on abortion , divorce and the decriminalisation of homosexuality — this be an historic moment and an opportunity , if take , to give real dignity to those who have reach the end of life and want a choice , while also respect the view of those who do not want to take that choice . this be a humbling subject to speak about . I put on the record my thank to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for bring this important issue before the House . I have witness at first hand the cruelty that a terminal diagnosis bring . as the son of a single mother , my grandparent be like second parent to I . each struggle with their own incurable cancer diagnosis . at Christmas dinner in 2019 , my nan , who could no long eat and be clearly in a great deal of pain , turn to I and say she be " ready to go " . " it ' s time now , " she add . that night , I reflect on how , as a society , we shy away from discuss death . we park it away and prioritise more immediate , palatable subject , but it impact member of our community day in , day out — from terminal diagnosis to medical treatment and , ultimately , their final day . this really matter to I . in my maiden speech , I pledge to campaign for people to have great control in their final day and to afford those with terminal diagnose the right to end their life in dignity . this be not an argument against palliative care — some wonderful Macmillan nurse make my nan ' s final month as comfortable as possible , and I absolutely agree with the many member who have raise the issue today that we need to do more to support our palliative care sector — but good palliative care and a dignified end of life be not mutually exclusive . nor do I seek to control those who have strong religious belief . those who believe that only God can take life have the complete freedom to wait for that moment . but that be their choice . [ interruption . ] I be not take any intervention . many have legitimate concern about safeguarding . of course , the most vulnerable should not be coerce into make a decision . however , this Bill introduce specific offence for this . indeed , combine with sign - off by two independent doctor , judicial oversight and a period of reflection , this mean there would be robust mechanism to protect the most vulnerable . will my hon . friend give way ? I be not give way . these detail be vital , but so be our humanity . be with my nan in the warmth of her home , as she be surround by her love family after month of excruciate pain and no hope , I know there and then that she should be able to choose her time to say goodbye to her family . like so many other , she have have enough . an understanding and compassionate society should not stand in the way of her right to choose . member can see the profound impact this have have on I and my belief in the importance of end of life care and choice . it have enable I to understand a crucial distinction at the heart of this emotive debate . this be not about shorten life ; it be about shorten death . I urge those member who support the principle of this Bill , but who be concerned about the specific of the safeguard , to support it on Second Reading . further debate can be have in Committee , if hon . member feel that change be require . this Bill provide the choice to shorten death , which be a right that an empathetic and considerate society should afford its citizen . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for how this debate have be conduct . yesterday , we bury Tony Warr , a GMB officer and a really good friend . he be diagnose with prostate cancer . he beat it once , but it take he in the end . early this week , the cancer community lose Nina Lopes . she have stage 4 triple - negative breast cancer and be give six month to live in 2018 . six month become six year , and she teach we how to dance through she @ frodayss account . as we have hear , it be not an exact science when someone be give a prognosis of six month to live . as a patron of Black Women rise , a cancer charity that support black and minoritise woman through their cancer journey , someone who have be give six month to live recently tell I , " I have have a good life , and I be ready to go . " six week later , they be now fight to live . the thing be , if we have focus only on the fact that she be ready to go and want to die , it would have all be very different . as we have hear today , there be part of the law that need change around coercion , and around doctor be able to help people with their end of life treatment . however , I believe those safeguard and discussion can be separate from assist dying and assist suicide . I do not see why we need to have a combine discussion . everybody have the right to die with dignity and compassion . whether or not this Bill progress today , I hope those conversation will continue . after all , we be legislator , and we have the ability to do that . eighty per cent of my constituent be against this legislation , and I will be vote against it . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . the spirit in which this debate have be conduct today be a tribute to her leadership on this issue . this debate have be harrowing for all of we . however , to we fall the responsibility and the privilege of make this decision on behalf of those who go through experience so harrowing that I do not think any of we can imagine they , even though we have hear their tale — I know that I can not . until recently , I put it to the back of my mind that I have actually be in the situation of wait to find out whether I would have a terminal diagnosis . I be lucky , as it go the other way . I do not know what I would have want but , as I wait , I think about all the thing I want to do and might be deny . People with a terminal diagnosis think about what they plan to do with their life , such as see their child and grandchild grow and marry . when we come here today , we be all aware of that , and we think seriously about the implication and the need for palliative care , but it be not our job to say that we should not do this because palliative care need to be improve and because the NHS can not cope . our job be to say that we need to improve palliative care so that the NHS can cope , and so that we can do this . on the safeguard that be need and include in the Bill , I believe they be there . for those with religious belief that mean they can not countenance the Bill , I understand and respect their concern , but I would not be stand here if I be not convince that in this Bill we have the good opportunity to provide a choice safeguard by medical and legal professional and protect from that slippery slope . it happen in Canada because they do not have " terminal diagnosis " in the definition of the Bill from the beginning , but we do . if we vote the Bill through , it will go on to have the further and tough level of scrutiny that every piece of legislation in this place and the other place must go through . I respect everyone ' s concern and belief , but I also ask they , and all hon . member , to respect those who have already be deny so much in their life — those thing I say they might want that they might be deny . we have a choice today : we can lead a national conversation that examine the issue before all of we , dissect the Bill line by line and check its effectiveness , or we can vote to close it down today , and then the country and the family who be suffer will be deny the light they want to see throw on the issue and the voice they want their love one or perhaps themselves to have . many of we have watch love one die difficult death , and we have over the past few week , month and year in politic hear harrowing tale and speak to family who have have no choice but to watch their love one pass in the most harrowing of circumstance , or make an expensive — for many , prohibitively expensive — trip to dignita alone . I can not help about those thing they have be deny by the cruell of fate , but surely we can not deny they choice at end of life . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for the incredibly sensitive and thoughtful way she be conduct the passage of the Bill , consult widely with terminally ill people and their family , medical staff , lawyer , faith leader and those on both side of the debate . I have two very personal story about why I support a change in the law . last year , my dad ' s health take a turn very much for the bad . he have sepsis , kidney failure and heart disease and have live with Addison ' s disease for almost 50 year . he be give the dreaded news that he only have a few month leave to live . I would not have wish his last few week upon anyone . he be in agony and suffering — his breathing be difficult and he be in such pain . I struggle to see he suffer so much , but the nurse , doctor , carer and my incredible step - mum be all without fault and , thankfully , his palliative care be excellent . he be able to die at home with I , my sister and my step - mum by his side . see he suffer so terribly convince I that we need a change in the law so that people who be terminally ill have a choice . my second story be from Australia where my brother live . my wonderful sister - in - law Kelly sadly die of liver cancer that develop into bone cancer . she have a fractured left arm , pelvis and sacrum , and have cancer in her spine . at 54 , Kelly be far too young to die . her cancer be particularly painful and unforgiving . as she live in Victoria , she be able to register for assist dying . for she , it be incredibly comforting to know that if , and only if , she need to , she could stop the suffering . she do not need it in the end , but she do have the option . in her darkest day — her fearful day — that bring she and my brother incredible peace of mind . I hear similar story of suffer in the hundred of email send to I by constituent over the course of the past few month . People want and deserve access to both the good palliative care and a choice if they be terminally ill . the protection and evidence underpin the Bill be strong . I be there for my dad ' s final week when he be in so much pain , and I be there right at the end hold his hand . what a privilege to be with he at the end and to see he through . in memory of my dad and of Kelly , I support the Bill and urge all those across the House to support it , too . this be not an easy subject , nor should it be , because this be a matter of the taking of human life — the taking of human life , sanction by the state . our nation , through many wonderful charity and through Government , reach out compassionately to those who be threaten suicide . they be urge to use the service of the Samaritans and to get all the help they can . I can not square the circle where the state would then move to itself sanction suicide — indeed , to facilitate and , in fact , to promote suicide . and to do that in respect of those who be intrinsically the most vulnerable in our society . anyone who get a diagnosis of terminal illness be , by reason of that , obviously vulnerable . many , in consequence , suffer depression and other difficulty , so they be among the most vulnerable in our society . be vulnerable , they be among those most liable to fall under the foul influence of coercion . coercion come in many form . anyone who have listen to domestic abuse case will know that it can be very insidious , invasive and persuasive , because the coercer have the constant ear of those they wish to coerce . add into that mix the fact that that person might feel a burden . we have all hear old people say , " I be a burden on society . I be a burden on my family . " even when they be tell , " no , care for you be not a chore , but a privilege , " they still think they be a burden . if in that background — that matrix — there be still the pernicious influence of coercion , then the thought that people reach a reason , consider , independent opinion be a fallacy . it be those people that this House should be protect above all , but this Bill do not protect people in that situation . oh , we be tell , " two doctor and a judge " . the judge do not have to , but he might decide to hold Zoom call with the applicant , but he be not to know if sit in the corner of the room , out of camera shot , be the coercer . where be the protection in that ? I say to the House that this issue cut to the very quick of our fundamental duty to be the protector of the most vulnerable . there be no part of the state ' s function to be promote or assist the end of life for people who could be in that condition , and we will never know how many be in that condition , so I can not and will not vote for the Bill . it be an honour and a privilege to speak in the debate and to follow so many hon . member who have make such powerful contribution . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) — no long in her place — for all her work on the Bill ; colleague from across the House who have work together so collegiately ; my constituent who have write to I in their hundred ; and the expert who share their view with we . everybody in the Chamber want a good death , but at the moment palliative care across the UK be chronically underfunde , mostly pay for with money raise by charity and a postcode lottery . I pay tribute to all the hospice that be work around the clock and do an amazing job on very stringent budget , especially St David ' s Hospice and the Hospice of the Valleys , which do amazing work . however , we have to remember that although we be talk about people with very powerful story — some of whom be here today — we legislate for all , and that mean ensure that our legislation be safe and future - proof . I have concern about the Bill on issue such as presume consent . my worry be that if the door be open with this Bill , it will then be widen , as it have be in place such as the Netherlands , Belgium and Canada . these thing will happen . More than 65 private Member ' s Bills be pass in the last Parliament . not one of they have more than one sit in Committee , where the average length of debate be 35 minute ; and just over a quarter have any amendment make to they at all . my hon . friend the hon . member for Spen Valley have say that she be willing to extend it , which I welcome ; I will be press she on that to ensure it be safe . if the House vote to carry the Bill forward — I will be vote against it — scrutiny will be crucial at all point of its passage . we have talk about terminal illness today , but intractable pain be something that people live with every day . that be another issue . in my 30 year as a physiotherapist , I have see good death and bad death . we all want to ensure that we get the good for our constituent , so we need to ensure that end of life care be sort . this have be a good debate , because we have talk — I have certainly talk to my family . my lovely mum of 89 , who be disabled , housebound and widow , say , " it ' s all very well talk about assisted dying , but we need to talk about assisted living as well , because that be most important . " Quality of life be crucial here . we need to ensure that we be here to legislate for all , which be why I will vote against the Bill today . I be grateful for the opportunity to explain . I acknowledge the importance of this debate and thank the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for bring it forward . although I will be vote against the Bill , I still think this be an important discussion to have , not least because many of my constituent believe that it be the right thing to do . of course , there be also many who feel that it be not the right thing to do . we have show the very good of what Parliament can do here today . I come to my conclusion not because of some sort of zealotry or evangelism . I completely acknowledge that there be people who go through very difficult situation where they lose their normal faculty and be in immense pain . however , we need to be clear about what we be discuss today : we be talk about wholesale change to how the state deal with death . that be really important . the Bill would place people , society and the medical profession in a number of scenario , and put at great risk some of our most vulnerable people . that be part of the reason I will vote against it today . the slippery slope argument be valid in term of the risk the legislation produce . we be talk about medicalise death , place an undue burden on our health professional and legitimise a role for the state in the death process . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not give way at this moment . I have yet to be convince that the legislation have sufficient safeguard in place . on slippery slope , take Canada as an example : there , someone do not even have to have a terminal or fatal illness now ; mental illness will be an acceptable reason for assist suicide in 2027 . even though it do not start that way in Canada , that Pandora ' s box have clearly be open , and we risk embark on that route today . the hon . member for Spen Valley have say that there be almost a guarantee that this situation will not change , but she can not guarantee that future Parliaments will not change the goalpost on this matter . the slippery slope argument be about exactly that : when we embark on this journey , that be where we may end up , as the goalpost start to move . I be conscious of time , so I will end my comment shortly . we have have lot of conversation about the private Members ' Bills process , and the hon . Lady can not guarantee that there will be sufficient scrutiny and safeguard . we have not have enough impact assessment or public consultation , and there have be very limited time to look at this piece of legislation . we be at serious risk of pass something that will do immense harm . I worry that in the future we will look back at this , after there have be abuse or coercion of some of the most vulnerable people , and we will come back to the House to discuss the damage that we have cause today . rise — on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your guidance on correct the record . I say in my speech that I have consult with the high level of the judiciary and the medical profession . [ Official Report , 29 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 1019 . ] I have receive correspondence from the Judicial Office and wish to clarify my early comment . although I have speak to lawyer and judge , I should not have imply that the serve judiciary have in some way indicate their agreement with the Bill ; they have not . the serve judiciary have be very clear that they have make no public comment about the Bill one way or the other . I apologise if I imply anything to the contrary . I thank the hon . Lady for correct the record . I rise to support this incredibly important Bill . like many hon . member , I have be contact by hundred of constituent on both side of the debate . I have be move by their personal story , which bring home the impact that this legislation could have on they and their family , and I want to put on record my thank to everyone who have contact I . I fundamentally believe in the right to choose at the end of life , and that be what the Bill be about : give die people a choice on how they die . anyone who do not want an assisted death can choose not to have one , and anyone who want the reassurance of an option have it . my constituent ' story and the story share by hon . member today have show I that it be truly unacceptable to maintain the status quo . without a change in the law , terminally ill people will continue to face the end of their life with a very limited range of option . some will travel abroad for help to die , but that be only an option for those with the financial mean to do so . choice at end of life should not be an option only for those who be financially stable or desperate . death should be peaceful and pain - free , and the Bill give we the opportunity to make that a reality . there be no doubt in my mind that the Bill , so carefully consider by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , would be an improvement for the life and liberty of my constituent and those across the UK who be terminally ill . I urge member to give it a second reading today . I want to end with the word of one of my constituent , who write : " we have some amazing care giver in this country who provide the most compassionate care in the most difficult of circumstance & that give great comfort . but I feel no - one should be force to know how the book end when they be only part way through it without have the choice of put it down and choose one with a well ending . " for the final Back - Bench speech , I call Vikki Slade . we do not need to choose between palliative care and support those who want to make their death well . it be so fantastic to hear member from every part of the Chamber with a share commitment to fund more palliative care , and I hope that the Secretary of State and his team hear that and will go far , know that they have our support in invest more . but until they do , we can not condemn those who be at the end of life to terror , loneliness and be force into horrible circumstance . I have be concern by some of the comment in the debate , so I re - read the Bill as I sit here . it have be suggest that mental health condition would be include , but they would not — under clause 2 ( 3 ) . it be also suggest that people might not be offer surgery or other treatment , but they must , under clause 4 ( 4 ) . it be also worth note the suggestion that a person be coerce could be protect by disclose to the very family that might be coerce they . the provision for a witness in clause 5 ( 2 ) ( c ) ( ii ) and the period of reflection would allow the independent person to be present at the appropriate time . I have already share publicly my own family ' s death journey — and I wear they on my jacket — but today be not about they . today be about all those people who need this Bill . last night I read the book " die smile " , about Nigel ' s journey to dignita . it end with his final journey and a Facebook post , prepare before he make that agonising 20 - hour journey to Switzerland with his wife and child . it move I to tear . however , most people can not afford that option . Most do not want to put their family at risk of prosecution ; they want death on their own term . Gary live in my constituency , and he ask I to tell the House his story of die with liver cancer . he know that the end stage will be brutal , and he want to decide when enough be enough . he I : " death do not worry I at all . die a slow death with my dignity strip away terrify I . so when my time be right I will kill myself — alone and afraid . my sick dog will not have to die alone and afraid , but I be force to do so . I want to die on my term . how can this be right ? " Tracie , who be a palliative care nurse , tell I : " I ' ve witness many end of life patient and I can not say hand on heart that many of those patient have a peaceful death . I leave palliative nursing as the emotional trauma become too much . there be neither the range of medication or symptom relief treatment available for many of the harrowing thing people be force to go through in their last day and week of their life . " this Bill be about compassion and humanity , and we must listen to the voice of die people . I call the shadow Minister . today the focus be rightly on Back Benchers , so I will limit my remark and — mindful of your advice on time , Mr Speaker — I will not be take any intervention . it be not for I to make the case for his Majesty ' s Opposition , because we have not take a collective view , and , like many other member , I have struggle greatly with this decision . I do not believe there be a perfect choice to be make today , just different version of imperfection , and my time work as a doctor in A & E have make I sympathetic to both side of the argument . I have see the pain in the eye of relative who want to ease the suffering of their die love one , but I have also hold the hand of frail elderly people , forget by their family , feel themselves to be nothing but a burden . when we reduce it to its core , we be face a difficult dilemma . access to assist dying could reduce suffering for the terminally ill . that be a choice that some people would like to have , and some people would make that choice without any undue pressure . if we vote against this Bill today , they will not have that choice . I caution against avoid face up to this hard moral reality by argue that whatever people may fear about die can always be manage by modern medicine . for all that it can achieve , modern medicine can not achieve everything . we have hear example today of the bad illness that do more than cause pain . the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) and my hon . friend the . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) describe die from a catastrophic bleed that take a person ' s life in a panicked final moment . of course , the treatment we may use to help people with pain often rob they of what they may sincerely feel to be their own independence and dignity . some people may not want to spend their final day in a drug - induce state of semi - consciousness to manage their pain . those minded to vote against the Bill should give that the great possible consideration . I do not think that the Bill ' s opponent can deny it , any more than its proponent can deny that if this law be pass , it will represent the crossing of a significant legal , societal and moral Rubicon . every other expectation that we have of the state be for it to help to extend and protect life , but we will instead be ask the state to procure the medicine , provide the staff , and sign off through the court a process that be design to lead — and will lead — to someone ' s death . a deep respect for the sanctity of life be not the preserve only of religious thinker . opponent of the Bill place great weight on that consideration . they argue that once we accept that the state and its citizen can play a proactive role in cause death , the debate will shift from whether it should do that at all to how and when it should . it may be that we pass this legislation and no other in future , but those who have the utmost concern about even the possibility of an expand Bill may vote against this one as the sure way for they personally to prevent that from happen . the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , argue that coercion be not limit to the selfishly motivated relative directly pressure a vulnerable person . it can be as simple as know that people in the same position as oneself could and do choose to die . some member worry that people will then ask themselves not just " do I want to die ? " , but " should I want to die ? " so where do this leave we ? all of we can make a sensible and reasonable case for our position , and even point to care and compassion , as we see it , in support of our view . take all this together , I think it mean that one thing more than anything else should be our guide principle today : we should , above all else , vote with great humility , and with respect for each and every vote cast in whichever direction . I want to direct that sentiment to the country at large . there be passionate campaigner on both side of the debate , with their own perspective , who fear greatly the outcome today if it turn out not to be the one that they want . I say to they that as well as be mps , those voting today be also son , daughter , brother , sister , parent and grandparent . each Member will have in mind what they would want for their family and themselves . our final decision will come at the end of a great deal of thought and careful consideration . as the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) say , if people listen closely enough today they will have hear we all speak with one voice — the voice of passion , for those people and cause that we be try to aid with our vote , even if those people and cause be different . that passion represent this House at its very good . that should not be forget . I hope that it be something on which we can all agree . this second reading debate on the Bill sponsor by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) provide the House and the country with an opportunity to discuss this complex and sensitive issue . I make it clear that I stand at the Dispatch Box today not as the MP for Pontypridd represent the view of my constituent , although I thank each and every one of they who take the time to contact I with their consider opinion . I stand here today as the Government Minister responsible for the criminal law on this issue in England and Wales , contain in the Suicide Act 1961 . as the Government remain neutral on this topic of conscience , and out of respect for my ministerial colleague who be not able to outline their view in today ' s debate , I will not be share my personal opinion on this matter . I will , however , be take part in the vote . with all that in mind , I will keep my response brief and not take any intervention . the Government be of the view that any change to the law in this area be an issue of conscience for individual parliamentarian . it be rightly , in our view , a matter for Parliament rather than the Government to decide . accordingly , the Government Benches will have a free vote should the view of the House be test today . if the will of Parliament be that the law in this area should change , the Government will of course respect their duty to the statute book and ensure that any Bill be effective and its provision can be enforce . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley for bring this important national conversation to the fore and for conduct her campaign with respect and integrity . I pay tribute to the campaigner on both side of the debate , include Dame Esther Rantzen , Liz Carr , Nathaniel Dye and Baroness Grey - Thompson . they have all use their voice to advocate for what they believe and have contribute significantly to the important national conversation around death . regardless of view , the one thing we have in common be that we will all experience death at some point . death be a topic that we do not tend to talk about very much , but these discussion have undoubtedly enable family up and down the country to talk openly about their wish and how they feel about their own death . that powerful honesty be a tribute to how Members of this House and campaigner have conduct themselves throughout , and I thank they for inform today ' s debate . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question agree to . question put accordingly , that the Bill be now read a second time . Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Callum Anderson Lee Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Jas Athwal Victoria Atkins Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Mark Garnier Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kevin Hollinrake Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Jeremy Hunt Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Warinder Juss Chris Kane Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rupert Lowe Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Mike Martin Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband John Milne Andrew Mitchell Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Mel Stride Rishi Sunak Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Richard Tice Marie Tidball Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome James Wild Max Wilkinson Steve Witherden Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Bambos Charalambous Sarah Owen Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Gideon Amos Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Steve Barclay Johanna Baxter Apsana Begum Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Bob Blackman Elsie Blundell Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Gregory Campbell Juliet Campbell Christopher Chope Feryal Clark James Cleverly Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Ann Davies Gareth Davies Jonathan davy Mims Davies Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Maya Ellis Chris Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Patricia Ferguson Peter Fortune Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Mark Francois Louie French James Frith Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Roger Gale Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Rebecca Harris Helen Hayes John Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Sally Jameson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Uma Kumaran Katie Lam David Lammy John Lamont Ian Lavery Edward Leigh Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon James McMurdock Frank McNally Esther McVey Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Grahame Morris Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison James Naish Josh Newbury Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Priti Patel Matthew Patrick Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Mark Pritchard Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Angela Rayner Mike Reader David Reed Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds David Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Alison Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Thomas Tugendhat Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Helen Whately John Whittingdale David Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Sean Woodcock Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Harriett Baldwin Florence Eshalomi the House divide : Ayes 330 , Noes 275 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) bill : power of public bill committee to send for person , paper and record order , that the Public Bill Committee to which the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill stand committed shall have the power to send for person , paper and record . — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) under Standing Order no . 63 ( 2 ) only one motion relate to the committal of the Bill may be move , and that have be do . Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . as we know , ten of thousand of puppy be illegally smuggle into the UK every year ; it be a huge animal welfare problem . this Bill will help to close the issue of have mutilation in dog . as a veterinary surgeon , I see many dog with cropped ear and dock tail — act that be illegal to perform in the UK . People be perform those act in the UK then claim that the puppy have be bring in from abroad . if we ban puppy come in from abroad with those mutilation , it will be of huge benefit to animal welfare . the Bill will also protect public health , because we know that the ten of thousand of dog be bring in be not be test for disease such as rabie , which can affect people . this be also about serious organise crime : prevent ten of thousand of puppy be bring into the UK will help we to tackle the criminal gang do those act . in the interest of time , I will finish by say that I be pleased to have cross - party support on this issue as well as the support of the entire veterinary profession . I thank the Dogs Trust , the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the British Veterinary Association for all the work they do to help to make this happen . I call the shadow Minister . animal welfare unite we in humanity . as a veterinary surgeon , a Member of Parliament and the shadow Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Minister , I can proudly say that his Majesty ' s loyal opposition strongly support this Bill in the interest of animal health and welfare . I congratulate the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) and thank he for bring forward this important Bill . this government take the issue of pet smuggling seriously . early this year , we make a manifesto commitment to end puppy smuggling , and that be exactly what we will do . I be delighted to announce that the Government will be fully support the passage of the Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill through Parliament . we stand ready to work with the hon . gentleman to clamp down on deceitful pet seller who prioritise profit over welfare . this Bill will crack down on pet smuggling by close loophole in the current pet travel rule . at present , illegal importer of dog , cat and ferret often exploit loophole to bring in animal under the guise of genuine owner travel with their pet . the Bill will close those loophole by reduce the number of dog , cat and ferret that be permit to be bring into Great Britain by a person under the pet travel rule . the limit will be reduce from five pet per person to five pet per vehicle , and three pet per foot or air passenger . the Bill will also provide we with power to crack down on low - welfare import of pet . we will first use those power to restrict the movement of heavily pregnant and mutilate dog and cat into Great Britain . at the same time , we will raise the minimum age at which puppy and kitten can be bring into Great Britain , which will be set at six month . we will also ensure that the non - commercial movement of a pet into Great Britain must be link to the movement of its owner . to move under the pet travel rule go forward , the pet and owner will have to travel within five day of each other . in the interest of time , I again thank the hon . member for Winchester for take forward this important Bill and look forward to work together to progress it through the House . do the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) wish to come back in ? indicate dissent . good . question put and agree to . [ applause . ] how dare member clap ? I have enough with Roger ! business without Debate Palestine Statehood ( Recognition ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Speaker interrupt the business ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 . Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March 2025 . Employment Rights ( Special Constables ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 . Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 6 December . Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . football ( Gender Inequality ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May 2025 . child ' s Hospices ( Funding ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 . petition - national bus fare cap I rise to present a petition on behalf of resident of the United Kingdom regard the Government ' s decision to increase the bus fare cap by 50 % . More than 105 , 000 people have sign a relate change . org petition . the £ 2 fare cap introduce in January 2020 have be a lifeline for people , provide access to work , medical appointment and family connection during a period of mount financial strain . despite the crisis be far from over , the Government plan to raise the cap to £ 3 in January 2025 , add hundred to annual commuter cost and risk isolation of vulnerable individual . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to reconsider the cap increase , and call for sufficient support to ensure that affordable public transport remain accessible and sustainable through 2025 and beyond . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Coventry South , declare that when the £ 2 bus fare cap be introduce in January 2020 , it become a crucial lifeline for people across the country who rely on bus to get to work , attend medical appointment and visit family ; far that this cap be introduce specifically to address the cost - of - living crisis , ensure that bus travel remain affordable and accessible as household feel financial pressure intensify ; far that despite the cost - of - live crisis be far from over , the government now plan to raise the fare cap to £ 3 from January 2025 ; far that a £ 1 increase could add hundred of pound to annual cost for daily commuter and may isolate other entirely from essential service and community support ; and note the positive impact of the £ 2 fare cap on people , especially for those in rural area , where public transport option be more limited . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to reconsider change to the £ 2 bus fare cap , and to provide adequate support through 2025 to ensure that public transport be make easy , cheap and more accessible . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003021 ] petition - pimp website and pay for sex I rise on the fifth day of the UN ' s 16 day of activism against gender - base violence , to present a petition on behalf of my Lowestoft constituent on commercial sexual exploitation . pimp website facilitate the trafficking and exploitation of woman , yet remain readily accessible . these company make million of pound out of extremely vulnerable woman and be a core part of the business model of sex trafficking in the UK . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Lowestoft , declare that demand from the minority of man who pay for sex be drive the prostitution and sex trafficking trade , and this sexual exploitation be be facilitate by pimp website that operate with impunity . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003024 ] on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in the debate on the assist die Bill , the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) assure the House that there would be cross - party support in relation to the make - up of the Bill Committee . can you confirm , for Hansard and for my constituent back home , that the make - up of that Committee will represent the view of this House , ever mindful of the vote that take place ? we be all aware that 334 vote for the Bill and 275 against ; perhaps the Committee can accordingly reflect that representation in the House . unfortunately , that be not my responsibility ; it be for the Member in charge of the Bill . I be sure that that point will have be hear . as I know the hon . Gentleman well , I do not think he will leave it there , and I be sure he will be in contact with the Member in charge to remind they . man ' s violence against Women and Girls Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) in January , Tia Simmonds be kill by her husband . her body be hide in a storage area in the loft of her home , lie face downwards , cover in clothing and bedding . in March , Wendy Francis be stab to death by her daughter ' s boyfriend , who also try to kill her daughter . in April , Rachel McDaid be strangle to death with a bootlace by her estranged husband , who have break into her house . in June , Rita Fleming be drown in the bath after sustain serious head injury from her fianc é . in August , mother of three Courtney Mitchell be chase down the street and stab to death in broad daylight by her ex - boyfriend . every three day in this country , a woman be murder by a man . any other murder or violent spree against a group in our society would be front - page news every single day . I commend and congratulate the hon . Lady on secure this debate . I know that the Minister have a love of Northern Ireland , and in the last year six woman have be murder in Northern Ireland — I understand that all the case be pende . do that not illustrate that , no matter where we be in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , the murder rate for woman be absolutely abysmal ? I absolutely agree with the hon . gentleman — [ interruption . ] or hon . friend ? I feel I know he now from so many intervention . [ laughter . ] the fact that this be not front - page news , or top headline news , show the discrimination and misogyny in the news coverage around the issue . we need to use our position in the House to make sure it be hear about . this year , it be confirm that the most dangerous place for a woman to be anywhere in the world be in her own home . it be estimate that less than 24 % of domestic abuse crime be report to the police , yet the police receive domestic abuse - relate call every 30 second . domestic abuse be devastating not just for the woman in receipt of it but for the child who observe it . domestic abuse come in all form — violent , emotional and financial . one in four woman in England and Wales will experience domestic abuse in her lifetime . in Wolverhampton last year , it be estimate that more than 6 , 000 woman be subject to domestic abuse . will my hon . friend commend the " Orange Wolverhampton " campaign , which run from 25 November to 10 December every year ? the campaign involve the Wolverhampton safeguard team , the Safer Wolverhampton Partnership , and the City of Wolverhampton council work together to highlight the issue of man ' s violence against woman , include domestic abuse and the violence against young woman that be sadly so prevalent these day . I know that Wolverhampton have many community campaign to change the tide of violence against woman and girl . I know that that have be happen in city and town across our country , but we need to be there to support those campaign for they to have a true impact . I take this opportunity to thank an organisation in my own constituency , MK ACT , which have do enormous work , include run a refuge and perpetrator programme to support not only those who have be victim of domestic abuse , but those who perpetrate it . work such as that have be try to stem the tide of abuse in our community . do my hon . friend and the Minister agree that we need to ensure the ongoing funding of the critical organisation in our community that be support woman and girl , such as the Emily Davison centre ? it be the first centre for end violence against woman and girl to be establish in the UK , in Accrington . furthermore , will my hon . friend pay tribute to the amazing work of one of the councillor in my constituency , Samara Barnes , who with Safer Rossendale be lead on a brilliant scheme in Haslingden to ensure that Christmas party be safe this year , follow on from the very important development in legislation tackle spike of people ' s drink ? it have be a long day for all of we , and I really appreciate that hon . member have stay so late on such an important day — Don ' t worry about Jim ! right — I be wait for the next intervention . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) that councillor in their local community and organisation such as that be make the difference and be the place that woman be turn to because , unfortunately , the system be let they down — not least around rape . despite five out of six rape not even be report to the police , in the year end July almost 70 , 000 woman courageously report their rape . only 2 . 7 % of those ever make it to charge and court , while for other crime the rate be 7 % . that mean in this country it be easy to get away with rape than with robbery . I thank the hon . member for secure this important debate . there be around 3 , 000 report of violence against woman and girl make in Somerset every month and at least one in 12 woman experience violence against they each year . many of those incident go unreported . a constituent of mine be sadly regularly physically abuse and gaslighte by her ex - partner , and she feel really disappointed and disillusioned with the police response . to I it be no wonder that so many woman be not confident in report the abuse against they . so do the hon . member agree with I that gaslighting be a serious problem in tackle violence against woman and girl ? the hon . member be absolutely right ; we need to look at why woman do not have confidence in report to police . some of that will be because of the number that we have see go through to prosecution , and because of their worry that it will get bad for they before it get well and about the protection they may or may not receive . however , I be really proud to be part of a Government that have declare violence against woman and girl to be a national emergency . I be proud of the work we have already do , commit to halve it , with the introduction of the domestic abuse protection order to give great great protection to woman , Raneem ' s law to transform how police handle domestic violence call , workplace harassment law , new protection for victim of stalk , and make spike a specific criminal offence . no doubt that be down to the amazing woman we have lead on this issue in Government , not least my hon . friend the Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and my right hon . friend the Home Secretary , and their absolute commitment and tireless work on this issue . I congratulate the hon . Lady on secure this debate . what she be say be absolutely right . do she agree that change in law make in this place can help lead to broad cultural change in society ? we need to be at the forefront of these change . sometimes it can be quite difficult , but we must pick up that challenge , particularly when it come to tackle violence against woman and girl . I thank the hon . member for his intervention ; I absolutely agree . when we see member from across the House raise this issue in Northern Ireland question , Westminster Hall and in the various debate we have , we know that it will have an impact on not only what the government do but how man and woman perceive this issue in our community . I want to talk about those perception , particularly the perception of young man . we often hear the platitude that for woman it have always be this way , but be that actually true ? a 2024 Crown Prosecution Service survey of 18 to 24 - year - old man show that it be not . half of 18 to 24 - year - old think that it be not rape if the victim do not resist or fight back . over half think that be in a relationship or marriage mean that consent to sex can be assume . two third believe that if a person say online that they want to meet up and have sex , they be entitle to the sex when they meet , no matter whether the individual change their mind . More than half think that if a man have be drink or take drug , he be not responsible for the rape he commit . do the House agree that we need to do more to tackle toxic masculinity by people and influencer like Andrew Tate , because they be at the forefront of put these idea into the mind of young man ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I be just about to come on to that point . the result of this survey show that young man between 18 and 24 have a significantly poor understanding of rape and consent than those over the age of 65 . how have this happen ? young man be be radicalise in the same way as recognise terrorist group radicalise people . there be this sense of entitlement , righteousness and belong to community , but a community whose role model include Andrew Tate , who say that , " if you put yourself in a position to be rape , you must bear some responsibility " , and : " loser love to talk about feeling . " talk about woman , he say " grip she by the neck " in a video view over 1 . 6 million time . eight out of 10 boy between 16 and 17 know about , watch , read or listen to these video , and almost half of they have a positive view of he . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate , and for the way it have be conduct at the end of quite a long day . I have be a proud champion of the White Ribbon campaign for many year — it be base in my constituency . key to that campaign be the idea that it start with man take responsibility for how they and their friend act . in this place , our job be to legislate . do my hon . friend agree that part of that job be ensure that we get education right ? at the moment , the education system do not do enough to address this , and we can see that in the result . UK Feminista stat show that almost four in 10 girl who go to mix school have be sexually harass while at school . that be not acceptable . child can not learn if they be in fear . human being should have the right to live without fear . that be what I want to see in this country , in our education system and throughout society . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , who be a big champion on this issue , not least with White Ribbon UK be in his constituency . I want to move on to that subject . what do we do to make sure we challenge this ? the work that the Government be do be to challenge this through the law and the court , but it be up to we to challenge it in our community . we be role model in our community . that be why I be proud to have lead Milton Keynes to become the first White Ribbon city . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . this be so important for how we behave both as a society and in this House . I have table an early - day motion call for Disclosure and Barring Service check for all member of both Houses , as I think this would lead to great transparency and openness . it would hopefully make we all feel safe in the corridor of power but , more importantly , it would give the institution we visit , such as care home and school , much great confidence in who they be let through their door . would my hon . friend support such a proposal ? I thank my hon . friend , who I know care deeply about this issue . I see the value in ensure there be no fear when a Member of Parliament visit . People should always be able to have confidence in we around the elderly , child and woman in our constituency . the theme of this year ' s White Ribbon Day be " it start with man . " not all man be violent , but all man can help end violence against woman and girl . I thank some of the man who have speak on this issue recently , and who be pave the way as incredible role model for other man . my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) have work tirelessly on this issue , my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) speak passionately at the White Ribbon Day reception , and many other speak in the Westminster Hall debate and have ask question in this House . it start with we in this House . when member fall short , it be right that we , the man and woman of this House , call it out . through the Modernisation Committee and other initiative , such as DBS check , I hope we can determine whether member with violent criminal record have be elect to this House . refuge offer protection from perpetrator , time to recover from abuse and a range of support to enable survivor to rebuild their life , yet 61 % of refuge referral in England last year have to be decline due to lack of capacity . Scarborough and Whitby have the high rate of record domestic incident in North Yorkshire , but it have no refuge . do my hon . friend agree that the refuge sector need more support ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . there be far too few refuge , and those that exist often have too few bed and be often not appropriate for the kind of care and support that both survivor and their child need . I would like to see more example like the purpose - build refuge in Milton Keynes , which provide care and counselling for every family member who need to flee . however , achieve this will require more support from both local authority and the Government . we must ensure that good practice be share and that funding be in place . excuse have be make for far too long . " I be drunk . " " her skirt be short . " " her heel be high . " " it be a teenage indiscretion . " we must remember that our behaviour , our word and our action be be watch . we have the opportunity to turn the tide for the 50 % of the population who be scared to walk down the street , to attend a festival , to go for a run or even to go home . the statistic on violence against woman and girl make too many woman feel like it be inevitable that something will happen to they , even if it have already happen to they before . to they , it feel like only a matter of time . it be up to every Member of this House , woman and man , to hold themselves up as an example of how real man behave and how woman deserve to be treat . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) for bring forward this debate on such an important issue , and for what she have call the debate — it may not have be note by anyone other than the eagle - eyed — which refer to " violence by man against woman " . I note it and appreciate it , because man ' s violence against woman and girl ruin live on a truly terrible scale . it must be treat as a national emergency . it be a high - harm and high - volume crime which , because of the high volume , be difficult to grapple with , but we be absolutely determined to do that . the datum tell we that crime such as domestic abuse , stalking , rape and other sexual offence disproportionately affect woman . we also know that these crime be predominantly , though not exclusively , commit by man . we have commit to halve violence against woman and girl in the next decade . I will refer to some of the step we be take , although it be very nice for a Minister when all the step we be go to take be mention in the precede speech . I appreciate that . the step include address the root cause , underlying behaviour and attitude that cause violence against woman and girl , and ensure perpetrator be bring to justice . the femicide my hon . Friend highlight when she begin her speech tell the story well than any of we could . they be harrowing and each one a tragedy . to say a positive thing , this new Parliament behave beautifully in the previous debate and I feel proud today to call myself a parliamentarian . Mr Speaker , I do not know how you do it , because I literally can not identify half the new Members of Parliament ! the amount of man , from all party , I have hear speak up on violence against woman and girl since I have be in my ministerial position have be a real sea change . the theme of this year ' s White Ribbon Day , refer to by my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , be " it start with man " . I have really , really feel that . I doff my cap to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who have be in pretty much every debate I have be in on this subject . I really do feel like there have be quite a tide - turn in this regard , and it be really lovely to see here today man and woman together speak up on this issue . we all know that domestic abuse be often a hidden crime that be not report to the police . that be not acceptable . victim deserve to feel safe and for justice to be uphold . in addition to relentlessly purse perpetrator , it be also essential that we prevent reoffende and ensure that there be a comprehensive approach to perpetrator , from early intervention to target the most prolific and repeat offender . this be why , as I outline early — actually , I do not outline they ; my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central outline some of the thing the Government be go to do — we have implement a series of bold measure design to strengthen the police response to violence against woman and girl , and protect victim and hold perpetrator to account . after a case of domestic abuse , my constituent deal with over two year of delay before eventually the CPS decide not to proceed with the case , as the perpetrator have not carry out any further case . with that in mind , do the Minister agree that we must address delay in domestic abuse case and referral from the police to the CPS , as they pose a unique risk to woman ' s safety ? I absolutely agree . I think everybody sit in this debate could probably refer to a case in their own constituency with similar delay . in my role , I work very closely with both the police and the CPS to try to bottom out the issue cause some of those delay — other than the general degradation of our justice system — and to try to make improvement where we can . the attrition rate of victim drop out be currently one of the big barrier to we hold people to account . and who could blame a person for drop out after be make to wait ? I totally agree with the hon . Lady . as part of our mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade , we will ask police to relentlessly pursue those perpetrator who pose the great risk to woman , and to use all the tool at their disposal to protect victim and get dangerous offender off our street . we will work with police to develop a national framework that use data - drive tool and algorithm to track and target high - harm offender involve in domestic abuse , sexual assault , harassment and stalk . in addition to the relentless pursuing of perpetrator , it be also essential that we prevent reoffende and , with that , have a truly comprehensive approach to deal with perpetration . many hon . member in intervention mention brilliant organisation in their constituency . I be delighted to hear that people have those — time be , there be not brilliant organisation all across the country . we must ensure that we maintain those brilliant service , which be so vital for help keep victim safe . I turn to the attitude that my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central talk about , and specifically the attitude of young man . I be the mother of two teenage boy . one be about to be not a teenager but an actual real adult — I mean , he ' s not pay I any rent yet . [ laughter . ] the datum that she read out do not surprise I . I think we always feel that there would be progress , with the " it ' s just a domestic " attitude gradually get well with time . but I have be alarm by what we see in the attitude , perpetration and victimisation datum , which be that currently this crime be trend young : the big growth area be those aged 16 to 19 . all of we would think that that be a tragedy we have not see come ; we think that with the young generation we would be able to program it out . I be afraid to say that that have not be do , so prevention and education will be fundamental to our approach . we will tackle the root cause of these crime , include support our education system to teach child about respectful and healthy relationship and consent . the idea that just because someone match with somebody else on an online app mean they be owe something be the weak idea of consent that I have ever hear . we know that domestic abuse be one of the main reason why child come into contact with child ' s social care , and it be a feature in more than half the serious incident report to the child safeguard practice review panel . we know that those who experience abuse before the age of 16 be more likely to go on to be victim or perpetrator in adulthood . that be why prevention have to be the absolute cornerstone of the Government ' s action go forward . the Government be currently review the content of the relationship , sex and health education curriculum . the Secretary of State for Education have be clear that child ' s wellbeing must be at the heart of guidance for school . as such , the Government will look carefully at the consultation response and discuss with stakeholder and consider the relevant evidence before set out the next step . I express my gratitude once again to my hon . friend for secure the debate and to all other hon . member who be here on a Friday . our mission be to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . it be ambitious but essential , and we will not do it without everybody in the House — as well as everybody in this country — do it together . the point raise in the debate have once more reaffirm how vital this work be and remind we of the responsibility that we bear to woman and girl across the country . the Government remain steadfast in that commitment and will tackle these issue head - on . I look forward to collaborate with all colleague , as I always have . question put and agree to . House adjourn .