Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — Broadband Connectivity what progress he have make on improve broadband connectivity . More than 85 % of UK premise can now access a gigabit - capable broadband connection . through Project Gigabit , more than a dozen supplier be deliver contract to bring fast , reliable broadband to more than 1 million more home and business across the country . my team be make good progress and push forward with further plan to improve digital connectivity in hard - to - reach community that would otherwise be miss out . access to reliable broadband be essential to resident across my constituency , but for those who fall just outside commercial full - fibre broadband deployment area , it remain a real issue that impact their ability to work and study . what further action can the Government take to ensure that resident fall just outside current roll - out area be not leave behind ? my hon . friend be a good advocate for her new constituency . I want everyone to understand that this new Department be not far remove from people ' s life , because we represent area of technology all the way from space to digital infrastructure . we realise that every aspect of the Department ' s work be connect to human being try to move forward and get on in life , and nowhere be that more important than in their ability to express their life online . I can reassure she that we be ensure that the market for digital provision be a function market that deliver for her constituent . in area where the market be not as full as we would like , market provider need to work together , to ensure that all resident across her constituency have the connectivity they deserve . my constituent in Throwley and Wichling have be battle for high - speed broadband . we think we have it over the line , but in a recent telephone conversation Building Digital UK say that it be still to be confirm . would the Secretary of State be willing to meet I to discuss how we can ensure that those community do not miss out again ? go on ! I can hear encourage sound from the hon . Lady ' s colleague ask for that meeting . let I say at the outset that this Department want to engage with everyone — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I haven ' t finish yet . we want to ensure that everyone in every constituency have full access to the connectivity that they need . with that in mind , the Minister responsible for the roll - out of these service will meet official to ensure that the hon . Lady be give the attention that her constituent deserve . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . People and business in my constituency , like many elsewhere , be plague with patchy access . Andy from Wheathampstead have find that the only way he can move on to work from home and run a business be to have expensive satellite broadband . will the Secretary of State commit to ensure that every home and business have access to gigabit broadband in rural and remote community , and will he also ensure that there be bespoke solution so that no home or business be leave out ? our manifesto commitment be to get to 99 % coverage by 2030 , and that be something we be determined to do . the programme run by BDUK for share rural network be technology - neutral . along with the Minister responsible , I be encourage BDUK as fulsomely as I can to ensure that every single technology emerge , as well as exist , be put to good use in that endeavour . life Sciences : stevenage what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to support the life science sector in Stevenage constituency . my hon . friend take every opportunity to raise this subject . he will be happy to learn that the Government have a clear plan for support the life science sector , as set out in our life science plan . stevenage have a thrive life science community : it be home to GSK , Autolus and a grow number of biotech company . we be continue to encourage company to expand their footprint in the area , support by the cell and gene therapy catapult , which operate the manufacture innovation centre , and the skill and training laboratory . I be proud that my constituency be a top location for life science company to develop cut - edge technology . one of they , BioOrbit , which be host by Airbus Defence and Space in Stevenage through its small and medium - sized enterprise accelerator programme , be build a pharmaceutical factory in space to leverage the benefit of microgravity for large - scale administration of cancer treatment . another UK prime company , GSK , host more than 40 sme . do my hon . friend agree that we need to do all we can to support innovative sme in the life science and space sector ? my hon . friend rightly acknowledge that stevenage be a lead hub for life science company to develop and commercialise cutting - edge therapeutic . GSK and Airbus be shine example of UK innovation at work . early this week we publish the industrial strategy Green Paper to drive long - term , sustainable , inclusive and secure growth , and to secure investment in crucial sector of the economy , include life science . there be an opportunity to renew the UK ' s leadership in life science through bold innovation and collective partnership with the sector , to build an nhs that be fit for the future and to drive economic growth across the region of the UK . follow the successful investment in Rolls - Royce ' s technology and logistic centre , what be the Minister do to get more investment into my Bognor Regis and Littlehampton constituency ? I be not sure that Rolls - Royce fit into a question on life science . do the Minister have an answer ? I thank the hon . member for her question . she will have see from the investment summit early this week that there be huge interest from a number of company in invest in the UK , and there be huge support from this Government for those company that wish to invest . Mobile Phone reception : Bridgwater what step his Department be take to enhance mobile phone reception in the Bridgwater constituency . the most recent statistic , which be available for the old shape of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , suggest that 97 % of property there have 4 g connection . however , I be not sure that the statistic reflect the live experience of most people in his constituency — or , I suspect , any other constituency in the land . that be not good enough , which be why our ambition be for all populated area to have stand - alone 5 g by 2030 . I be grateful to the Minister for his answer . Bridgwater have a mixture of urban and rural area , and many of my constituent in the rural part complain of almost non - existent signal . the O2 signal in Burnham - on - Sea be non - existent . in Pawlett , the Vodafone and ee signal be non - existent . in Chedzoy , the EE signal be non - existent . [ interruption . ] can he confirm that the Government intend to continue fund the share rural network , so that we can improve coverage for all our constituent ? well , I note that the mobile signal seem to be work in here , which be unusual for the rest of the country . we have to get this right , because people can not live without a proper mobile signal . it be essential for people ' s life , their health and their ability to run a business , and we be determined to put thing right . in direct answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , yes , we will continue to fund the share rural network . in constituency such as Bridgwater and Carlisle , poor mobile coverage force people to rely on their fix - line service . do the Minister share my concern that the switch - off of the public switch telephone network will leave constituent unable to access 999 service in the event of an emergency ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . she make a really good point : as we take away the copper line and move over to the new technology , which we need to do , it be absolutely essential that we ensure there be a safe transition , even if it be only for people who have telecare device on which they rely for their own safety — I be sure we all have relative who have one of those . I have already meet all the operator , and I be determined to crack the whip on this issue . I call Ayoub Khan — not here . Research and Development what step he be take to help improve domestic research and development capability . the UK ' s R & D system be a central strength and vital for the future prosperity and wellbeing of our citizen . we be recognise for the strength of our university system and research base , and we be invest through UK Research and Innovation to continuously improve our r & D capability . in July we launch five new quantum technology hub , which be deliver by UKRI and back by over £ 100 million - worth of Government funding . this will ensure that the british people benefit from the potential of quantum technology in a range of area , from healthcare and computing to national security and critical infra - structure alike . Turbo Power Systems in my constituency be a great example of a global company build on research and development but with proud local root . would the Secretary of State be happy to visit it , as I have , to see its fantastic work ? of course , I look forward to visit Turbo Power Systems the next time I be in the region and see the amazing work it do . it be contribute to one of the key mission of this Government , which be to get to clean superpower status by 2030 , and I look forward to see what it be do to make that a reality . I recently visit Yorkshire Cancer Research in my constituency . it be come up to 100 year since it be found , and it have create amazing drug , such as tamoxifen , to extend people ' s life and help they fight cancer . we know that less than 5 % of medical research investment be spend on R & D in Yorkshire . give that we have 8 % of the population , what more can the Secretary of State do to ensure that R & D opportunity investment be spread across our country ? it be incredibly important for this government that we invest across the whole country , which be why we have invest £ 118 million in healthcare research and partnership hub that be outside London and across the United Kingdom . I hope that this benefit the hon . Gentleman ' s area too . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . the whole House recognise — certainly , the Government ' s industrial strategy do — that in order to drive growth we need innovation cluster across the country . the last Government commit to increase r & D spend outside of the great south - east by 40 % by 2030 as part of the fail levelling - up strategy . will the Secretary of State say whether he intend to maintain that target , and / or what step he will take to ensure that funding be available to drive regional growth and innovation ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and I congratulate she , on behalf the whole House , on her election as Chair of the Select Committee — I look forward to appear before it soon and regularly thereafter . she raise an incredibly important point . I can say that this Government be commit to work with local and regional mayor to ensure that local growth plan and the partnership with UKRI will benefit all region . these include a £ 100 million innovation accelerator pilot and £ 80 million in launchpad programme , all of which will meet the need that she outline . the Secretary of State have an interest in Northern Ireland , so can I ask he whether he hold statistic on how much research and development tax relief support have be issue to Northern Ireland in the last 12 month to help support science and technology ? if he do not have the figure today , I would be happy for he to send they to I . as always , I be grateful to hear from the hon . Gentleman . I will be in touch with any specific that I can follow up with , but we be a government commit to Northern Ireland , which I believe he will have see from day one of this Labour Government back in July . I can also show that there have be great advancement in investment in Northern Ireland , which be why Northern Ireland have the high coverage rate for fast fibre - optic broadband of any part of the United Kingdom . I want to be a champion for Northern Ireland , and I visit recently to ensure that everybody in the science and technology community there realise that this be a Government who be on their side . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State , in one of his first act in his new role , cut £ 1 . 3 billion - worth of funding that would have be transformative for enable cutting - edge research and development in Britain . I note that he have also ditch our ambition to turn Britain into a science and technology superpower . we set a target of £ 20 billion for R & D , which we meet , but he have set no such target . will he be set a target , and can he today promise that there will be no cut to R & D expenditure ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his appointment to his Front - Bench role . let we just be honest about what this Government inherit . that £ 20 billion black hole affect every single Department across Government . my Department inherit a situation where the previous Government — include the former Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , who be sit on the Opposition Front Bench — commit at this Dispatch Box to an exascale project to which not one single penny have be commit . that be a fraud commit on the scientific community of our country by that Government , and I have to make the difficult decision to move forward — order . I think we have go on long enough on that question . Project gigabit : Chester South and Eddisbury what step he be take to roll out Project Gigabit in the Chester South and Eddisbury constituency . as part of Project Gigabit , Freedom Fibre be deliver a contract to provide 15 , 000 home and business across Cheshire , include in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , with access to fast , reliable broadband . in addition , over 800 voucher have be issue to connect premise in her constituency through the gigabit broadband voucher scheme . close to half the ward in my constituency be judge by Ofcom to be in the bad 30 % of all area in the UK when it come to have a decent broadband connection . my constituent will be deeply concern by report that the current review of the next stage of Project Gigabit could see fund divert from hard - to - reach rural area to major city such as central London . will the Minister offer a concrete guarantee that no rural community will be leave behind by the Government ' s review ? I do not see it as a divide between rural and urban , because there be urban issue as well as rural issue . the hon . Lady be absolutely right that the previous Government fail to deliver in her constituency , and we intend to put that right . she should not believe everything she read in the newspaper . I know that she be try to have a meeting with Building Digital UK , and I be happy to make sure that we can both sit down with official to try to sort out these problem in her constituency — and I be happy to do the same for any other member . the Minister know that improved connectivity be important to the economy of our south Wales valley . however , it have be hard for I to get definitive information on the roll - out of Project Gigabit to Trefil , just north of Tredegar , in my constituency . will he please look into this so that my constituent in Trefil , and across the rest of Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , know when their broadband service will improve ? I be happy to arrange the same kind of meeting with my hon . friend as I offer to the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) . he be right that there be very significant problem in south Wales valley community , and we need to put those right . it be a shame that we have not have a digital inclusion strategy for 10 whole year , which be a disgrace . that be one of the thing we need to put right . UK Space Sector what step he be take to help support the UK space sector . we have already debate some of these issue , as the right hon . Gentleman know , and he be right to stress that the UK space sector be one of our most important area of possible economic growth . we want to maximise our unique potential in this area , and I look forward to work with he and the company base in his constituency that be seek to do this . I thank the Minister , as this sector offer massive economic and strategic opportunity for the United Kingdom . the development of the Shetland spaceport at SaxaVord be now significantly ahead of the field , so get that project across the line will bring benefit to other project across the United Kingdom . will the Minister meet I and the developer of SaxaVord in Shetland to discuss what the Government can do , directly or indirectly , to help ? it feel like I will be meet everyone , but I be very happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman . indeed , I be meet Orbex later today , because an important point be that we have a specific geographical and skill advantage in the launch sector , which we need to exploit to our good advantage for the whole UK economy . it be not just about what happen on Shetland ; it be about lot of business in the supply chain , from mission control to technological support . yes , I be very happy to meet he . roblox : child Protection what step he be take to protect child use the Roblox platform from online predator . keep child safe online be the priority for this Government . the Online Safety Act 2023 place strict safety duty on online platform , such as Roblox , to protect child from be groom by online predator . Ofcom be the regime ' s regulator and , by the end of this year , it will set out step for the platform to take to fulfil their duty . one of my constituent be a volunteer moderator on the Roblox platform . his group have identify and ban over 14 , 000 account involve in child grooming , exploitation and sharing indecent image . do the Secretary of State agree that while we drive for tech innovation and investment , we must keep online safety at the heart of our strategy ? I extend my deep sympathy to those who have be affect by the crime that my hon . friend outline . the Online Safety Act — and its measure that will soon come into force — be there to address that concern directly . I want these power to be use as assertively as possible . just today , I have hear about another story concern Roblox . I expect that company to do well in protect service user , particularly child , on its platform . topical Questions I call Ayoub Khan — not here . if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . at the international investment summit on Monday , some of the world ' s big science and tech firm commit to invest billion of pound in Britain , grow our economy and create new job across our country . in Rome last week , I launch the UK ' s first online safety agreement with the United States . by work with our close partner , home to the world ' s big tech company , we will create a safe online world for our child . finally , on behalf of the whole House , I congratulate Sir Demis Hassabis and Geoffrey Hinton on the Nobel prize they win last week . their extraordinary achievement be testament to the phenomenal level of AI talent foster in Britain today . there be numerous example of the damage that out of control social medium and mobile phone usage be do to our young people , include in my area of Fife . the Courier newspaper have play an important role in highlight this . do the Secretary of State recognise the concern that the safe phone Bill — the Protection of Children ( Digital Safety and Data Protection ) Bill — present today by my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) and back by many hon . member across the House , seek to address ? I pay tribute to the Courier for expose some of these issue . we must keep child and vulnerable people safe when they be online . I intend to ensure that safety be bake in from the outset . when it come to keep child safe in this country , everything be on the table and I be open minded about how we move forward to achieve a much safe environment . company release product into our society should see that as a privilege , not a right . I have high expectation , on behalf of this country , to ensure that safety be bake in from the start . I call the shadow Secretary of State . do the Secretary of State fully disclose to the Civil Service Commission the labour link of one of the most senior civil service appointment , or the £ 66 , 000 donation he receive ? every donation that be make to this party in opposition have be declare in the appropriate way . I be proud to be part of a party that raise standard in public life rather than vote to lower they . [ interruption . ] I be also proud to be part of a party that come into government and attract talent to work for it , whereas when the Conservatives see talent , they libel it . thank to Whitehall Watch , we have a copy of the form . it be clear the Secretary of State fail to mention the conflict of interest , as require by the ministerial code . in the word of the Prime Minister ' s favourite pop star , some would say he be " guilty as sin " . will he refer himself to the adviser on standard , or do we have to wait for the Prime Minister to finish organise vip motorcade and do it for he ? there we have it — a party that attack civil servant and the world ' s great talent gravitating towards this party and this Government , to work for they . when he see talent in Government , he libel it and saddle the taxpayer with the bill . this Government attract talent and I be proud of that . the first Farnborough International Space Show will take place in my constituency in March next year . with space agency from across the world already sign up to attend , the show will allow the UK to stand on the world stage and showcase our position as a convenor of global innovation . will the Secretary of State and the UK Space Agency pledge their support to the show and will he join I at this inaugural event ? Farnborough have do an astonishing job at get british aviation , which I have support , into the global news . my dad serve in the Fleet Air Arm back in the 1960 , and I go with he many time to Farnborough to see the plane he work on up in the sky . as a country and a House , we should celebrate the fact that Farnborough be now move into space . I be very grateful for what Farnborough be do , and of course I will be there to participate in the event in any way that be meaningful . build Digital UK have recently classify Devon , include rural area such as dartmoor national park , as type c procurement under Project Gigabit . however , there be concern about how agile and timely its delivery will be . will the Minister meet I to discuss the speedy roll - out of broadband in dartmoor national park ? it seem — [ interruption . ] it seem I have never be so popular ! I be very happy to meet the hon . Lady , as she make a serious point . we want every single part of this country to share in the digital future . we can do that only if we have the infrastructure that we need everywhere in the UK . I know that the Minister share the delight that many of we feel when it be announce that researcher from the UK - base AI company Google DeepMind be to share a Nobel prize for their work on protein folding , a technology that will help shape economy of the future . as founder of Labour Women in Tech , I want this technological growth to be diverse , so what be the Government do to ensure both that the UK remain a global leader in this tech space and that my constituent in South Derbyshire be able to trust that this technology can and will benefit everyone ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for all the work that she do to encourage more woman into tech . it be great to know that the tech world be full not just of " tech bro " , but quite a lot of tech sister as well . we be commit to build on the UK ' s success as a global AI leader , and the upcoming AI action plan demonstrate that commitment to ensure the safe development of AI model by introduce bind regulation on a handful of company develop the most powerful AI system , foster trust in those technology . we will also continue — order . we be now move to Prime Minister ' s question . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 16 October . Alex Salmond be a monumental figure in Scottish and UK politic . he leave a last legacy . I know that the deep condolence of the whole House be with Moira , his family and his loved one . this week , we also remember our colleague and friend , Sir David Amess , whose kindness and commitment to public service continue to inspire we all . I know how deeply this be feel by those on the Opposition Benches , and I be so glad that his plaque be here in the House with we . I also wish to acknowledge the extraordinary life of Holocaust survivor Lily Ebert whose message of hope show such courage . may her memory be a blessing . we also extend our sympathy to the family of General Sir Mike Jackson . he be an inspirational leader of the British Army and serve with distinction . I know the whole House will join I in wish the good of luck to the new England manager , Thomas Tuchel . I will not hold his old job against he , but I wish he well in the new one . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . in last week ' s maternity service debate , we hear of the devastating impact of the removal of consultant - lead maternity service from hospital . under the previous Government ' s unfunded new hospital programme , there be proposal to remove consultant - lead maternity service from our hospital in Winchester . can the Prime Minister reassure I and my constituent that , under the new Government , consultant - lead maternity and A & E service will remain in Winchester , and will he commit to funding properly the backlog of maintenance issue that have develop in our hospital ? I thank the hon . member for raise that very important issue and for champion the voice of woman in his constituency . we be committed to ensure that all woman and baby receive safe , compassionate and personalised care through pregnancy , birth and the critical following month . reconfiguration of the service , as he know , be a matter for the integrate care board , which be important , as it allow decision to be make locally and to be tailor to local interest . all change should be base on evidence , be clinically lead and involve engagement with patient to ensure that they will deliver well outcome . this be a very important matter . Whitby InterActive have provide inclusive play scheme and holiday activity for child and young people with special educational need and disability for 26 year . it have be a lifeline for family continually fail by conservative government , but InterActive be set to close due to a funding shortfall . do the Prime Minister agree that action to tackle the crisis in SEND provision be urgently need and that charity , such as InterActive , deserve our support more than ever ? yes , I do , and I know this be a concern time for family who rely on the brilliant work of Whitby InterActive . child with special educational need and disability have be fail for too long . it come up repeatedly in the House , with parent struggle to get their child the support they need and deserve . we must raise the standard for every child so that they can succeed in education . we will fix the foundation and ensure that every child can achieve their potential . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister ' s word of tribute to Alex Salmond and the Holocaust survivor Lily Ebert , and thank he for his kind word about Sir David Amess , whom we remember fondly . we be think of all their family at this moment . this week , China have carry out unwarranted , aggressive and intimidatory military exercise in the Taiwan strait . our ally be rightly concerned . after worry report that the Government may have intervene to stop a visit to the UK by the former taiwanese President , will the Prime Minister confirm that the Foreign Secretary will use his meeting in Beijing this week to condemn China ' s dangerous escalatory act in the strait ? the continued military activity in the strait be not conducive to peace and stability . stability in the Taiwan strait be in all of our interest . on the wide point that he raise , we will co - operate where we can as permanent member of the UN Security Council on issue such as net zero and health and trade , compete where we have different interest , and challenge — the point he make be absolutely right — where it be need to protect national security , human right and our value . we will put that challenge in . give what the Prime Minister say — I agree of course that we must engage and should use that engagement for our national interest — I hope that the Foreign Secretary will unequivocally condemn this military escalation and stand up for democracy in Taiwan . the whole House will be concern about the fate of the democracy campaigner Jimmy Lai . he be a british citizen who have be wrongly imprison in Hong Kong for four year . the previous Government pressure China for his release . do the Prime Minister agree that this be a politically motivate prosecution and that it be a breach of China ' s legal obligation to Hong Kong under the sino - british declaration ? yes , and that case , as the right hon . Gentleman will understand , be a priority for the Government . we call on the Hong Kong authority to release immediately our british national . the Foreign Secretary raise this case in his first meeting with China ' s Foreign Minister and we will continue to do so . I thank the Prime Minister for that answer . as he know , China have become a decisive enabler of Russia ' s war against Ukraine , now supply the vast majority of Russia ' s import military micro - electronic and component and worsen the suffering of the ukrainian people . will the Prime Minister confirm that he be prepared to sanction any chinese business or individual involve in aid Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , include impose secondary sanction on financial institution ? yes . we have call for that in the past and we continue to do so . I hope that this be an issue where we can have unity across the House . yes , I assure the Prime Minister of our support . it be something that the last Government begin . the United States recently expand their sanction and I hope the new Government will continue to look at do the same . the last government also establish a new system of registration and monitoring to protect the UK from interference from foreign state , include China , Russia and Iran . the foreign influence registration scheme be describe as essential by MI5 in the fight to help to keep Britain safe , but since the Prime Minister take office , he have halt its implementation . why ? that be not correct . that be very clearly what the Government have say . only last week , the Prime Minister say at the Dispatch Box that he would give the security force " the power that they need " . — [ Official Report , 9 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 297 . ] if he be to fulfil that promise , I urge he to get up to speed on this issue and implement the scheme . furthermore , Parliament ' s Intelligence and Security Committee have warn that british university be increasingly a rich feeding ground for China to exert political influence over we . that be why we pass the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , with new power to help to defend university from that threat , but the new Education Secretary have since block it . can the Prime Minister tell we how , without that tool , the Government will prevent chinese influence over our university ? I really do not think that party political point on security and intelligence — [ interruption . ] throughout the last Parliament , we stand with the Government on all question of security and intelligence , because it be important to the outside world that we do so . I work with the security and intelligence service for five year prosecute case . I know at first hand , as a lawyer , the work that they do . I have know at first hand , as the Prime Minister , the work that they do . we support they in everything that we do , and the right hon . Gentleman know that . the FIR scheme and the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act be new tool — new set of power — that the previous Government pass in order to give our university and security service the power that they need to tackle a grow threat . the Opposition will of course continue to support the Government in protect our national security , but we believe that those tool be need , and we be concern by report that the new Government have pause their implementation or indeed scrap they . finally , the chinese Government have sanction multiple member of our Parliament for champion human right . as a result , they have face intimidation , abuse and surveillance . I commend you , Mr Speaker , for your defence of the right of every Member of this House to speak out on crucial issue without fear of retaliation from foreign state . I know that the Prime Minister will agree with that too , so this week will the Foreign Secretary in his meeting not just raise the issue but tell the Chinese Government to lift those sanction on our colleague ? yes — we speak with one voice . the right hon . Gentleman speak about the record of the last Government . that record be 14 year of failure . six year of austerity , three year of Brexit logjam , then Johnson , Truss and the present Leader of the Opposition — utter failure . this Government be elect to do thing differently , make fair choice , and most importantly , give Britain its future back . we will fix the foundation , with a long - term plan to grow our economy , protect work people and rebuild our country . two year ago , Thurrock Council be lead into effective bankruptcy by the then Conservative Administration , in no small part due to an investment of hundred of million of pound in a solar farm scheme run by a conman . give the Prime Minister ' s commitment to integrity in public life , will he support my call , and those of my constituent , for a public inquiry , so that those responsible can finally be hold to account ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , because year of underfunding have leave council face huge budget pressure — [ interruption . ] opposition Members yawn ; they do not know the impact that it have on work people up and down the country , who rely on public service . what have happen in Thurrock be shocking . we be commit to reset the relationship , and help those under intervention to recover and reform . fourteen year be a long time of destroy local service , and it be clear that it will take time to fix they . we will get council back on their foot by provide multi - year funding settlement , but ultimately we have to grow our economy . I be surprised that the Leader of the Opposition do not welcome the £ 63 billion of investment that we be able to announce on Monday . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I echo the Prime Minister ' s tribute to Alex Salmond , Sir David Amess and Lily Ebert . I welcome the news that minister be go to review the carer ' s allowance repayment scandal , after campaign by carer organisation , the Guardian and the Liberal Democrats , culminate in our motion on the Order Paper today , but do the Prime Minister agree that the evidence need for the review be already long establish , and many of the decision self - evident ? will he and his colleague vote for our motion today , so that we can write off the overpayment , end the crazy cliff edge to the earning limit now , and have a full review of the support that carer deserve ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that really important issue , which be affect a number of people . we have launch an independent review into the carer ' s allowance overpayment , to look at the circumstance of the overpayment and see what go wrong and what can be do to put it right , because carer must get the support that they deserve . I be grateful to he for raise it and I be glad that we have be able to take this action today to go forward on that really important issue . I thank the Prime Minister for that answer , and ask he that minister listen to the voice of carer throughout the review . let I turn to the middle east . israeli Finance Minister Smotrich have say that starve 2 million people in Gaza might be " justified and moral " . National Security Minister Ben - Gvir call settler who kill a 19 - year - old on the west bank " hero " . after my visit to Israel and Palestine last February , have witness the damage that those extremist Ministers in the Netanyahu Government be do , I call on the last UK Government to sanction they . they refuse , but we now learn that the former Foreign Secretary be consider it . will the Prime Minister now sanction Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich ? we be look at that , because those be obviously abhorrent comment , as the right hon . Gentleman rightly say , along with other really concern activity in the west bank and across the region . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be dire : the death toll have surpass 42 , 000 and access to basic service be become much hard . Israel must take all possible step to avoid civilian casualty , to allow aid into Gaza in much great volume , and to provide the UN and humanitarian partner the ability to operate effectively . along with France , the UK will convene an urgent meeting of the UN Security Council to address that . it have be an honour to meet my constituent Tom Morton , a young person in care who care so deeply about politic and community — he be sit in the Public Gallery today . young people in care be at disproportionate risk of criminal and cynical exploitation by drug baron through county line . will the Prime Minister tell Tom and the House what step the Government will take to prevent vulnerable child in care from become involve in county line operation ? I welcome Tom to the House . it be encouraging to see young people engage in democracy . county line be a real problem , and all of we will have experience its effect and impact in our constituency . our county line programme focus on prevent young people from be exploit and lure into criminal gang , which be far too common , and we be committed to introduce a new offence of child criminal exploitation — that be long overdue . we will also create a network of Young Futures hub , staff with professional youth worker , mental health support worker and career adviser , to provide focused support for young people , help they to fulfil their ambition and prevent they from be draw into crime . Plaid Cymru , too , pay tribute to Alex Salmond and Sir David Amess . one in five people in Wales be on an NHS waiting list . the Secretary of State for Wales say that a new cross - border NHS plan would bring down Welsh surgery waiting list , but the Labour First Minister of Wales contradict she and deny that it have anything to do with bring down waiting list . be they make it up as they go along ? the difference be that we now have a Westminster Government who want to work with the Welsh Government to deliver for the people of Wales . for 14 long year the Welsh Government be in a position where the then UK Government be in conflict with they . now , we will work together , collaborate and ensure that we deliver across Wales . will my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister join I in praise our Labour police and crime commissioner for Cleveland , Matt Storey , who be work with I to tackle knife crime , drug crime and antisocial behaviour in Stockton North , and will he assure my constituent that under this Labour Government we will see more police officer in Stockton and Billingham ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s work with the new Labour police and crime commissioner . it be sad to say that in Cleveland , the number of full - time equivalent police officer fall by over 12 % under the last government ; when you fail on the economy and growth , those be the type of thing that happen across the country . as part of our neighbourhood policing guarantee , we will put 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police and police community support officer back on our street and ensure that every community have a name local officer . through our safe street mission , we will tackle illegal drug , halve knife crime and crack down on antisocial behaviour , and go after the gang that lure young people into violence . as evidence by some early question , issue surround SEND , local government finance and adult social care affect all of our constituent . let we be honest : for too long , both party have duck and dodge take the difficult but necessary decision . in order to give certainty to our constituent and confidence to those who provide those vital service , do the Prime Minister share my assessment that there be considerable merit in formal cross - party work on those issue , so that we can share take those difficult decision in order to improve outcome for our constituent ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise the question of SEND , because it be a really important issue — I think this be the fourth time in two Prime Minister ' s Question Times that it have be raise , by member on both side of the House . I quibble with his suggestion that it be both party , since his party be in power for 14 year , but the spirit in which he propose that this work should be cross - party be something that we should take up , because SEND be such an important issue . it affect so many child and parent , so notwithstanding that quibble , I be very happy to work across the House on an issue as important as SEND . the Fairways Networking Group be a group of small business in my constituency , all of which operate on tight margin . can my right hon . and learn Friend help I to reassure this group that not only do they have nothing to fear from the Employment Rights Bill , but they have plenty to gain as exemplar employer ? yes : the Employment Rights Bill be pro - worker and pro - growth , and proudly so . I do not believe we can build a strong economy by have people in insecure work . the conservative party go against every protection for worker — it be against the minimum wage , and it be against these new protection — but the vast majority of business , large and small , already know that invest in their human capital and treat people properly at work be what produce growth . here be the big political divide : the Conservatives always oppose worker ’ right , and we will always champion they . I associate the Green party with the Prime Minister ' s tribute to Alex Salmond and Sir David Amess . some 99 . 7 % of new patient in the east of England be unable to find an NHS dentist — it be the worst - affect area in the country . my constituent want urgent action , so when will the Government begin the critical negotiation on dental contract reform so that no one in the 21st century have to pull out their own tooth ? will it be by the end of this year ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important issue . dentistry be leave in a shocking state by the last government : I be shocked to hear that the common cause of A & e admission for six to 10 - year - old in this country ' s child ' s hospital be to have tooth take out , because of the failure of the last Government . that be shocking on any analysis , and we will put it right ; we will take the necessary step , and we will work across the House to do so as quickly as possible . last night in this House , we take the first step in abolish the hereditary principle of privilege in the other place . I be host the let ' s End poverty coalition at a meeting upstairs , where we hear that for many , the experience of poverty feel hereditary too . will the Prime Minister meet with I and those with live experience of poverty to find way in which we can hear from those with that live experience and break the cycle of poverty ? my hon . friend make a good point . the conservative party want to get rid of maternity pay , but keep hereditary peer . it be the same old Tories . this be an important issue that she have raise . the letter be honest , powerful and important , and I think they hold up a mirror to our country . we will deliver a Budget that drive economic growth , improve the life of work people , fix our public service and rebuild our country with a decade of national renewal . I call Ann davy . Diolch , Llefarydd . my constituent Janette Crawford suffer from I and chronic pain . the cold , damp condition of a Welsh winter be go to mean a lot more muscle soreness and fatigue for she . she have lose her winter fuel payment due to have a very small saving pot . with 86 % of pensioner in poverty , or just above that line , to miss out in Wales , will the Prime Minister establish a social energy tariff to help people like Janette ? on this issue of winter fuel payment , we have inherit a £ 22 billion black hole . [ interruption . ] conservative Members should be apologise , not groan , for leave the country in such a state . we be committed to the triple lock . the point about pension be really important , and the triple lock mean that the pension will increase again by £ 460 next year . that mean pensioner under Labour will be well off , because we be go to stabilise the economy after that lot lose control of it . in Britain , the big killer of man under 50 be suicide . we have some of the bad paternity leave in Europe , and boy be 50 % less likely than girl to pursue high education . I know that my right hon . and learn Friend take this very seriously , and his commitment on reduce suicide rate be very welcome . can the Prime Minister update the House on this work , and do he agree with I that it be vital that we tackle these issue head on because of the increase alienation and mental health issue among young man ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this vital issue . the statistic on male suicide be truly shocking . I go to an event a few year ago here in this place , where everyone in attendance be ask if they have lose someone to suicide , and I then reflect on my own experience , which be profound — as it be , I could see , for everybody across the room , and will be across this House — so reduce death from suicide be a vital part of our health mission . we be recruit an additional 8 , 500 mental health worker specially train to support people at risk of suicide to provide fast treatment and ease pressure on our service . Group Captain Lizzy Nicholl have an exemplary career with the RAF until she be force to resign for refuse to implement illegal recruitment order . despite inquiry after inquiry vindicating Lizzy on every count , the RAF and MOD have fail to offer her fair compensation , and those responsible have walk away . shamefully , during the election purdah period , in what I believe be an attempt to subvert ministerial oversight , she be offer a derisory £ 2 , 000 by official . I have document prove beyond doubt that the former Chief of the Air Staff lie to the then Defence Secretary about her case . the Prime Minister say he believe in right wrong , so will he meet Lizzy , and help ensure that those responsible do not just walk away and that Lizzy get the justice she so very much deserve ? I thank the hon . member for raise what be obviously a very important case , and she be right to do so . I be not across the individual detail of it , but it obviously do need to be look into . so we will commit to look into it , and I will make sure that she get a meeting with the relevant Minister to lay out such detail as she have and to get some answer as to our inquiry . child ' s social care in this country be now in crisis . vulnerable child be regularly place hundred of mile from home , often in unregulated and unsafe accommodation . meanwhile , private company be make record profit on the back of struggle and desperate local authority . frankly , this be an issue — a national scandal — that do not get enough attention . today , I will be present my private Member ' s Bill , which will offer modest reform in this area , but will the Prime Minister reassure I and thousand of family across the country that it be a priority of his Government to fix the social care crisis and our family court ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue and be a champion on it . he be absolutely right about the appalling inheritance : one in four child in absolute poverty — that be a terrible inheritance — and too many vulnerable child in unregulated accommodation . through our child ' s wellbee Bill , we will put child and their wellbeing at the heart of the education and social care system . we will also provide a home for all young care leaver to ensure that they be not homeless , and remove the barrier to opportunity so every child can thrive in safe and love home . during the election campaign , the now Prime Minister make a hell of a lot of promise , some of which I be sure he will remember . of particular importance to my constituent in Andover and North West Hampshire be a promise make on 18 June during a campaign visit to Basingstoke , when he make an unequivocal , unconditional commitment to rebuild our local hospital . be that a promise on which we can rely ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise that ; it be obviously of huge importance to his constituent and he be right to do so . as he know , we be review the programme . the programme that the last Government put in place for 40 new hospital have a number of flaw : they be not all hospital , they be not new , and they be not fund , so we be review it . he be right to raise this matter , and I will ensure that he have a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss the development in his constituency . it will matter to his constituent who be listen to this , and it be important that they know where the failure lie . I welcome the Government ' s historic investment in carbon capture and storage technology for Teesside and Merseyside . this week I have be at the sector ' s conference , and the feeling there be that this be a Government who be deliver after year of delay . will the Prime Minister recognise the unique potential that Teesside have for job , prosperity and economic growth into the future ? yes , and you will have observe , Mr Speaker , that on Monday we have a very successful investment summit , with £ 63 billion come into this country , job in every part of the UK , and a clear message from business that they be prepared to invest now under this new Labour Government . part of that be a £ 22 billion commitment to carbon capture , usage and storage , create the first cluster in the world include , as my hon . friend point out , in various part of the country . we will support those job and investment . we will grow our economy and rebuild our country . North Cornwall be an amazing place to live and work , but a top - down approach from Westminster have fail we . public service be chronically underfunde , with young people force to move away to pursue career elsewhere , and affordable housing be a promise that be simply never keep . will the Prime Minister meet all six cornish mp to discuss devolution for Cornwall , with a cornish assembly that recognise our unique culture , language and national minority status , so that we can finally unleash Cornwall ' s economic potential ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise that . I do believe in transfer power out of Westminster and into the hand of leader who know their community well . those with skin in the game know what be good for their community . we be already make step in the south - west by sign the devolution agreement for Devon and Torbay , and I encourage local authority to work with their neighbour to pursue deep and wide devolution for their area . I will ensure that the hon . Member have the meeting that he be ask for . as the Prime Minister work for a ceasefire and the return of the hostage , he will have the support of member across the House . he will have note the comment from the White House call for urgent action to deal with the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , and for the Netanyahu Government to increase access to aid and the amount of aid get through . do the Prime Minister agree with those comment from the White House , and what representation be he make on that matter ? yes , I do agree with those remark , and we be constantly make representation on this with our partner . there be an urgent need , as there have be for a long time , for more aid to get into Gaza . it be a desperate situation , and Israel must comply with its international humanitarian law obligation . that be why we be convene a session of the UN Security Council , with other , to address that issue . Speaker ' s statement I should inform the House that there have be an issue with the publication of the datum from last night ' s Division on the reason amendment to the Second Reading of the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . the result of the Division be not in doubt . as always , it be determine by the Tellers ' count , as announce in the Chamber last night . the name of the Members record on the pass reader terminal be not available on the usual timetable as a result of human error . those name have now be publish on the CommonsVotes app and will be available in Hansard online shortly . the House authority be take step to prevent this from happen again . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I be go to raise the issue you have just speak about as a point of order . my concern be that , for the first time ever in my experience within this House , the list of member participate in a Division have not be publish in the hard copy of Hansard . I ask you to insist that Hansard publish the list in hard copy , rather than rely upon its be put online . can I also ask how it come about ? this be to do with new technology , and when I inquire about this matter early today , the list be still not available at 11 . 30 this morning . why be it not ? let I deal with the hon . Gentleman ' s main point . I can assure he that we will get it print , even if it be on a separate sheet , to make sure that who vote what way be available in hard copy . that be the key thing . on his other point , this be human error . it be not about technology ; it be nothing to do with technology . sometimes mistake be make . I do not want to go on a witch hunt over a mistake make by human error . what I will say be that we will put something in place to ensure that this do not happen again . I be sure he would agree that that be the good way to deal with this matter . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the Prime Minister say during Prime Minister ' s question , in answer to the Leader of the Opposition , that it be not correct that the current Government have postpone the implementation of the foreign influence registration scheme , yet on 14 August the Government website be update and a statement be proactively issue by the Home Office state that the FIR scheme be " no long expect " to come into force in 2024 . that be a postponement , so please will you insist that the Prime Minister return to the House to correct the record and ensure that we be not mislead ? the hon . Lady have be here long enough — [ interruption . ] let I at least finish before you start chip back at I . I be grateful to she for give I notice of her point of order . as she well know , I be not responsible for the accuracy of the Prime Minister ' s answer in this House . however , she have put the point on the record , and I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear her remark . let we see where we go from there . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . some of we be hope to get an opportunity to ask the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology about the step his Department be take to improve diversity and inclusion in the science , technology , engineering and mathematic workforce , but we be not able to do so , because the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) do not turn up to ask the question on the Order Paper . I know that you , Mr Speaker , and your staff have be at tremendous pain — order . we both know that that be not a point of order . you have put on the record the point you be — [ interruption . ] no , it be a continuation of question that finish quite a long time ago . you have make the point that you be not able to get the question in , and we will leave it at that . I be not open up that debate at this stage . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the Prime Minister pay tribute to Sir David Amess at question — we all still miss he — and to General Sir Mike Jackson , who serve a number of tour in Northern Ireland , as do hundred of thousand of british serviceman uphold the rule of law . hundred be kill and thousand be maim by bomb . we bring in the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 to stop they be endlessly investigate and reinvestigate at the hand of Sinn F é in . Labour say that it would repeal it , so the whole cycle will begin again . Mr Speaker , have you be give any indication of when the Government will come to the House , make a statement and explain their reasoning for put all those vulnerable servicemen at risk yet again ? the right hon . Member have put his point on the record . I have have no indication of a statement . bill present Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Kim Leadbeater , support by Kit Malthouse , Christine Jardine , Jake Richards , Si â n Berry , Rachel Hopkins , Mr Peter Bedford , Tonia Antoniazzi , Sarah Green , Dr Jeevun Sandher , Ruth Cadbury and Paula Barker , present a Bill to allow adult who be terminally ill , subject to safeguard and protection , to request and be provide with assistance to end their own life ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 12 ) . New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Max Wilkinson , support by Mr Gideon Amos , Alex Sobel , Pippa Heylings , Dr Simon Opher , Dr Danny Chambers , Ellie Chowns , Layla Moran , Carla Denyer , Edward Morello , Calum Miller and Anna Sabine , present a Bill to require the installation of solar photovoltaic generation equipment on new home ; to set minimum standard for compliance with that requirement ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 13 ) . climate and Nature Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dr Roz Savage , support by Alex Sobel , Olivia Blake , Dr Simon Opher , Clive Lewis , Nadia Whittome , Sir Roger Gale , Simon Hoare , Pippa Heylings , Carla Denyer , Kirsty Blackman and Llinos Medi , present a Bill to require the United Kingdom to achieve climate and nature target ; to give the Secretary of State a duty to implement a strategy to achieve those target ; to establish a Climate and Nature Assembly to advise the Secretary of State in create that strategy ; to give duty to the Committee on Climate Change and the Joint Nature Conservation Committee regard the strategy and target ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 14 ) . water Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Clive Lewis present a Bill to set target and objective relate to water , include in relation to the ownership of water company and to climate mitigation and adaptation ; to require the Secretary of State to publish and implement a strategy for achieve those target and objective ; to establish a Commission on Water to advise the Secretary of State on that strategy ; to make provision about the power and duty of that Commission , include a requirement to establish a Citizens ' Assembly on water ownership ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 15 ) . protection of Children ( Digital Safety and Data Protection ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Josh MacAlister , support by Jess Asato , Claire Coutinho , Florence Eshalomi , Kit Malthouse , Lola McEvoy , Joe Powell , Joani Reid , Jake Richards , Lucy Rigby , Dan Tomlinson and Caroline Voaden , present a Bill to make provision for the protection of child access digital service and content . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 16 ) . Rare Cancers Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dr Scott Arthur , support by Dame Siobhain McDonagh , Dame Meg Hillier , Monica Harding , Charlie Maynard , Sarah Owen , Johanna Baxter , Patricia Ferguson , Douglas McAllister , Blair McDougall , Elaine Stewart and Kirsteen Sullivan , present a Bill to make provision to incentivise research and investment into the treatment of rare type of cancer ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 17 ) . European Union ( Withdrawal Arrangements ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Jim Allister , support by Sir Iain Duncan Smith , Graham Stringer , Gavin Robinson , Nigel Farage , Robin Swann , Sammy Wilson , Richard Tice , Carla Lockhart , Alex Easton , Jim Shannon and Mr Gregory Campbell , present a Bill to make provision to modify the effect on domestic law of arrangement relate to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 6 December , and to be print ( Bill 18 ) . Free School Meals ( automatic registration of eligible Children ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Peter Lamb present a Bill to make provision about the automatic registration of all child eligible for free school meal ; to provide for an opt - out where the family wish ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 19 ) . control drug ( Procedure for Specification ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Alex McIntyre present a Bill to change the procedure for amend Schedule 2 to the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 6 December , and to be print ( Bill 20 ) . license Hours Extensions Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Andrew Ranger , support by Mrs Emma Lewell - Buck , Claire Hughes , Gill German , Catherine Fookes , David Williams , Connor Naismith , Mrs Sarah Russell and Dr Allison Gardner , present a Bill to amend the Licensing Act 2003 so that license hour order can be make by negative resolution statutory instrument . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 21 ) . look after child ( Distance Placements ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Jake Richards present a Bill to require local authority to publish information about look after child in distance placement ; to require local authority to develop and publish sufficiency plan in respect of their duty under section 22 g of the Children Act 1989 ; to require the Secretary of State to publish a national sufficiency plan in respect of look after child in distance placement ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 22 ) . Absent Voting ( election in Scotland and Wales ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Tracy Gilbert , support by Patricia Ferguson , Kirsteen Sullivan and Douglas McAllister , present a Bill to make provision about absent voting in connection with local government election in Scotland and Wales , election to the Scottish Parliament and election to Senedd Cymru ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 23 ) . unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Linsey Farnsworth , support by Danny Beales and Mr Jonathan Brash , present a Bill to create an offence of unauthorised entry at football match for which a football ban order can be impose follow conviction . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 6 December , and to be print ( Bill 24 ) . Space Industry ( Indemnities ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Grady present a Bill to require operator licence authorise the carrying out of spaceflight activity to specify the licensee ' s indemnity limit . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 25 ) . short - term let Accommodation Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Rachael Maskell , support by Markus Campbell - Savours , Alison Hume , Mr Richard Quigley , Andy Slaughter , Neil Duncan - Jordan , Dr Rupa Huq , Ruth Jones , Euan Stainbank , Peter Prinsley , Tim Farron and Lizzi Collinge , present a Bill to make provision for the licensing of short - term let accommodation ; to make provision about the marketing of short - term let accommodation ; to make provision about plan permission in respect of short - term let accommodation ; to require the Secretary of State to publish guidance about the management of short - term let accommodation ; to make provision about small business rate relief for short - term let accommodation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 26 ) . Fur ( Import and Sale ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ruth Jones , support by Sir Roger Gale , Adam Jogee , Tim Farron , Alex Sobel , Barry Gardiner , David Taylor , Rachael Maskell and Simon Hoare , present a Bill to prohibit the import and sale of fur ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 27 ) . Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dr Danny Chambers , support by Dr Neil Hudson , Vikki Slade , James MacCleary , Max Wilkinson , Susan Murray , Lisa Smart , Mr Paul Kohler , Liz Jarvis , Mr Lee Dillon , Adam Dance and Alison Bennett , present a Bill to make provision for and in connection with restrict the importation and non - commercial movement of dog , cat and ferret . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 28 ) . Fireworks Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Owen , support by Jessica Morden and Andrew Pakes , present a Bill to make provision about the sale of firework ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 29 ) . I have a good go at that one as well . Gambling Act 2005 ( Monetary Limits for Lotteries ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Wendy Chamberlain , support by Ben Lake , Pete Wishart , Rebecca Harris and Tonia Antoniazzi , present a Bill to remove monetary limit on proceed from the mandatory condition of lottery operating licence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 30 ) . sale of Tickets ( Sporting and Cultural Events ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dr Rupa Huq , support by Jim Shannon , Rosie Duffield , Lillian Jones , Nadia Whittome , Christine Jardine , Wera Hobhouse , Sarah Champion , Dawn Butler , Bambos Charalambous , Martin Vickers and Kim Johnson , present a Bill to make provision about transparency of ticket price for sporting and cultural event ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 6 December , and to be print ( Bill 31 ) . opposition Day - 3rd Allotted DayOpposition Day Carer ' s Allowance I inform the House that I have select amendment ( a ) table in the name of the Prime Minister . I call Ed Davey . I beg to move , that this House recognise the remarkable contribution that the UK ' s 5 . 7 million unpaid carer make to society and the huge financial challenge many face ; note with deep concern that ten of thousand of carer be unfairly punish for overpayment of Carer ' s Allowance due to the £ 151 - a - week earning limit ; believe that carer should not be force to face the stress , humiliation and fear cause by demand for repayment of Carer ' s allowance ; condemn the previous Government for fail to address this scandal ; call on the Government to write - off exist overpayment immediately , raise the Carer ' s Allowance earning limit and introduce a taper to end the unfair cliff edge ; and far call on the Government to conduct a comprehensive review of support for carer to help people juggle care and work . it be a great honour to open the first full Liberal Democrat Opposition day in 15 year . I assure the House that we will not waste our precious debate on the sort of political game playing to which opposition day often fall victim . instead , we will use they to focus on the thing that really matter to ordinary people , and to tell Ministers directly about the real problem that our constituent face . that bring I to our first motion on unpaid carer , or family carer as I prefer to say . they be people look after relative , friend or neighbour , and they do a remarkable and important job . look after someone they love can be rewarding and full of love — whether they be a parent of a disabled child , a teenager look after a terminally ill parent or a close relative of an elderly family member — but it be far from glamorous . care for a family member can be relentless and exhausting . as the House know , I have be a carer for much of my life but , more importantly , I have also have the great privilege of meeting and hearing from thousand of carer in my constituency and across the United Kingdom . I have some understanding of the challenge that carer face every single day : the worry , the exhaustion , the lack of break and the financial difficulty , too . Britain ' s carer deserve our support . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will take this as a friendly intervention , as he know what I be go to say . he talk about family carer and mention teenager who support love one , which be important , but do he agree that we should recognise the role of young carer ? have work with they , I know that they can be as young as five year old and support a love one or family member . the hon . member be absolutely right . I include young carer ; indeed , I be a member of the all - party parliamentary group on young carer and young adult carer , and I invite he to join we . it be chair by a well - establish Labour Member . young carer be very much part of our thinking , but for some , who will not be young — order . may I say to the hon . member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) , please do not walk in front of member when they be intervene ? please , can we think of other ? for carer who can receive carer ' s allowance , which do not include young carer , it be a lifeline . carer ' s allowance be the main financial support available but , frankly , as the main way that we support family carer , it be not fit for purpose . I commend the right hon . Gentleman for his endeavour in the debate , which we support , and on his compassion for carer give his own experience . someone who care for their parent all day and then work a couple of hour in the evening be preclude from receive carer ' s allowance . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that those people , who do not get car ' s allowance because they happen to work a few hour , should qualify ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that point . that should certainly be part of the review , but one or two other issue , which I will talk about , be critical to reform probably even before that . at just £ 81 . 90 a week , carer ' s allowance be the low benefit of its kind . for someone do 35 hour of care a week — the minimum period for eligibility — that be just £ 2 . 34 an hour . it be not just the low rate of the carer ' s allowance that worry I but the fact that the eligibility rule be inflexible and very badly design , chief among they be the earning limit of £ 151 a week . even for someone on minimum wage , that be just 13 hour and 20 minute a week . the earn limit operate like a cliff edge . as soon as someone make £ 151 . 01 a week , they lose the whole carer ' s allowance — every penny of the £ 81 . 90 . it act as a significant barrier and a major disincentive to work . it mean carer on low income can not work a bit more to help make end meet , so it be bad for they , bad for the person they be care for , bad for their employer and bad for the economy . but here be where thing get bad . there be ten of thousand of carer who go slightly over the earning limit , mostly without realise it . maybe they pick up an extra shift , happen to get an end - of - year bonus , or understandably do not realise the way carer ' s allowance operate in such a daft way . even though the Department for Work and Pensions get regular alert from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs when people go over the earning limit , it have not be tell carer and it keep pay carer ' s allowance until one day , out of the blue , the carer get hit with demand to repay those overpayment , which may have build up over month and year due to the DWP ' s own inaction . back in July , I tell the Prime Minister about one of my constituent , Andrea , who live in Chessington . she be a full - time carer for her mum . back in 2019 , Andrea decide to go back to work part - time in a charity shop — mainly for her mental health , she tell I . she inform the DWP at the time and it continue her payment . five year later , it write to she and say that no , she now have to repay £ 4 , 600 . Andrea say she feel " harass , bully and overwhelmed . " she now do just six hour ' unpaid work a month to avoid go over the earning limit and get into more debt . she say the whole thing make she " want to give up work and give up care . " the right hon . Gentleman refer to mental health . Romi Taylor be a 16 - year - old who care for her mother , who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . Romi recently win an award at the BBC Radio Lancashire ' s make a difference award — you be there , Mr Speaker . many carer find care for a love one to be a lonely place . this be a 16 - year - old taking care of her mother and not have time with her friend . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that carer need to be recognise , and that the support they require beyond benefit , include mental health support , should be — order . may I just say to my constituency neighbour that intervention be mean to be short ? I have a list , so if you want to make a speech I be more than happy because these contribution do matter , but try not to make a speech through intervention . Don ' t follow Mr Shannon — he will mislead you . [ laughter . ] thank you , Mr Speaker . the hon . Gentleman be of course right and I pay tribute to his constituent , who be lucky enough to be present the award by Mr Speaker . he be right about the mental health of carer . nhs datum show that the mental health of carer be twice as poor as it be for the population at large because of the isolation , so that issue be absolutely a part of this debate . rise — I will let the right hon . Gentleman in , but then I do want to make some progress . before the right hon . Gentleman resume his narrative — he speak with huge authority on this subject — can he underline what he tell the House before the previous intervention ? this be a case where someone report what they be do , be wrongly tell it be okay to proceed and be then hit with a bill for thousand of pound retrospectively . surely that be incompetence and maladministration . be there not any way for that person to have recourse to justice ? the right hon . Gentleman make exactly the right point and as her MP I be pursue that line of argument , but we need a change of culture and attitude at the DWP to be able to proceed with these case on behalf of our constituent . she tell I that the whole thing make she want to give up care and give up work . that be how affected she have be . who be it help , when carer feel like that ? I be sure that someone , somewhere in the DWP or the Treasury , think this sort of penny pinch save the Government money , but they could not be more wrong . it be million of carer like Andrea who save the Government money : £ 162 billion a year , accord to Carers UK , through the vital work they do for free . when badly design Government policy fail to support carer and instead push they over the edge , the real cost — an enormous cost — be to taxpayer and the economy . there be so many story like Andrea ' s . government figure suggest that more than 130 , 000 people have outstanding carer ' s allowance debt , some go back year . accord to the DWP ' s own figure , last year alone there be 34 , 500 overpayment due to the earning limit . we have hear how carer have even be threaten with prosecution . this be a terrible scandal : ten of thousand of carer become victim of a system that be suppose to be there to support they . although the story we have hear in recent month have be truly shocking , they be not new . the Work and Pensions Committee launch an inquiry into this issue almost six year ago , back in 2018 . the National Audit Office publish its own report in 2019 . the last Government should have act then , but they do nothing . I raise it with the last Prime Minister . he do nothing . Conservative Ministers fail to tackle it for the entirety of the last Parliament . they just pass it on to the new Government , as yet another part of their legacy . I raise the matter , therefore , at the new Prime Minister ' s first oral question in July . although he be non - committal , I be genuinely pleased and grateful that minister have now announce a review , at least into the scandal of carer ' s allowance overpayment . whether that be in response to our motion , I will let other decide . I hope the Minister will say a lot more about the review when she speak and how the Government be think about that . I hope the debate can be see as the first input to , or kick - off of , that review . I certainly hope the Minister will make it clear that the review will not be a repeat of the type of review we have in the last Parliament , when conservative review be set up primarily for delay and kick issue into the long grass . as I hint at during today ' s Question Time , my concern about the review be that the evidence to make a decision be already well - found , with two recent Select Committee report and mountain of evidence immediately available from organisation such as Carers UK or Carers Trust , and the National Audit Office carry out its second review in just five year over the last four month . I ask the Secretary of State , therefore , to reshape the review that she have announce , because it be self - evident that the vast majority of overpayment of carer ' s allowance should be write off immediately . I accept that there may be a few case of genuine fraud in which that would not be appropriate , but the DWP should not be persecute ten of thousand of carer whose overpayment be cause by the crazy cliff edge in the current carer ' s allowance system , and by the DWP ' s own incompetence in fail to notify they of overpayment immediately . some change could be make to the rule that be just common sense , make it easy for carer to juggle work and care and thus boost our economy , such as raise the earning limit and replace the cliff edge with a taper . there be change that do not need a long review ; there be decision that can be take now , or at least very quickly . however , as our motion say , we need to go far for carer than these obvious and relatively simple decision . the Government should conduct a full - scale review of all support for carer , so that we can make it easy for they to carry on care and to juggle care with work . that will be well for they , well for their love one , and well for our economy . I urge the House to pass the motion . let we not allow carer to be forget and ignore any long . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " society " to the end and add : " ; believe it be essential that carer be provide with the support they need at the time they need it ; condemn the previous Government for fail to address the scandal of demand for repayment of Carer ' s Allowance ; and welcome the Government ' s review into how these overpayment have occur , what good can be do to support those who have accrue they and how to reduce the risk of these problem occur in future . " let I begin by pay tribute to the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . it be excellent that he have bring this subject to the House . I hear what he say about family carer as oppose to unpaid carer , and while I do not want to get involve in a big linguistic debate , I think he make an important point that will be recognise by many carer up and down the country . when we be make policy , we should always listen to those with direct experience . I think that the right hon . Gentleman make his point on behalf of million of people , and it be good that the House have hear it . many people will be personally acquaint with this issue . there be 5 million carer in the UK and about 1 million people be receive carer ' s allowance , so this debate be extremely important . accord to the late census , just under one in 10 people in England and Wales provide unpaid care , but the subject of carer be not at the top of the political agenda nearly as often as it should be . when I be a clinician , people do not even realise that they could be label as carer and could apply to be carer , and be unaware of the gateway that that would provide . might the Government consider do some work to make more people aware that they be undertake caring responsibility , so that they can then obtain the support that be actually out there , if they only know ? that be a very good point , and the hon . Gentleman ' s experience as a clinician be welcome . the Secretary of State have considerable experience of work with carer , and I will alert she to his comment , because I think she would appreciate what he have say . we must never think this be not an issue that do not affect we all . many of we will become carer — if not now , at some point in our life . this affect all of we , and everyone ' s life be different . support for family carer need to be tailor so that it work for the individual and take into account the different circumstance that people face . when you be care for someone , that be a huge part of your life , and it never stop . even if you be work , you be still think about that person for whom you be care day in , day out . it be not just a physical job ; it be a mental , intellectual job , and that be why the issue of stress and how carer be treat be so important . I join the Minister in pay tribute to the million of carer in the country , include those in my constituency . do she agree that when someone be juggle the daily stress of life , it can be difficult to remember to notify the DWP of a change in circumstance , which be require under the current arrangement ? I will come to the review that we will be conduct , but let I make the general point that we in the Government ought to be able to understand the reality of life and take that into account . the position that I have describe make the dire situation we have inherit all the more shameful . family carer be be push to breaking point . they have too often be force to quit job that they want to keep and could keep with the right support , which isolate they and shrink our workforce . with the right support , we could help carer and help our economy as well . to rub salt into the wound , we have inherit a system whereby busy carer , already struggle under a huge weight of responsibility , have be leave have to repay large sum of overpaid carer ' s allowance , sometimes amount to thousand of pound . it seem as though what be suppose to be a safety net design to catch those in need be instead design to catch they out . for some time constituent of mine have find that they be due to repay an overpayment . I always ask they whether they remember when they make their complaint . all telephone conversation with the Department be record , so there be a way of make it clear that the fault lie not with the applicant but with the Department . be there also a way of ensure that those who have be penalise unfairly for follow the Department ' s advice should not have to pay that money ? as the hon . member know , the Department be not responsible for the delivery of social security benefit in Northern Ireland , but I be sure that Northern Ireland ' s Department for Communities will be keep a close eye on the debate and will want to take his point into account . this problem be one of the numerous way in which our social security system be fail the people of this country , with 2 . 8 million leave out of work because they be unwell and more than 4 million child grow up poor , and we have therefore move fast to fix the foundation of the DWP . that include our set up a taskforce to tackle child poverty , extend the household support fund for six month , and hold the first meeting of our new Labour Market Advisory Board . the board ' s expertise and fresh thinking will help we break down barrier to work , such as an inability to balance pay work with family care . this Government have talk about a duty of candour . can the Minister give an assurance that if people work at the DWP have information about maladministration and poor management of the service that they have witness and wish to come forward with that information , they will be protect as whistleblower ? obviously whistleblowe be very important . the Hillsborough law that be be introduce be not my responsibility , so the hon . Lady will understand that I can not go over it extensively , but I will say , as someone who work on the Hillsborough issue for many year , that it be very important to I personally . these problem be significant , and give the scale of the challenge , we will not be able to solve all of they overnight , but we have take important first step , include tackle the issue of overpayment of carer ' s allowance relate to earning . we have all hear the story of some of the thousand of carer who have be affect , we have all hear and know about the stress and anxiety that it have cause they , and we all want — I hope — to establish the fact . to address this problem , we must first truly understand what have go wrong . that be why the DWP have announce today an independent review of overpayment of carer ' s allowance that have exceed the entitlement threshold . the review will investigate how the overpayment have occur , what can well be do to support those who have accrue they , and how to reduce the risk of such problem occur in future . we be delighted that Liz Sayce OBE have agree to lead the review . my colleague the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , and the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , have already meet representative of Carers UK , along with carer themselves , to discuss their report on overpayment , and we will consider the finding of that report alongside the independent review . on that point , do the Minister agree that there should be a failsafe system ? if an overpayment be make and the receiver be not notify , they should be allow not to pay back any of the money . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I be sure that many member will want to provide their view to the review , which be welcome . I will come to some of the step we have already take to try to address the problem in a moment . it be vital to move quickly to understand exactly what have go wrong , so that we can set out a plan to put thing right . right now , we want to make it as easy as possible for carer to tell we when something have change that could affect their carer ' s allowance . we will continue to look at improve communication , and we be now review the result of a test of text alert to claimant who may be at risk of build up overpayment . in response to the point that the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) make about the need for a review , I assure he that we be not wait for an extensive review in order to act ; we have act already . our pilot involve texte 3 , 500 claimant to alert they when we be tell by HMRC that they have breach the current earning limit . go forward , we want to make the good use of earning datum already hold by HMRC in order to reduce the burden on busy carer , which also respond to the point make early . will the Minister give way ? in a moment . if the result of the pilot be positive , that will be the first step towards address the overpayment problem . I know that we need to do much more , and there be many other issue , but it will be a good start . I be grateful to the Minister for what she have just say , but will she confirm that the remit of the review will go far into the structure of carer ' s allowance ? many of we think that the earning limit be way too low , and the whole cliff - edge structure have to change . can she confirm that the review will look at that ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . I go through the detail of what the review will look at just a moment ago , but there be wide problem with support for carer . the right hon . Member will know that the Department be currently look at a whole host of area , and we need family carer to be much well support , both in work and when they be not work , so we will look at the wide issue . the review be about do that , as I have say , but that do not mean that we be not fully aware of all the issue that carer face . as I be say , address overpayment be only part of the action we need to take to ensure that unpaid carer get the support they need and deserve . will the Minister give way ? I will make a bit of progress . we be look closely at how the benefit system currently work , and it be right that the Government focus on address overpayment of carer ' s allowance . as I be just say , we have set up an independent review , but we have hear the concern about the broad system , include the earning limit and the lack of taper . as member will know , early this year the Work and Pensions Committee , which be then chair by my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham , raise a number of issue with carer ' s allowance — not only overpayment , but the need for modernisation more generally . as the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton will know , we have give the Committee ' s recommendation the detailed consideration that they deserve , and we will respond later in the autumn . order . may I gently say to the Minister that she should look towards the Chair when speak ? I struggle to hear when she be constantly look the other way . we operate in the third person , which be why member should always speak through the Chair . otherwise , I struggle to catch the word . I apologise , Mr Speaker . you would think that after 14 year I would be able to get it right . fourteen year ! yes , 14 year . it just go to show that every day in this House be a school day . thank you , Mr Speaker ; I always welcome your suggestion . I can not pre - empt the Secretary of State ' s decision , but she will shortly start her uprating review of carer ' s allowance , follow the release of yesterday ' s earning datum and today ' s inflation figure , and the outcome of that review will include the new weekly rate of carer ' s allowance from April 2025 . will the Minister give way ? apology , but I feel that I should keep go . Means - test benefit can help where appropriate . universal credit , for example , pay an extra £ 2 , 400 a year to unpaid family carer . I do not underestimate the challenge within the universal credit system , and we want to ensure that carer who need it get that support . as I be say to the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton a moment ago , we be look at different aspect of the system , include by review universal credit to ensure that it do the job we all want it to do . we will set out the detail in due course . pension credit can also be pay to carer at a high rate than what those without care responsibility receive , and over 100 , 000 carer receive an extra amount of pension credit because of their entitlement to carer ' s allowance . however , we think that as many as 760 , 000 pensioner who be eligible for pension credit be not receive it , which be why the Government have already take action to drive up pension credit take - up . last month , we start a national campaign to encourage eligible pensioner to check their eligibility and apply . we be ask local authority to support that and , as the House will know , the Secretary of State and the Deputy Prime Minister write to they in August . follow that , we have see a 152 % increase in application for pension credit since 29 July , with almost 75 , 000 application in just eight week . in November we will write to around 120 , 000 pensioner in receipt of housing benefit who may be eligible but be not currently claim pension credit , and I encourage all family carer to check that they be receive all the support to which they be entitle . the gov . uk website have lot of information on carer ' s allowance , and 90 % of people claim online , although traditional paper form be available for those who want to claim it that way . I know that organisation such as Carers UK and Citizens Advice be also on hand and do a fantastic job of give advice . financial help for carer be really important , but it be only one pillar of a proper support system . all of we need a balance in life , and that be important for carer too . Most carer of working age want to consider work in some form , and not just for financial wellbeing but to enhance their life and the life of the person for whom they care . we want to help family carer combine their caring responsibility with pay work where they can . we will review the implementation of the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 , which give employ carer a right to time off work for the first time , and we will explore the benefit of pay leave while be mindful of the impact of any change on small employer . through the Employment Rights Bill , we will ensure that flexible working , which can play such an important role in help carer to balance their work and caring responsibility , be available to all worker , except where it be genuinely not feasible . the Government will carefully consider the finding of Lord Darzi ' s independent review of the NHS , which be very clear about the need for a fresh approach to support family carer . caring be a demanding role in which no one can function at their good without ever have a break , and the well care fund include money that can be use for unpaid carer support , include short break and respite service for carer . as I mention at the beginning of my contribution , we will ensure that family carer ' voice be hear as we develop plan to create a national care service as part of our reform to adult social care . every day , unpaid family carer step up when love one need their support . without the contribution of family carer , our country would not function . the pressure on social care in this country be already unbearable ; without unpaid family carer , it would become completely untenable . for all the talk of a £ 22 billion black hole , the value that carer give to the economy be £ 162 billion . do the Minister agree that it be an absolute scandal that many carer be struggle financially ? our country be in a very serious financial situation indeed . as I say at the beginning of my speech , anyone who think that the issue of care ought not to be right at the top of the political agenda be labour under a serious misapprehension . this be an important subject , which be why I be proud of the first step that this Government have already take to improve support for carer and to address the overpayment of carer ' s allowance , which have cause so much distress for thousand of people . this show our commitment to recognise and value the vital role that carer play in our community . of course there be much more to do , so it be my hope that , as we deliver the fundamental change that we need , we can work together with carer organisation and with carer themselves with a renew sense of purpose to ensure that carer get all the support they need to carry out the incredible work of care and to live full and fulfil life . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome this debate on this important matter . there be unanimity across the House that carer up and down this country do an extraordinary job , often in very difficult circumstance . we owe they a huge amount , and not only for the compassion and social value that their work bring , but for the financial and fiscal benefit , as Carers UK have identify , because of the cost that the taxpayer be not require to pick up . I recognise the experience that the leader of the Liberal Democrats have in this area , through his campaigning and his personal experience . I think he say that it be good that the Liberal Democrats have bring forward a motion today that be devoid of any politic , but I be not sure that I entirely agree with he . the motion of course contain much that we can all agree on , but the relevant poisonous pill within it will ensure that when we divide later — I confidently predict that the motion will fall — only the Liberal Democrats , and perhaps a few other minority party , will go through the Aye Lobby . they will then be able to crank up the Risographs so that their leaflet can say that only they care about this particular matter . that be far from the truth . my party , the official Opposition , care very deeply . when we be in Government , we bring forward a number of measure to ensure that we support those carer . the level of carer ' s allowance have increase by £ 1 , 500 since 2010 . in 2023 it be my party that bring in the statutory entitlement to one week per year of carer ' s leave . it be only last year that we , through the well care fund , provide £ 327 million to those in desperate need of respite from their caring duty . the care Act of this year increase the right of carer and also the duty place upon local authority . I be also pleased to tell the House that , even more recently , my hon . friend the Member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , the shadow Minister for Women and Equalities , attend an event here host by Carers UK so that we could continue that really important dialogue . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will correct the record , because the unpaid carer ' break be bring in by the private Member ' s Bill of my hon . friend the Member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) . it be not bring in by the Conservative Government . I think the right hon . Gentleman will find that that measure be support by our government — [ Laughter . ] no , no — most private Members ' bill be not support by the Government of the day and therefore make no progress . we be happy , whatever legislative vehicle be available , to ensure that that important measure come into effect on our watch . let I speak for a moment about the complexity of carer ' s allowance , because this be really important . it go to the heart of many of the assertion that have be make in the Chamber today . this be how it work . it be £ 81 . 90 per week . we expect somebody who be in receipt of that benefit to be provide care for 35 hour or more to one or more individual . there be an element of trust in the way the benefit work , because the Department for Work and Pensions can not establish exactly what individual be do up and down the country , and therefore there be an earning limit , which be a proxy for the amount of pay work that somebody be do , rather than the amount of time they be spend look after a love one . that be the purpose of the limit . a complication , which have not yet be raise in this debate , be that someone ' s income have to be adjust in order to determine whether they be above or below that limit . there be adjustment . for example , they can reduce their declare income in this respect by 50 % of any pension contribution they may make . they can adjust the amount of income that they compare to the limit for any equipment that they purchase in respect of their caring obligation . there be also travel cost . if someone be self - employ , various business cost can also see a reduction in the level of income . this lie at the heart of why there be a challenge in notify people of whether they be above or below the earning limit , because it be impossible , at the centre , to determine the answer to that question , for the reason that I have give . the right hon . Gentleman espouse the benefit of cross - party work in an interesting way . whatever adjustment be make to the earning limit , will he join those on the liberal Democrat Benches in ask the Minister to allow a high level of earning ? that be the crucial factor that prevent so many people who badly need carer ' s allowance from get it . the hon . Gentleman make an important point , and of course the motion state that there should be an increase — an unspecified amount , but it be there none the less . I think the answer to his question be that it be a balance , because the high we put up the earning limit and the more generous we be to carer , which of course be something we all want to do , the more people can earn and the long they can work . potentially , therefore , if this be act as a proxy for the amount that people be work , they might not have the real time to spend 35 hour a week care for a love one . so it be inevitably a balance . I certainly accept that this be worth review , and I note that the Minister for Social Security and Disability , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , when he chair the Work and Pensions Committee , call forcefully for a significant increase in the level of carer ' s allowance . the right hon . Gentleman have obviously set out a number of the adjustment that need to be make , but in do so he have outline just how complex the system be and therefore exactly why we have have the scandal in the first instance . do he agree that we should be ask the Minister to ensure that in the carer ' s allowance review we simplify this process ? I can assure he that many unpaid carer be not do 35 hour a week . indeed . what we want , ideally , be a system that be as simple as possible . the motion suggest that we bring in a taper , but that would be a complication of the system . I will come to why there be problem with that . it be easy to suggest these thing , but the detail often make they really quite complicated . the last Government make it clear , when someone apply for this particular benefit , exactly what the arrangement be . when uprating occur every year , we write to everybody to explain the uprating and to inquire as to whether any change in their circumstance or earning might impact their entitlement to benefit . and it be we , not this Government , who in our May update to our fraud plan bring in the pilot for texte to alert those on carer ' s allowance that they may — I say " may " because the Department will not know — be close to exceed the earning limit . I be pleased that the Minister have indicate that the Government will continue with our fine work , but let we be very clear who it be that start those particular measure . on that point , would the right hon . Member therefore accept that the Department for Work and Pensions be in a complete mess and that unpaid carer in our constituency be have to pay the price and bear the brunt of that because the system be clearly not work for they ? no , I would not . I be not rule out the possibility that it may yet become a mess , but certainly on our watch it be never a mess . in fact , it dispense about £ 280 billion - worth of transfer payment both to pensioner and through the benefit system , and by and large it do a remarkable job in do that efficiently . I want to pay tribute to all the official and civil servant that work in that Department . they work incredibly hard and , for the vast majority of their time , produce outstanding result . none the less , of course , we can always point to element of the system where thing break down , and we must always strive to get well . that be why I welcome the Government ' s review . the suggestion that the Government should not seek the repayment of overpayment be absurd . we can not go that far . if someone go over a threshold , we can not say , " do not worry about it . " we might as well not have the threshold in the first place . by all mean , change the threshold — that may be a perfectly legitimate thing to do . otherwise , the threshold should be remove altogether . some member will perfectly legitimately raise failing in the system , but when I be Secretary of State there be example of fraud . for instance , one individual be work 100 hour a week as a taxi driver while apparently still have the time to spend 35 hour a week look after a love one . to my mind , that be clearly fraud , so we can not write off absolutely everything . the Department do the right thing by look at this issue on a case - by - case basis . if a carer receive a bonus from their employer for do a good job and it take they over the threshold , should they lose their carer ' s allowance ? quite possibly not , which be why the Department operate on a case - by - case basis . that be the correct approach , rather than a blanket approach that say it do not matter if someone go over the threshold . as I say , if there be never go to be a requirement for repayment , we might as well not have a threshold at all . in some case , go over the threshold be egregious . the Government know this , and they will have to take it into account . when he be Secretary of State , do the right hon . Gentleman ask what proportion of overpayment be due to egregious fraud and what proportion be due to be a small amount over the earning limit ? it be difficult to give a precise answer ; what do the right hon . Gentleman mean by " a small amount over the earning limit " ? we know that , for the vast majority of the thousand of people in this situation , it will almost certainly be small amount , include some very small amount . none the less , fraud and error be a significant challenge across the benefit system , and need to be address . any responsible Government will take that approach . simply to say , " we have a problem , so we should take off the brake and have no limit . we should let people claim what they like , whatever it might be , even if it be fraud " , as suggest by the leader of the Liberal Democrats , be not viable . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way , but I invite the right hon . gentleman to explain how he would deal with fraud when he be push for none of the overpayment to be return . I make it very clear in my speech that there could be example of fraud , so I ask the right hon . gentleman to check the record . I could not have be clear , and we have talk about this at length in other forum — indeed , we make it clear at the general election . I be afraid that the right hon . Gentleman have show to the House that he fail to get a grip of this issue when he be Secretary of State . he recognise that the vast majority of overpayment be small amount , often because the DWP , in which he be Secretary of State , do not pass on information to HMRC . I be afraid that he be dig a hole for himself . regardless of what the right hon . Gentleman may or may not have say in his opening remark , the text of the motion can not be dispute . on the point of whether anyone should be expect to repay , the motion say that this House " believe that carer should not be force to face the stress , humiliation and fear cause by demand for repayment of Carer ' s Allowance " . to I , that suggest everyone . the motion go on to say that the Government should " write - off exist overpayment immediately " . it be clear and obvious that that would include any fraudulent payment . it may be that the earning limit could be increase , but there would be a fiscal cost . indeed , the liberal Democrat manifesto reform would cost about £ 1 . 5 billion , which be significant . we would have to take account of the balance between be more generous to carer and respect the 35 - hour rule , if that remain . finally , whenever there be a cliff edge , it be suggest that tapering will solve the problem , but that neglect the fact that it introduce complexity , which be the very thing that universal credit , for example , be design to iron out . the system be like spaghetti , and nobody could quite understand how it work . in the tax system , for example , the personal allowance taper away after £ 100 , 000 . many people just stop work far when they reach that level of earning , because it be not worth their while , give the marginal tax rate . there be an interplay between universal credit and carer ' s allowance , because people who earn more will end up have their carer ' s allowance withdraw . there be already a taper within carer ' s allowance to make sure that work pay , so that as people earn more , their benefit be reduce but not sufficiently to make they bad off . under the system advocate by the Liberal Democrats , there will be two taper in two interact benefit , which I do not think would well serve anybody , least of all carer . Madam Deputy Speaker be seek my conclusion . I welcome this motion , and like other party in this House , we stand four - square behind our carer , who do an extraordinary job . I wish the Government well with their review , which we will consider seriously and objectively , as we be all on the side of carer . I stand by our record in office , of which I be proud . I very much welcome the Minister ' s open comment . it be clear that she be fully cognisant of many of the issue that I be about to raise . I also welcome the announcement of the independent Government review of carer ' s allowance overpayment , which I hope will be carry out urgently . I hope it will consider write off substantial overpayment , where it be clear that carer should have be notify soon . on the wide issue face by unpaid carer , I start by read out an email from a constituent : " I care for my mother , who have Alzheimer ' s and vascular dementia plus severe osteoarthritis , for several year . at the time of this , if the person require care be deem capable of perform any self - care task , only part of the Carer ' s Allowance be pay . my mother would , occasionally , wipe a flannel over her face and be therefore deem to be capable of self - care , despite all other evidence . care for someone be not a 9 to 5 job , it be often a 24 hour job , as in my case , with no break for the carer ( as few be ever tell about respite care ) . those who manage employment outside the home be also overburden , as they have no time to decompress from their pay employment before have to spend their time at home care for someone . due to the nature of be a carer , the carer ' s physical and mental health often decline and go untreated as they often have no help with their situation from the Authorities or , should they have they , sibling . that alone can impact the carer ' s own physical and mental health , but carer go unnoticed until there be a crisis . to only receive the paltry current Carer ' s Allowance , which will barely cover utility and Council Tax , ignore food and clothing , be an insult to people who be work far hard than most but remain unseen as it be not deem to be a ' real job ' and be consider ' easy . ' only those who have care for another adult know this be blatantly untrue . " sadly , my constituent ' s feeling be not rare . many people care for their love one out of love and , all too often , it impact on their ability to work , result in many live in poverty . a new report from Carers UK and WPI Economics find that 1 . 2 million unpaid carer be live in poverty , while one in 10 of all carer be in deep poverty . it be not hard to understand why , as carer ' s allowance be the low benefit of its kind — currently , just £ 81 . 90 a week — and it be available only to carer who can prove that they provide more than 35 hour of unpaid care a week . do my hon . friend agree that the evidence show that it be disproportionately woman who be carer , and therefore woman who experience those level of poverty because of the low figure she mention ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment and I agree with they . to solve the crisis , Care UK ' s modelling suggest that an immediate uplift , an increase in the earning limit and an earning taper would lift huge number out of poverty . however , a number of brutal loophole , already highlight by the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , need to be address urgently , include the rule on young carer and student . many people do not know that carer ' s allowance be not pay to those study for more than 21 hour a week . a number of young carer in Salford have tell I that that mean they be often exclude from any support . the pressure on they to study and care for their love one be immense , all while often live in extreme poverty . sadly , many feel they have no option but to leave education age 16 . far , if a carer be look after more than one person for a cumulative amount of 35 hour a week , the carer be not eligible to receive carer ' s allowance . if two people share the care , each provide 35 hour a week , only one person can claim car ' s allowance . I support the sentiment that we need more funding and support for carer — more finance , more money — but the email the hon . Lady read out powerfully show that it be not just money that carer need . they need much broad support to give respite and relief , and to allow they to address their own mental health concern that arise from their job , as well as support to stay in education long , as she mention . although money be important , do she agree that carer need the much wide community support that charity and other local group can give ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . unfortunately , the ability of local authority to reach out to carer who be struggle and directly offer they the respite care they should be entitle to have be hamper , certainly in the past 10 to 14 year . the burden of step in have be leave to many charity . for those who live in an area with a large charitable presence , that be fantastic , but unfortunately not a lot of unpaid carer live in such area . that be an issue that the Government must grapple with . another brutal issue , which be relatively unknown , be that of pension . as far as I be aware , car ' s allowance do not get pay to those in receipt of the state pension , unless the state pension amount be low than the weekly value of carer ' s allowance . as with the pension credit threshold , at the moment a huge number of people be just over the cusp of eligibility ; they live in poverty but can not access the help they need . there be another brutal loophole for pensioner receive care . the Government website currently state : " when you get Carer ' s Allowance , the person you care for will usually stop get : a severe disability premium pay with their benefit " or " an extra amount for severe disability pay with Pension Credit " . that leave one of my constituent , whose daughter provide care but do not live with she , in a situation where she be not entitle to the top - up in pension credit that she should be entitle to , which she need to survive and to deal with her daily living cost as a severely disabled person . I want to highlight those point , but I will bring my comment to a close as many colleague want to speak . I welcome the encourage comment make by my hon . friend on the Government Front Bench . I encourage they to address the loophole that have be mention urgently and , as I be sure they be do already , to encourage action from the Chancellor at the upcoming Budget , so that we can provide the financial and social support our unpaid carer desperately need . rise — order . this be a heavily subscribe debate and I be determined to get everybody in , so this be fair warning . after the next speaker , Back Benchers will be limit to three minute and maiden speech will be limit to five minute . these will be hard limit to ensure everybody get in after our next speaker , Wendy Chamberlain , who have unlimited time . I declare an interest as I be in the process of join the board of Fife Carers in an unpaid capacity ; it be a privilege to join the organisation . I have work with unpaid carer throughout the past few year , as constituency MP for North East Fife and through the passage of my private Member ' s Bill that become the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 . if hon . member want to learn more widely about carer , they may wish to read my Adjournment debate on the subject , which take place in the first few week of this Parliament , where I talk about the need for a strategy on carer to ensure that carer get the cross - cut governmental and departmental support they need . I will not touch on the overpayment scandal specifically , but I welcome the announcement of the review after month of campaigning by my dear friend the Leader of the Liberal Democrat party , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , as well as by the Liberal Democrats , carer charity and journalist . however , I want to raise some point about the carer ' s allowance more generally . I recently ask the Minister responsible for carer ' s allowance , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , a write question about a review of how carer ' s allowance be work . the response say : " this government will keep eligibility criterion and process of Carer ' s Allowance under review , to see if it be meet its objective . " that response pose more question than it provide answer . what be the Government ' s objective for carer ' s allowance ? be they ever review ? how do they know if they be meet they ? what metric be be use ? what would happen if it be find that the objective be not be meet ? I assume that the objective of carer ' s allowance be to keep unpaid carer out of poverty , give the additional barrier they face to work and the additional cost they face through their caring . I also assume that we want to help unpaid carer to stay link to the workplace , if possible , through part - time work or training . on any assessment , carer ' s allowance be fail these objective . it be a failure when a third of household in receipt of carer ' s allowance be class as food insecure , compare with 10 % of household as a whole ; when Carers UK research from 2019 find that 600 people per day who be care be give up work ; and when the rate of poverty among unpaid carer be 50 % high than among non - carer . one immediate remedy that could be consider , as be set out in our motion , be an increase in carer ' s allowance . it may not seem much in the big scheme of thing , but during the pandemic we see the impact of the £ 20 uplift to universal credit , which deliver an immediate and marked fall in food bank use . we must do all we can to support people into work and to stay in work , so that they be not rely on carer ' s allowance to get by . that point refer to the earning allowance , which stop carer from work more than 13 hour a week on the minimum wage before lose carer ' s allowance . as have already be discuss , there be no taper rate , so as soon as carer earn a penny more , the allowance go . bizarrely , yearly increase to the allowance be not peg to change to the national minimum wage . historically , people could work for 16 hour before they lose carer ' s allowance ; some of the scandal we have see could be because people have continue to make those assumption . we need to take the complexity out of the system . it be completely reasonable for people to assume that if they be earn national minimum wage and receive carer ' s allowance in one financial year , they can continue to do so in the follow financial year , as long as they do not increase their hour , but that be not how the system work . the national minimum wage go up by 9 . 8 % this year , but the earning allowance do not go up at all . that sound to I like a system set up to make people fail . should we not be enable people to take on more hour and to progress in their job if they can ? we know that often people — especially those who be below or near the poverty line , as too many unpaid carer be — be scared to risk lose their benefit in case that do not work out . one of the unseen outcome of the scandal be that people be simply not look for work or to get into employment because they be scared about the consequence . many young carer have high level of absence from school and there be barrier to they access education . potentially , if we do not help they to claim carer ' s allowance when they be entitle to do so , they will never go into work and be able to make a contribution . Fife Young Carers , in my constituency , support people up to the age of 25 . we want to encourage young carer to complete their education so they have the good possible option later . to return to my cross - cut strategy , the Department for Work and Pensions may think that it be for the Department for Education to support young people . however , as the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) say , under the under - 21 rule , do a vocational qualification could preclude somebody from receive carer ' s allowance , as T - level be one of the qualification that fall into that trap . she be right that we need to think about how we be potentially inhibit those young people in employment and training from move forward . we need to ensure that we improve young people ' s outcome . the Minister will know that employment among unpaid carer be about more than just benefit . we welcome her reference to the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 in her opening remark and the fact that the Government be look for that leave to be pay , which have long be a party policy of the Liberal Democrats . however , I do have to express my disappointment that there be no sign of pay leave in the Employment Rights Bill , because there be a real opportunity there to move the matter forward . I would appreciate it if , in her closing remark , the Minister provide an update on the likely timescale in relation to the Carer ' s Leave Act . I be concerned that , since the implementation of the Act , we do not actually know what the take - up of carer ' s leave be . I be hear worrying anecdote that , six month after the legislation be fully implement , some company be still not aware of , or properly record , carer ' s leave . part of that be because the communication from the then Government be not good enough . unless somebody be start a small business , or actively look for these detail , they would not find anything on carer ' s leave . I would like to raise one final point with the Minister . again , the hon . member for Salford highlight this . I be often contact by constituent who be upset to find that , have retire , they have lose their carer ' s allowance — or , in Scotland , the carer support payment — because they be claim their state pension . we know that female pensioner be more likely to be in poverty because of the work life that they have have — or not have — as a result of raise their family , and that unpaid carer be more likely to be female and old . I would like the Minister to pick up on that point , because too many pensioner be in poverty this winter as well as carry care responsibility . I call Gill german to make her maiden speech . I be delighted to make my maiden speech in this debate today . Dw I ' n mor falch o fod yn sefyll yma — I be so proud to be stand here . our carer , include our young carer , many of whom I have have the privilege to know as their teacher , be a vital part of our community . it be incumbent on we to represent their voice and right that we take time to do that in this debate . I thank hon . member who have contribute today , and other hon . member who have already make their maiden speech in this House . I hope that I can follow they with aplomb . I wish to start by pay tribute to my predecessor . first , I would like to thank David Jones , the former MP for Clwyd West , for his 19 year of service to Clwyd West and , indeed , to his country as a former Secretary of State for Wales . next , I wish to thank the former MP for the Vale of Clwyd , James Davies , for his service and for his keen eye for an impressive floral display through his work with Britain in Bloom . finally , I pay warm tribute to the previous MP for Vale of Clwyd , Chris Ruane . an early local advocate of break down barrier to opportunity , Chris work hard over many year to bring investment to the area , and never more so than in support of the development of the beautiful Rhyl harbour and the magnificent Pont y Ddraig , or Dragon ' s Bridge . he leave a legacy that I be proud to have the opportunity to build on as MP for Clwyd North . I be also proud to be break new ground . as one of three newly elect Welsh Labour woman mp in north Wales , I join my neighbour , my hon . friend the Members for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) and for Clwyd East ( Becky Gittins ) , to form a formidable force along the coast . Clwyd North boast mile of golden coastline — from Rhyl to Rhos on Sea , take in Kinmel Bay , Towyn , Abergele and Pensarn , Llanddulas and Colwyn Bay . our sandy beach be a huge source of pride . since victorian time , the Clwyd North coast have be a magnet for visitor . generation of family have holiday there from the north - west of England and beyond , with many family make north Wales their home , include my own . as well as the usual seaside fare of ice cream , bucket and spade , and fish and chip , the Clwyd North coast boast a water sport centre , a Michelin - recognise restaurant at Porth Eirias , live music and picture - window dining at the Pavilion theatre , and the fabulous Theatr Colwyn , one of the old work theatre in Wales . move inland in Clwyd North and the wonder continue . from the gothic Marble Church in Bodelwyddan to the magnificent St Asaph Cathedral , impressive architecture and mountain view abound . Clwyd North boast not just one but two medieval castle — in historic Rhuddlan and the market town of Denbigh . of course , area such as ours have challenge too . as a local teacher for over 20 year , I see at first hand the issue deal with by local family , as they struggle to make end meet with rise cost and flatlining wage . I know that I need to step up . I stand for election and become deputy leader of the local council and cabinet member for education , child and family . make no mistake , my route into politic come straight through my classroom . a teacher of the very young , I see child fizz with potential come through my door , only to see that potential dim in later year by struggle and circumstance . I see a lack of economic growth hinder the life of their family . most stark of all , as the year go on , I see the child I have once teach now grow , with child of their own and those same struggle continue . our mission of grow the economy and break down barrier to opportunity be personal to I . I be motivate every day by the vision of every child be able to fulfil their potential . I be motivate by a vision of Clwyd North with a year - round , sustainable economy , play our part in generate green energy , as well as in design , manufacturing and installation — economic growth power by innovation , investment and a wealth of local skill . I have be so lucky to have be surround by the good and most supportive people that anyone could wish for : my hard - work and loyal dad , Graham ; my kind , clever , deeply caring brother , Lee ; my bright and brilliant child , Sam and Josie . then there be my trinity of invincible , inspire woman : my good friend , Kelly ; my much - miss Grandma Celia ; and the linchpin of it all , my amazing mum , Kath . these people and more have make I who I be . live , grow and work in our beautiful part of north Wales have make I who I be . as Member of Parliament for Clwyd North , I will work hard , day in , day out , to make it the very good it can be for our family , for our community , for all of we . colleague have outline the scale of the crisis , so I shall focus on a story of one of my constituent in Carshalton and Wallington . she be tell that she have to repay more than £ 2 , 300 in carer ' s allowance over - payment . this constituent already make huge sacrifice to keep her family afloat , while care for her disabled son . she give up her full - time job to take on caring responsibility and have limit her part - time hour to ensure that she remain qualified for carer ' s allowance . it make I so angry to hear how meticulously she try to manage her pay cheque each month , only to have it throw in her face . she turn down pay rise , turn down overtime and turn down Christmas bonus to ensure that she stay under the limit . her employer agree to keep she on an advance rota to help she plan her earning . despite her diligence , she receive no notice , no warning and no forgiveness when one day the payment stop and the bill come in for over two grand . here be the bit that really get I . the repayment demand that she receive be for the entire entitlement for each occasion when she earn too much . that mean that the small indiscretion come with the heavy of consequence . in one month , it be because she earn £ 28 too much . in another , it be £ 20 . it get bad : one November , she be £ 8 over the limit — not even an hour ' s work in London . finally , and most depressingly , she once dare to earn £ 2 too much . she owe the whole of the allowance back for each of those period , and then a £ 50 fine to boot from the Department for Work and Pensions . this be nothing short of a national scandal , and the DWP should be ashamed of itself . today , the Liberal Democrats be call on the Government to right this wrong , to stop pursue hard - work carer for these innocent overpayment , and then to fix the system that let this scandal emerge in the first place . we need to taper the allowance , raise the earning limit and treat carer with the compassion they deserve . I be conscious of time , so finally , I welcome and be encourage by the Minister ' s comment about the review . however , for it to be successful , carer need to play a big part and have full input . we also need to make sure that carer now in debt distress get some immediate reassurance and support and do not have to wait until the end of the review . I call Dan Aldridge to make his maiden speech . I be honour to make my maiden address during this debate on carer ' s allowance . we all know people who be work tirelessly to care for love one . indeed , make life well for those who sacrifice so much be one of the main reason I make the decision to run for election to this place . in Weston - super - Mare , it have be a privilege to get to know some of our resident who care tirelessly for love one in the most challenging circumstance . I pay tribute to carer in my constituency and specifically to Pat O ' Connell , Jan Quan and everybody at the Parkinson ' s UK Weston - super - mare branch for be so fearless in fighting for appropriate care service for their love one . I be in awe of their love , compassion and conviction to secure well care and respite service not just for themselves , but for everyone . it be a real tragedy that the care system be not able to provide they with suitable respite from the 24 / 7 care they provide . I continue to fight their corner and that of all carer across the constituency . Weston - super - Mare be an extraordinary place , full of a vibrant mix of people . since my family move to the village of Kewstoke in 2001 , Weston and the surround area have become deeply intertwine with our life . I may still have my Stokie accent and a love of pottery and staffordshire oatcake , but Weston be now where my heart be . it be a town where we find people with root from across our nation and from across the world . my young sister Emily and Lauren have become expert code - switcher between Stokie and west country base on the situation , but my young brother Scott have embrace the local lingo and I can almost hear he now say , " alright , my lover ? " Weston have provide we all with a friendly community , a beautiful coastline and the good british seaside experience in the country — that be a fact . it be hard not to feel immense pride be there , and even though I will not play favourite with our local chip shop and ice cream shop , I can assure hon . member that there be many excellent choice in the town . this year we celebrate the 160th birthday of Birnbeck pier — Weston ' s old — which have be close for nearly 30 year . its restoration have be a labour of love for so many people who have work tirelessly to preserve this piece of our history , and I be overjoyed to be the MP who will hopefully see it bring back to life for our community and for commercial use . Weston be make up of diverse community , from the town itself , which host its first mela this summer to celebrate our diversity , to area such as Worle and village such as Bleadon , Uphill and Hutton . those neighbourhood have grow significantly over the year , with post - war estate such as Bournville , Coronation , Potteries and Oldmixon foster some of the most creative , friendly and resilient people and host event from community Pride to some of the most fantastic creative art event I have ever attend . I come from a community just like those . under the last Labour Government , I be the first in my family to pursue a - level and go to university . it be because of those life - change opportunity that I be here today . a constituent say to I recently , " politic doesn ' t make any difference , " but I could not disagree more . yes , we have see challenge , but for many of we , especially in my generation , the decision of a Labour Government give we the chance to succeed in way we never think possible . I be determined to build on that legacy and ensure we continue to empower future generation . recently , Weston have evolve into a haven for food and beverage enterprise , offer everything from traditional british seaside fare to incredible vegan option thank to local champion such as Anna Southwell , who have transform perception of vegan cuisine — include my own — and show how to build and sustain inclusive community through food , drink and entertainment . business such as Kinda Co . , know for its dairy - free cheese , have choose Weston as their home , thrive there because of the opportunity we create for growth and sustainability , and while it be now just outside my constituency , the iconic Thatchers Cider will always be associate with our town . even though our high street , like many across the country , have struggle over the year , traditional store such as the phenomenal family - run Walker and Ling , open in 1904 and trade in the same place since , have keep the faith and be part of the fabric of this great town . I sincerely hope they will be there for many more year to come as we work together to revitalise the high street . Weston be also home to some amazing tech start - up , and as the world become more interconnected , with high - skill , high - wage job tie less to city , place such as Weston be start to see investment . More people have cotton on to what a great place it be , and I can totally understand why . I thank my predecessor John Penrose for his service in this place over 19 year . I particularly pay tribute to he for his work on the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 and as the anti - corruption champion in the May and Johnson Ministries . before he come the late Lord Cotter , who be a visionary for our town , advocate for digital transformation and regional economic development . he be also a patron of a homeless and rough sleeping charity in Weston , somewhere to go , which he care for deeply . I be honour to continue in his footstep as a trustee . I look forward to play an active role in the Government ' s ambitious plan to end homelessness , and to ensure that technology be a force for good and that digital inclusion become a reality for all . our youth and , indeed , all those seek to learn and develop deserve the good opportunity . I be inspire constantly by the hope , resilience and community spirit of the child and young people I be fortunate enough to be surround by in Weston . I be committed to ensure that Weston continue to be a place where everyone can thrive , and where community and innovation come together to build a bright future for all . if the child and young people I see in my constituency week in , week out be anything to judge our future by , we be in excellent hand . thank you , Weston - super - Mare , for be my home and for give I the opportunity to serve you . I congratulate the hon . member for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) and for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) on their maiden speech . early this year I speak to a family member whose mother be suffer with severe depression . her mental health have start to plummet once she become a carer for her husband . he have fall and be rush to hospital , but he could not leave without a full - time carer in place . the only option for the family be to have his wife give up work and be there when he come home . the toll of that care as she become old and have to give up her job grow heavy . I hear such heartbreaking story of family care for their love one again and again across Harpenden , berkhamste and Tring . recent census have show that there be thousand of unpaid carer , or family carer , across the constituency — and as have be mention today , those be the one who have realise they be indeed carer . there be 311 , 000 unpaid carer in Wales , many in my constituency of Monmouthshire . Carers Wales estimate they provide free care worth £ 10 . 6 billion to the Welsh economy each year . will the hon . Lady join I in condemn the previous Government for not deal with the issue of overpayment ? absolutely ; it be a real travesty . it have come up again and again in the House that we be let down the people who be care for our community and the family in they , or indeed our own family . face the cost and complication of get the support they need be often leave to the family and unpaid carer who lovingly pick up the piece . on the hon . Lady ' s point , our carer be the equivalent of a second nhs . not only be they support their love one , but they be prop up our healthcare service . it be estimate they contribute a staggering £ 162 billion a year , compare with an estimate £ 164 billion in funding for the NHS . that be a shocking £ 445 million per day , in comparison with the previously mention £ 81 . 90 per week of carer ' s allowance . I have mention this before in the House , but I will mention it again . in the West Hertfordshire teaching hospital NHS trust , in one month alone , we lose 843 bed day because of a backlog in social care . that have an impact on A & E waiting time , ambulance waiting time , waiting list and , crucially , the people wait in hospital and their family . People want to be back home . they do not want to be stick in hospital because of a fail system , so take care of care and our carer be not only the right thing to do , but it help we all . I support the motion , which call for overpayment to be write off , for the carer ' s allowance earning limit to be raise , and for the introduction of a taper to end the unfair cliff edge . I welcome the review , and call on the Government to support carer to juggle work and care , and as my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) highlight , to bring carer into the review . we must ensure that all carer , of all age , be give the care that they need . we must support those who support our love one , and who be support our NHS and every one of we in way that we may never know . I thank hon . member for their constructive contribution to this debate , on a topic that I know be important to all our constituent . the enormous contribution make to our community by unpaid or family carer have rightly be recognise across the House . we know that our country would grind to a halt without they , but many today be push to breaking point care for those they love , and that can not be right . the treatment of unpaid carer , unknowingly overpay their carer ' s allowance under the previous Administration , be unacceptable . have speak to unpaid carer in Hertford and Stortford , I know that those failure have cause many of they stress , and shockingly even leave some in fear of claim the carer ' s allowance to which they be rightly entitle . I know that local benefit advice have be invaluable to those resident , and I pay tribute to the work of Citizens Advice East Herts and other group that offer a lifeline to those in need of support . I welcome today ' s announcement from the Minister that the Government will launch a review into carer ' s allowance overpayment . I be pleased that the review will look at not only what go wrong previously but , importantly , how we can prevent such problem in the future . I know that it will be welcome by carer and unpaid family carer in my community . I be proud that the Government recognise the challenge face by unpaid carer , and it be essential that we consider how we can provide they with the support that they deserve . I be hearten by our commitment to introduce flexible working as a right , to provide time away from work for care responsibility , and to join up service so that my constituent do not have to battle to get the care for their love one that they need . it be also important that we turn to the task of deliver much - need reform in adult social care . the Government ' s commitment to reform of the sector , with an ambition to build a world - class national care service , be something that I be sure we all support . it be right that the project will be undertake in collaboration with care user and their family , sector partner and care organisation , to ensure that their live experience be at the heart of the social care system that we build . I look forward to work with those group in my constituency to ensure that their voice be hear . we will all have receive correspondence from constituent share their personal experience of the social care system . many of we will have relative or friend who have struggle to access care themselves , and other will have caring responsibility too . now be our opportunity to fix unpaid care , and the social care system more widely , and deliver last change for the future . I warmly welcome today ' s announcement and the Government ' s programme for reform . I rise to speak as someone with direct personal experience of battle the care system . since I become the MP for Eastleigh , I have be contact by numerous constituent who have be ask to pay back thousand in overpayment by the DWP . one be a single parent of a child with special educational need , who work narrowly over the threshold and have have her allowance cut completely . she have be leave without her allowance and be now repay the overpayment , struggle on a limited income while care for her son . the carer ' s allowance overpayment scandal highlight deep flaw in our social security system . unpaid carer — those dedicate their life to care for love one — be be unfairly penalise . many of the debt could have be avoid have the previous Government fix system failure and respond to warning . the system need urgent reform . the Government must take responsibility and compensate carer for overpayment that could have be prevent . I welcome the news that the Government will review overpayment in the carer ' s allowance scandal , but for the sake of all vulnerable carer face penalty I hope that we see urgent action to rectify the situation too . the financial reality for carer in Eastleigh be incredibly challenging ; 29 % of unpaid carer in the UK live in poverty , and many be force to leave work because of their caring responsibility . one million carer across the country be rely on a carer ' s allowance of just £ 81 . 90 a week . we must raise the earning cap , allow carer to continue work without fear of financial penalty , but financial instability be just one aspect of the difficulty that carer be face as we head into winter . change to the winter fuel payment will impact the 1 . 2 million unpaid carer over 65 . estimate show that 1 . 2 million carer be already in fuel poverty , with 42 % of caring household struggle to heat their home . that highlight the urgent need for more target support to ensure that carer be not force to choose between caring and basic necessity . we need urgent reform of carer ' s allowance , well pay for care worker and more support for unpaid carer . the social care crisis be leave too many in Eastleigh strand in hospital bed because there be not enough care worker to support they at home . we must address these issue , with a high carer ' s minimum wage , pay carer ' s leave and guarantee respite break . we must ensure that carer in Eastleigh and across the UK have enough to live on , and be give the respect and support that they deserve . I welcome the debate , bring by the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , and pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) and for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) on their maiden speech . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement of the independent review into how overpayment of carer ' s allowance have occur , what can be do to support those who have accrue they , and how to reduce the risk of overpayment occur in the future . around 175 , 000 carer in receipt of carer ' s allowance be combine pay work with care , and in 2023 - 24 , there be 34 , 500 overpayment as a result of earning and carer ' s allowance . that mean that around one in five carer who be do pay work and claim carer ' s allowance have have an overpayment in the last year . that the previous Government allow this situation to occur be , frankly , utterly shameful . it have push many unpaid carer , include many in my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire South , to breaking point for the sole crime of care for somebody they love and save the taxpayer thousand of pound in do so . without their contribution , our country would grind to a halt . that this have happen to they through no fault of their own be not okay . we must provide carer with the support that they need , at the time they need it . the Carers UK " State of Caring " report estimate that 1 . 2 million unpaid carer be live in poverty , and 400 , 000 be live in deep poverty . it also find that 75 % of unpaid carer receive carer ' s allowance be struggle with cost of living pressure , while almost half be cut back on essential that they need to survive . that be the legacy of 14 year of Tory Government . while it be right that the review will look at get a grip of the carer ' s allowance overpayment issue , there be an urgent need for the Government to consider the broad question of how to provide wide support for unpaid or family carer . that include support for carer on low income through universal credit , and through carer ' s allowance . while carer ' s allowance be a devolved matter in Scotland , I urge the Government to discuss with the Scottish Government the position with respect to people in Scotland who be , or have be , receive carer support payment while the DWP have be deliver it there on behalf of Scottish Ministers . we need a long - term vision for social care that consider how we well support unpaid carer . I know that our Government be commit to build consensus for the long - term reform need to create a sustainable care service . order . just to finish — no , I be stand now . thank you . I call Steve Darling to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a great honour to stand here as the MP for Torbay . it be right and proper that I acknowledge the hard work of my predecessor , Kevin Foster . I also reflect on his predecessor , Adrian Sanders , with whom I work for 18 year to support constituent in Torbay . I learn from Adrian how to put the community at the heart of all one do as a constituency MP . I look forward to build on that over this parliamentary term . I want to thank Pam Bagnall , Hans Windheuser and Frankie Ranwell - Jones for their support at the general election . I also acknowledge the support of family member throughout my 30 year as a councillor . my mother Penny , who be here , my wife Mandy and my two son George and William have be very , very supportive . other people who have be extremely supportive be the staff at Westminster , who have be an absolute delight to I and Jennie , who be plan to become the " leader of the o - paw - sition " . she be do very well and live the true life of a parliamentarian : turn up in the Chamber and have a good sleep . she be also be a parliamentarian by make sure that she receive lot of love from wherever she can get it throughout the estate . the customer service that we have receive stand in stark contrast to that in " Fawlty Towers " , for which torquay be famous , but member can rest assure that if they do choose to visit the english riviera , the service they receive will be of high quality . what make Torbay special ? we have six blue flag beach . we be somewhat challenge by the sewage in our sea , and I look forward to challenge and hold the Government to account on that particular issue . we be also a UNESCO - register geopark , with Kents cavern at its heart . that be perhaps the old dwelling along the south coast of England , yet we have a wicked housing crisis in Torbay , which be , again , something that I look forward to challenge over this parliamentary term . Torbay have be one of the wealthy place over 100 year or so , but now we be somewhat more challenge . Oldway mansion be perhaps a prime example . it be model on Versailles and use as a hospital during the first world war , but it have see well day , as have our hospital in Torquay , only 6 % of which be consider standard A . we have have almost 700 sewage leak in our hospital , affect clinical service at time . I be shock and horrify that the previous Government allow our hospital to get into that state , and I can not believe that the new Health Secretary will allow such a hospital to remain on the Government ' s book unsorted . the manage director of the steam railway in Paignton , John Jones , do something amazing every year for carer . our " train of Lights " service start up in late November , and the first night be free for almost 2 , 000 carer . family with disabled youngster , foster family and those with care experience be all welcome . I thank John for do that . that reflect what we be discuss today . I hope the Government will forgive the liability that some carer have . we need to enhance the payment and ensure that there be a guarantee of respite care . I conclude by say to the people of Torbay that this be the honour of my life , and I look forward to champion Torbay throughout the Parliament ahead of we . Superb timekeepe . I thank the Liberal Democrats for choose this important issue for debate . I congratulate several member on their maiden speech , particularly the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) . it be wonderful to hear from he , and I be sure that his family be incredibly proud . I also welcome the House ' s honorary canine Member , Jennie . in my maiden speech , I say that carer would be the group of people for whom I would speak up in this place . for I , it be personal : my mother spend much of her life care for my grandmother . I hope that , in time , I will be able to take up the fantastic work of the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on carer . I serve as a chair on the Archbishops ' commission on reimagine care . during that commission on the future of social care in England , we listen to unpaid family carer , who tell we that they be stretch to breaking point . they give selflessly but at a huge cost to their own wellbeing , and , as we have hear in the debate , they make financial sacrifice , as caring can affect their ability to work . they must fight every day to get care and support for their love one . they do so with support from fantastic organisation , such as Carers ' Resource in my constituency . in the " Care and Support Reimagined " report , we propose a new deal for carer to ensure that they be value and can give out of love and not necessity . however , as we have hear , they be be punish for try to juggle care and work . some 2 . 8 million carer be try to do that but find that they be inadvertently breach the earning threshold , with the result that they face the issue of overpayment . as I have write to the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , it a scandal that the last Government know about that — there be NAO and Select Committee report on their desk — but do nothing , so I welcome this Government ' s have seize the issue and set up the independent review , and I look forward to see its recommendation . I be glad that that be part of a wide review of support for carer . it be clearly a huge building block for a national care service . as we have hear , we can not deliver a national care service without value the vital role that carer play in give love to disabled adult and old family member . I be glad that we be right that wrong . I will be brief . I support the motion and everything that have be say today , and I look forward to the Government ' s response . as many people know — include perhaps you , Madam Deputy Speaker — I be an unpaid carer for my wife Flora . with the salary that I receive as an MP , I can afford to do that . I care for my wife because I love she . she have be disable for 25 year . I will talk about one aspect of the support that we get . when I be here in Westminster , a wonderful team of professional carer go and see my wife every morning , look after she and see what need to be do . they be fantastic people , and I owe they such a big debt . this be where I might try the patience of the House slightly , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I want to mention an aspect that be not help those carer : the remuneration that they receive for mileage . in Scotland , carer get 61p per mile for the first 3 , 500 mile , and after 3 , 500 mile , they get 25p per mile . that be not good news give the vastness of my constituency — half the size of Wales , they tell I — and the mileage that carer have to cover . a lot of those wonderful people be say , " enough be enough , " pack up and call it a day . in north - west Sutherland and Wester Ross in particular , we have an age population that desperately need that kind of support , but carer be just give up and go . it be not because they do not care for the people they be help , but because they simply can not afford it . the cost of run their car be far great than what they receive for the vast mileage involve . my husband be a full - time carer for his mother , who have have three stroke . by look after people in their home and save life long term , carer make very large saving for the NHS . give how much carer save the NHS in long - term out - of - hospital care provision , we should , as a cross - party endeavour , reconsider the compensation for mileage . the hon . Lady make a very wise point that demonstrate the interconnected nature of unpaid carer and professional carer , because the good solution come when they work together . I will conclude with this : we have a problem . it be perhaps not pertinent to the Minister who be before we today , but I hope that the Treasury will consider the issue of remuneration rate for mileage , perhaps with the Scottish Government . those rate have not be revisit since 2011 , and since then , we have have about 40 % inflation . we can see what be wrong ; let we sort the problem . I thank the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) for bring this debate today . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) and for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) and to the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) for their maiden speech . first , I put on record my thank to carer across Bexleyheath and Crayford and to fantastic local charity include Bexley SNAP , Bexley Voice , Bexley Mencap , Carers ' Support Bexley , Crossroads Care , Evergreen Care , Mind in Bexley , and Irish Community Services for all they do to support community in my patch . be a carer be often unexpected : we all see people who come to we when a love one be diagnose . as I refer to in my maiden speech , my wife and I know at 12 day , when one of our child be diagnose with cerebral palsy . day to day , we see what it mean to be a carer in the support we have to give she . I have think today about the pressure that exist : not just the mental health and caring pressure , but the pressure of manage the bureaucracy , such as apply for and renew your freedom pass and blue badge ; deal with the administration of appointment at four different hospital , in our daughter ' s case ; the constant appointment and call to ensure your child ' s wheelchair be work to support they ; organise and constantly chase for the correct equipment at home ; reapplye for disability living allowance every three year ; try to find the respite to allow you a break and the ability to work ; and explore the minefield that come with apply for a disabled facility grant . there be also the complexity of be an employer under the direct payment system : arrange shift , issue contract , run payroll every month , pay insurance , calculate your staff ' s holiday and ensure the support be there , just to get — in our case — eight hour ' care per week . I have twice exhaust the complaint process with our conservative local authority through stage 1 and stage 2 complaint . on one occasion , they do not pay our carer for six week ; on another occasion , they do not make those payment at the national minimum wage . that all add to the burden and pressure on carer . in our case , we do not claim car ' s allowance , but I know at first hand the pressure of have to battle the system when it be not work for you . I hope that the review set up today will look at the issue of overpayment and at other issue that really need to be resolve for those on the frontline . as I have say previously , I will carry on press the Government to create a sustainable national care service that work for unpaid carer , sector partner and carer organisation . as part of that process , I will be support the Government ' s amendment today as the first step to make thing easy for carer in the year ahead . I praise hon . member for their excellent contribution and maiden speech . Unpaid carer be the hidden backbone of our social care system . whether they be parent or grandparent care for child with special educational need or disability , individual support a spouse or sibling , or those step in to care for a relative in need , those carer provide tireless support with little recognition or help . we have already hear from my hon . friend and from member across the House about the scandal of the carer ' s allowance overpayment and their devastating impact on family up and down the country . in my constituency , countless carer be do extraordinary work , often at great personal cost . many be struggle to balance their caring responsibility with their own health , their financial stability and — for some — even their job . the weight of those responsibility can be overwhelming , especially without access to proper support service such as respite care . we need a statutory guarantee of respite break for carer , because those break be essential for give carer the time to rest and recharge so that they can continue provide vital care . at the same time , we can not ignore the financial pressure that carer face . carer ' s allowance be simply not enough to live on : it be the low benefit of its kind , and it be unacceptable that carer — many of whom be unable to work due to their caring duty — be leave struggle to make end meet . we need to see a fair increase in carer ' s allowance and an uplift of the threshold , which would make a real difference for family in my constituency , ensure that carer be not force into poverty while look after their love one . if you will allow I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I also want to raise the issue of care provide by young people . in Stratford - on - Avon , many young people in full - time education be balance schoolwork and study with care for a parent or sibling , often without the support they need to succeed in both role . I would like young carer ' voice to be hear in the Government ' s review of carer ' s allowance : no young carer should be leave behind simply because they have take on the responsibility of care for their love one . the Government must set an urgent timetable for review carer ' s allowance and simplify the system to show carer that they be value for the essential work they do in today ' s Britain . for million of unpaid carer in West Brom and around the UK , life be hard enough . they be the backbone of our care system , yet they be woefully under - support and under - recognised . take care of someone be the most generous act of human kindness , but the former Government repay those act of service with hostile interview and demand for repayment and by fight carer in the court . I welcome this new Government ' s independent review , which recognise the invaluable contribution that carer make . the review will investigate the over - payment of carer ' s allowance : how it be allow to happen in the first place and , more importantly , how we can make sure it never happen again . I know what it be like to witness the care that one person can show to another , whether that care be pay or unpaid . my grandmother — my nanny , as we call she — be look after in the final year of her life in a care home . the team there provide tender care 24 hour a day , and they make life fun . my nanny be irish , and even into her 90 , she be very partial to half a pint of Guinness , which the care home always provide . they always make St Patrick ' s day good fun . that care do not stop when she finally pass away : when the car go past the care home on the day of her funeral , all the staff be line up with irish flag to wave her goodbye . this Labour Government be go to give pay and unpaid carer the recognition , right and pay that they deserve and create a sustainable national care service , and I be very proud to be part of that . in my borough of Sandwell as a whole , the percentage of people provide over 20 hour of unpaid care a week be well above the national average , and for many people in my constituency , care for their love one be more than a full - time job . those who be able to go to work find themselves have to restrict their hour for fear that they will inadvertently overstep the earning limit . during the election , I meet a woman in West Bromwich who be in exactly that situation : she work as a clean in addition to care for a family member . she be really struggle to make end meet , but feel trap , for fear of the penalty she would incur if she go even a few penny over the earning limit . the motion table by the Liberal Democrats be right to condemn the previous Government for fail to address the scandal of repayment . lot of carer be not even notify that they have exceed the earning threshold . for some , their allowance be stop without warn , cause severe financial difficulty ; other will spend year repay , with the anxiety and stress that that bring . on top of all the other responsibility that unpaid carer take on for their love one , they have be make to feel like criminal — can you imagine ? as such , I support the Government ' s intention to quickly get to the bottom of carer ' s allowance overpayment and consider how we provide support for unpaid carer , many of whom have be push to breaking point just for look after the people they love . Sophie , Clare , Oliver and Wendy be some of the most resilient people I know . they be all Eastbournians , they would all do anything for their family , and they be all carer . they be among the 9 , 415 carer in Eastbourne , and I promise they that I would use opportunity such as this debate to recognise their resilience and give they and their family a voice . today , I strive to do exactly that . I strive to do it particularly with respect to the need for wide support to carer , which the motion mention . Sophie Ticehurst and her family care for Sophie ' s 24 - year - old brother Jack , who have autism and be non - verbal . they rely on the Linden Court day centre — which support people with learn disability — for Jack ' s care , but also for their respite ; but the centre face closure after year of conservative underfunding , and it would be devastating for they if that go ahead . as would the propose closure of Milton Grange day centre , particularly for people with dementia — again , down to the Conservative county council . that place serve as essential respite to Clare , whose 82 - year - old mum benefit from its amazing care . where be the care for the carer ? we urgently need the Government to intervene to properly fund our local authority , so that these essential care resource can be protect . I also pay tribute to Oliver Davis , a young carer in my constituency . he be a 14 - year - old Eastbournian , and since the age of eight have care for his mum , who live with significant cardiac issue and the long - term effect of a stroke . his mum say that " he never complain about be a young carer . " Oliver do we all proud . in fact , he also win a BBC make a difference award for be a young carer across Surrey and Sussex , and he also do the local charity Care for the Carers proud , which he work with to advocate for young carer like he . lastly , I want to mention Wendy Turner , a different type of family carer — a kinship carer , whom you know , Madam Deputy Speaker . she step up to take she two grandchild into her care when she be 53 , but she be short - change by our system , which unjustly offer she a low kinship care allowance than the local foster allowance . that need to change . where be the care for the carer ? our carer do so much to lift people up , but time after time , our system wear they down . enough be enough , so I say to the Government : dignify their experience with action ; honour their story with reform ; and never take our carer for grant . I do not want to be see be too kind to a fellow Sussex MP , but kinship carer be indeed visit here today . I wish to mention an interest : my husband work for an organisation that allocate funding to Carers UK . it really be a privilege to follow such thoughtful contribution , particularly those of member who have share such powerful personal testimony — my hon . friend the Members for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) and for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) . I warmly welcome the fact that the Liberal Democrats choose to provide this opportunity for we to discuss this important issue . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) for share his personal experience as a carer and rightly move this issue up the political agenda . I pay tribute to the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , whose previous work chair the Work and Pensions Committee do so much to highlight the injustice of the overpayment scandal . I be pleased to see he in his Government role , able to put into action all that work . for the past 14 year , carer have be woefully let down by the Conservatives , and they have be let down today by their completely inadequate defence of the overpayment scandal . after decade of cut , too many be on the waiting list for local authority care , and local authority service have be call upon time and again to do more with less . carer like Shirley Islam , one of the 500 register unpaid care in the City of London , who meet I to highlight her experience as a carer , have bear the brunt of that failure ; as have carer from Westminster Rethink Mental Illness , who I also speak with recently . I look forward to work with local resident on this issue . nowhere be the previous Government ' s failure to administer basic service more evident than when it come to carer . under the previous Government , the Department for Work and Pensions saddle thousand of carer with unnecessary financial burden at a time when they have more than enough on their plate , include the 34 , 000 carer who receive fine of up to £ 20 , 000 . so today they need to hear these word : " we be sorry for the injustice and indignity you have suffer under the previous Government . we will do everything that we can to put they right . thank you for your work and service . " at the election , the Prime Minister promise a politic that tread more lightly on people ' s life , so I be glad that in today ' s announcement the Department have scrap the plan replacement of cash payment to carer with voucher . we should not be tell carer how to spend their own money . I eagerly await the announcement of a national care service , as promise in our general election manifesto , and I know that my constituent do too . I look forward to the publication of the Government ' s review and the delivery of much - need and long - await justice . I commend my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) for introduce this debate . I echo his call for an end to unfair overpayment claim as a result of the earning limit , and for a comprehensive review of support for carer . I will now share some story about carer who I have meet over the year , or who be in my constituency . as a volunteer for the Motor Neurone Disease Association , I have see the toll that that terrible disease take on family and their carer . many of the people who get MND be elderly and they see their life change from a relax retirement with their partner after many year of work to one person have MND and their spouse become a carer . that be very challenging for people who have lead self - sufficient life and lose their mobility and independence . it be also important , as my hon . friend the Member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) say , that we consider the experience of the next generation of carer . sometimes motor neurone disease can affect much young people . one person I support be a single parent with a four - year - old child . I see the impact that care responsibility can have on child and young carer ; even where really good care arrangement be in place , there be still the physical and emotional toll of be an unpaid carer . in Oxfordshire we have 12 , 000 young carer ; the be free Young Carers charity support around 650 of they . it have be estimate that family that have a young carer earn £ 5 , 000 more than those who do not have a young carer , but while contribute huge economic benefit , young carer be one and a half time more likely to have a long - term illness or special educational need . a child I be call Katie register with be free Young Carers in March 2023 . she care for her twin sister , who have autism . in April 2023 , Katie attend a one - to - one session that enable she to open up about how she be feel and the support she need to continue her schoolwork . later that year , Katie ' s dad be diagnose with MS , which add further pressure and lead Katie ' s sister to try to take her own life . after such a series of event many child would have struggle , but Katie have cope and be do well . she have attend 13 respite trip over the past two year , include the young carer ' festival , and have a lovely group of friend . she be also a member of the charity ' s youth panel . she have speak about the be free Young Carers charity on local television news . it be vital that we support all carer , include young carer such as Katie . I commend the motion to the House . as I have already mention a few time in this place , carer play a significant role in my journey to this Chamber . I work at first hand with young carer for two and a half year until I be elect . I really welcome the use of the term " family carer " in this debate , because the charity I work for be call Action for Family Carers . I always welcome an opportunity to speak on this issue . I recognise that young carer be not eligible for the allowance that we be talk about , but I beg this Chamber ' s permission to mention the subject in this debate and at every opportunity . in my job support specifically young carer , I see every day the toll that care take in day - to - day life . I recognise that all carer have be give a raw deal , push to their limit — their breaking point — in look after people they care about and love . since I be elect to this place , I have hear from carer who have suffer a massive amount of anxiety due to the pressure put on they because of the overpayment scandal — people whose life have change , who have give up career to become carer for their love one , and of course young people who do not even consider go on to high education because of the anxiety leave their cared one behind would cause . this can not go on . the situation be not only untenable but unworkable , and above all it be damaging to those who we rely on in our most vulnerable moment . that be why I welcome wholeheartedly the Government ' s announcement today that they will launch an independent review of the carer ' s allowance overpayment , lead by an expert in the matter . this review will cut through the mistake make under the last government , lie bare what we can learn and help we to avoid these mistake in the future . there be no simple solution to improve the situation for unpaid carer , but this announcement show a clear commitment to find the good way to improve it for as many as possible for as long as possible . I will say it again : carer be unsung hero , and we owe it to these unsung hero , whose contribution be often understate and unappreciated , to do this . carer be the backbone of our society , and this review be an important step in repay our debt to they . carer in my constituency have tell I how they feel undervalued and invisible . they provide essential care to their love one , yet their contribution be rarely recognise . there be carer such as Harry — a resident in my constituency who provide care for his son — who feel that the work he do be take for grant . Harry care for his son because he want to be there when his son need he , but he be not give the recognition he deserve . he receive £ 81 . 90 a week in carer ' s allowance , but when Harry ' s hour be extend at work by just 30 minute a week to allow one of his colleague to get to work on time after they have finish the school run — something that Harry be of course happy to agree to — he have no idea that , despite inform the DWP and be tell that it be all okay , he would be accidentally overpay carer ' s allowance . then the threat of fine and prosecution come from the DWP . to say that it add unnecessary stress to Harry ' s life and his son ' s life be a really large understatement . the health and wellbeing of carer be a critical issue for we , and many carer experience physical and mental health issue due to the demand of their caring responsibility . there be carer such as Margret in my constituency , who care for her 25 - year - old son with learn disability . with her caring responsibility , she be no long able to work . she find the balance between her pay job and her unpaid job too much to handle . Margret tell I how she rarely get out of the House without her son . she have lose her network of friend and now feel isolate . carer such as Margret struggle to access the respite care they need due to high cost and the lack of availability . the Liberal Democrats believe that every carer should have access to regular and high - quality respite care , and we want to introduce a statutory guarantee of regular respite break for unpaid carer , because carer be the backbone of our society . they provide essential support to their love one , often at great personal cost , and the Liberal Democrats want to ensure that they receive the support they need when they need it . I thank the Liberal Democrats for use this Opposition day for this important issue . I also thank Durham County Carers Support for the work it do across the county . this topic be very personal to I , because I be a parent carer for my daughter Maria for 27 year — the whole of her life , in fact . Maria live with severe cerebral palsy and need round - the - clock care . I also have two young child , so I totally understand the issue of exhaustion , stress and fear , as well as the tremendous joy of look after a love one . the north - east be a region of unpaid care , with 10 . 1 % of the adult population in the 2021 census provide unpaid care for more than 50 hour a week . as we have hear , it be woman who be do the hard graft . the " Women of the North " report , which I encourage the Minister to read if she have not already do so , state that many woman who support family or friend do not even identify as carer . they just get on with it , regardless of the effect it have on their health and wellbeing . woman in their 50 be provide more unpaid care than the national average . in fact , they be contribute £ 10 billion - worth of unpaid care to the british economy each year . again , this be high than the national average , make the carer ' s allowance scandal all the more infuriating . reflect on my own experience , when Maria be 10 and her sibling be eight and nine , we decide that I would go to university . I must have be mad , I know . that be for my own personal development , and in the hope that I would get a decent job in the future . unfortunately , that mean I be not get car ' s allowance any more . the course be class as full - time , but there be actually only nine hour of contact time , so I have plenty of time to look after Maria as well . not only be I not earn , but I lose that tiny allowance . I be try to better myself for the future , and it be a struggle . we go into debt , it be something we really could have do without . I therefore welcome the comment by the Minister , and I welcome the fact that the Government will work collaboratively with those on the frontline , because that would have mean an awful lot to I . I have one final comment : I want the Government to crack on with this policy as soon as possible , because unpaid carer can not wait a minute long , especially those in the north . may I begin by express my appreciation of the family carer in the Bishop Auckland constituency ? accord to helpful researcher in the Commons Library , one in seven of my constituent provide at least an hour of unpaid care each week , and over half of they be eligible for carer ' s allowance . nationwide , as we have hear , our army of family carer be the equivalent of a second NHS . I agree with the criticism make by the shadow Secretary of State that we must not risk open the door to fraud , and it be precisely because I believe in the welfare state that I think it must always be watertight and widely perceive as fair . however , I be concerned that in a huge number of case — I be inclined to believe that it be the majority of case — overpay carer ' s allowance be the result of inadvertent error . as other have say , this be a complicated benefit and when so many stressed family carer find themselves have to pay back large sum of money , there must be some onus on the Government to take responsibility . this issue be so widespread that I think every MP in this place will have be contact by constituent face hardship . these be decent , honest people who work hard , who serve their family and community and who ask for little , and they feel as though they be be treat like criminal while the Government have become the nation ' s big debt collector . if I may , I will briefly raise a specific issue that two of my constituent have raise with I . they be be require to pay back thousand of pound because of inadvertently earn just above the earning threshold . however , as they have point out to I , carer ' s allowance be count as income in universal credit claim , so have they not claim it , they would have receive more in universal credit . I gently urge the Minister to consider this point as part of the review , as people be not only be push into hardship due to be make to pay back overpayment , but may actually be bad off on aggregate than if they have never claim . my hon . friend rightly point out that this be a huge cause of stress to people . not only that , but carer be actually leave work , limit their hour and not take on additional responsibility . will he join I in call on the shadow Secretary of State to apologise to the 134 , 800 carer who have outstanding carer ' s allowance overpayment to a total value of £ 251 million ? this sit among the many injustice that the new Government have to deal with , and I think an apology be in order . in conclusion , I welcome this Government ' s review . I think there have be some excellent contribution from all part of the House , with some really serious issue raise such as student lose their eligibility to claim , my constituent ' point about universal credit and the point about respite care and young carer , and I do not think anyone have even mention kinship carer . I hope that this review will take account of all these thing so that we can deliver a fair deal for Britain ' s army of unpaid carer . I thank the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) for secure this important debate . I have almost 10 , 000 constituent in Barking who be unpaid carer , provide a vital and caring backbone for the community . my constituency have one of the high number of carer in the country , and we know that if those individual stop care and deliver their vital role , our overstretch care system would crumble and the economy grind to a halt . perhaps most importantly , the most vulnerable people in our community would stop receive the care and compassion that they get from their relative and friend . but carer do not stop , because they care about their friend or family member who need that support . whether it be a young carer look after a parent , or a daughter or son look after their elderly parent , such care be vital in our community . instead of a system that provide they with a safety net to help with the additional cost that come with care for someone , the system the Government have inherit be a real mess . we be in a situation where our constituent face bill from the DWP landing on their doorstep . the current carer ' s allowance system be cruel , with a punitive cliff edge that force unpaid carer to choose between earn a basic income or care for their love one . it mean that if a carer go over the earning allowance by £ 1 , or indeed by 1p as we have hear in a number of speech , they be force to pay back the full amount that they receive , which could be a figure in the thousand . instead of a system that understand the need for flexibility , give the nature of be a carer and the reality of try to fit pay work around that , often with zero - hour contract and earning that change from week to week , the system penalise carer and threaten they with criminal prosecution . it be just another broken system leave by the previous Government that this Government have to sort out , and another part of the foundation of our country that we will fix to rebuild Britain . as I stand to speak on this important topic , I think of the 10 , 000 carer in my constituency . vital work will now progress , and hopefully it will be conclude swiftly by the Government , so that carer never have to choose between earn a proper income and care for a love one . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be on the radio this morning , and I listen to she on the BBC describe how " the benefit system can have a real impact on whether you incentivise or disincentivise work . " I hear from she that this new Government intend to incentivise work , and in that we wish they well . I wish to highlight the case of a constituent of mine , Amanda Jennings from Ottery St Mary , who reach out to I plead for support . she be a mother and a full - time carer for her adult son who have severe autism . Amanda be recently notify by the Department for Work and Pensions that she owe almost £ 2 , 000 date back to 2019 , due to carer ' s allowance overpayment . to compound that stress , a civil penalty be impose . her problem be that she have be receive wage slip give an hourly rate , and the payment be process by an external payroll agent , so she do not have a reliable monthly income like we do . despite raise query and assume that the DWP be receive up - to - date information , she be accuse — wrongly — of misreporte her income . the consequence for her family have be severe . her son , who have re - enter education after year of disengagement , have drop out , and her own health have deteriorate . she be not alone — more than 40 , 000 people nationally face similar financial penalty for minor income discrepancy . the liberal Democrat stance be plain : carer should not be punish for minor unintentional breach of income threshold . the current system be rigid and punitive , with a cliff edge that do nothing at all to incentivise work . early , I hear the former Secretary of State talk about the business of clawback , and whether it could be do retrospectively . look to the past , perhaps he need to be remind that with the furlough scheme , the previous Government fail to claw back million and million of pound — indeed , the Public Accounts Committee reckon £ 2 . 3 billion — that be incorrectly pay to employer whose employee continue to work while they be receive furlough money . it be just like the former Government to go after the people at the bottom of the pile who be most in need , when it be the people who have be describe today who most need the support . I hope that the Government will make the most of the independent inquiry that I be glad they have set up , and ensure that any change incentivise work and make work pay . this have be an extraordinarily interesting debate . I pay tribute to everybody who have speak and thank the would - be official opposition for have secure it . in my constituency of Chelsea and Fulham , we have nearly 7 , 000 unpaid carer , a quarter of whom provide more than 50 hour of care a week . I know many of they , and I know what a vital , tough job they do for their love one , as well as the value that carer bring to this country ' s economy — many speaker have touch on that . I also know that carer deserve to be treat with kindness , but instead have be treat with cruelty . my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) touch on the local cruelty that he have experience from his conservative council , but nationally , through a mixture of official incompetence and political indifference , carer have be treat cruelly . let we be clear : the Department for Work and Pensions cock up here and cock up badly . when carer tell official deal with universal credit that they breach earning limit , official do not necessarily pass that on to those official deal with carer ' s allowance . when carer ' s allowance official be alert to breach , they do not act , in many case for month . they do not look at their email , so payment be allow to build up , as have be remark on , to as much as £ 48 , 000 . then the Department for Work and Pensions swoop in , threaten prosecution and penalty , and in many case do not listen to perfectly reasonable explanation . it bring in a technical solution that fail to sort the problem out . why ? because it be woefully under - resource . those at the top of the Department for Work and Pensions have never properly apologise for the cruel system that they allow to be maintain for so long . why do they not do that ? it be simple : they take their cue , as people in the civil service do , from those above they — from their political master , the Ministers . the shadow Secretary of State be ask by the would - be leader of the opposition whether he have ever ask official how much overpayment be fraudulent . from his response , I suspect it be a question that he never ask . why do he not ask that , and why do he fail to publish the DWP report from 2021 on the overpayment crisis until just before the election ? I suspect the answer be that he be more interested in cover up than in find out what be go on and sort out the problem . I be delighted that the Labour Government be now sort this out . the review be a start . as many member have say , there be much more to be do to support unpaid carer , but they will no long be hang out to dry by a cruel , incompetent , indifferent Government , and that have to be a good thing . there be many honour in this role , and one be to be able to take part in important debate such as this and hear the expertise and passion of hon . member across the House . I will start by pay tribute to the many carer who do incredible work in my constituency . at time of immense need , they step in , day after day , support family member and make such an important contribution to those they love and to our community . our country simply would not function without they and their contribution , and I wish to share my immense gratitude to those carer from my area and beyond . their selflessness and dedication make this scandal all the more unfair , with carer push to breaking point and stress pile on stress . sadly , like too many issue , this crisis be totally ignore and leave to grow by the previous Government . at Wirral carer ' week early this year , I meet carer who have be impact by this issue , and I know the anxiety it have bring they , as they have have to juggle their caring responsibility with the uncertainty it have bring . stability be long overdue . carer need to know that lesson will be learn and that the mistake of the past will not be repeat . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that she will launch the independent review into carer ' s allowance overpayment , lead by the disability right expert Liz Sayce . we all wish she well with that important review . I also welcome the announcement by the Minister for Employment of the launch of a pilot to support carer far . with these step , I truly hope that carer feel value and listen to , that the issue they feel be important be bring to light and that there be support for they . I welcome today ' s announcement , and I hope that with it , our brilliant carer know that this Government be on their side . we get everybody in who want to participate , so well do . we now come to the Front Benchers . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I start by congratulate those hon . member who make their maiden speech this afternoon . the hon . member for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) give a brilliant description of her time teaching and the inspiration she provide to her pupil . as someone who grow up in Gloucestershire , I say to the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) that his town be our destination of choice for seaside day out . my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) represent another seaside town , and he and the honourable Jennie be both dear to the Liberal Democrat group . I pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) in bring forward her private Member ' s Bill in the last Parliament on unpaid carer ' s leave . we be truly proud of her achievement in bring that into law as the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 . I also thank my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) for all his work on care and carer , and for bring this debate to the House today . the carer ' s allowance scandal have be overlook for year . it be astonishing that it have take a Liberal Democrat Opposition day for this critical topic to finally receive the attention it deserve . the fact that we have have to bring this debate today — late in 2024 , after a change of Government and five year after MPs look into the carer ' s allowance scandal and conclude that there be no evidence of mass fraud — be shameful and a stain on the legacy of the previous Conservative Government . the Conservatives fail to take the action need . the Conservatives fail to tackle the cultural problem at the DWP . the Conservatives fail to care about carer . today , member from across the House have give voice to unpaid family carer , whom we should be thank , rather than punish . we have hear about how the DWP ' s action leave people feel insult , bully , harass and crush . that be not right . we should be lift up these people . we should be thank they , not hound they , for the love and care they give to their love one . the population of my Mid Sussex constituency be old than the average . across the country , the population be age . we can not shy away from the fact that we will as a society increasingly rely on carer . just because care often happen in home — in private and behind closed door — that do not mean that it be not important or that we can ignore it . I welcome the Government ' s announcement on commission an open and transparent report to review the carer ' s allowance overpayment , but question remain . will the Minister stop the shameful attempt to recoup overpayment ? will there be an amnesty on pursue past overpayment ? will they consider taper carer ' s allowance ? will they consult on whether 35 hour of care a week be the right threshold for claim carer ' s allowance ? how will they set about change the culture of the DWP , so that people never feel like criminal simply for care for their love one while try to work to pay the bill ? it be disappointing that the Government be seek to amend our motion to delete what carer be cry out for . after year of conservative neglect , we can not afford yet more dither and delay . as my hon . friend the Member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) say , unpaid carer save the taxpayer an astonishing £ 162 billion a year . the Government ' s financial worry would stretch far beyond the current £ 22 billion black hole be it not for those unsung hero . that be not just a statistic ; it represent a profound debt of gratitude that we owe to those who provide care . the social , emotional and financial value that unpaid carer bring to our community can not be overstate . this afternoon , member from all part of the House have make that point loud and clear . carer be not just caregiver ; they be a lifeline give support that our healthcare system would struggle to replace . there be , however , a danger in view care as merely transactional . care be far more than just fulfil a basic physical need ; it be about enable individual to achieve their potential and live fulfilling life — live that they deserve to enjoy . family carer support love one in way that help they thrive , not just survive . I close by thank the Government for their response today and for engage so constructively in this debate . I thank the charity that advocate for carer for the vital work they do . most importantly , I thank the 5 . 7 million unpaid carer across the country for all that they do , day in , day out , with love and compassion . they be the very good of we . we see what carer do , we hear what carer be say , and I and my liberal Democrat colleague will continue to speak up for they in this place . I call the Minister . I be pleased to be able to respond to this vital debate , which in both tone and importance have be one of the good I have hear in my two year in this place . I also add my thank to the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) for bring forward the Opposition day motion today , because this issue be clearly of concern to many member , and they be right to be concern . the right hon . member be one of many right hon . and hon . member to have make important contribution and speak with great passion on this crucial issue . the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) and for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) , my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) , my hon . friend the Members for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) and for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) , the hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) and for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) and other rightly speak about the important role that million of family carer play in provide support for disabled or elderly relative who need care at home . I echo those comment and add my own tribute to all family carer . much of their tireless work go unseen and unrecognised . like other member , I be privileged to witness glimpse of carer ' dedication through my correspondence and through event I attend in my constituency . run through today ' s debate be an underlying and understandable anger at the position we inherit from the last government , whereby family carer try to do the right thing have be leave with staggering overpayment , often run into thousand of pound . as my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) set out early , we be make sure that we understand precisely what have go wrong so that we can put the system right for the long term . our family carer deserve no less . many member , include the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) and for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , my hon . friend the Members for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) and for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) and the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) , and of course my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) and the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton , speak about their own experience as carer or the work they do locally to support organisation help family carer . I grow up watch my grandmother care for my grandad , struggle with Parkinson ' s disease , before later see my mum , one of the many hidden carer up and down the land , care for her mother — my nana — in her final year battle Alzheimer ' s disease . none of we in this House be blind to the work that carer do . they be fortunate to have some wonderful advocate . those include their mp , as we have see today , but also organisation such as Carers UK , the Carers Trust and the Learning and Work Institute , to name but three . the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , and I have already meet a delegation of carer and Carers UK , and he will be do so again shortly . he will also meet separately with the Carers Trust and the Learning and Work Institute , because we be determined to ensure that the voice of family carer and the organisation support they be at the heart of everything we do . I also want to pay tribute to the hundred of DWP staff , largely base in the north - west , who provide financial support to a million family carer through carer ' s allowance , day in , day out . the Government will spend record amount to support unpaid carer . real - term expenditure on carer ' s allowance be forecast to rise from £ 4 . 2 billion in 2024 - 25 to just over £ 4 . 7 billion a year by 2028 - 29 . I turn to some of the other point raise during the debate , with apology that time will permit I to address only some of they . let I take the opportunity to congratulate and pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) and for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) and the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) on their excellent maiden speech . they paint vivid picture of their constituency and I feel certain that they will go on to make significant contribution in this place . on the wide point , I will begin with the question of the adequacy of carer ' s allowance , set as it be at £ 151 per week . carer ' s allowance will be increase in April 2025 by the consumer price index to help ensure that it maintain its value . as well as carer ' s allowance , carer in low - income household can claim income - relate benefit such as universal credit and pension credit . [ Official Report , 23 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) those can be pay to carer at a high rate than to those without care responsibility through the carer element and the additional amount for carer respectively . for example , over 750 , 000 carer household on universal credit can already receive an additional £ 2 , 400 a year through the carer element . that say , the House should be aware that issue beyond the scope of the independent review announce today be not be ignore ; this be merely a first step towards progress . the Government be also look at the broad question of how to provide the good possible support for family carer , although I do not want to pre - empt that work today . let I turn to the question of a taper , which be raise by a number of right hon . and hon . member . at the moment , introduce a taper in carer ' s allowance would significantly complicate the benefit , with award have to be adjust manually on a weekly basis for some of those declare earning . that would add to administrative cost and could mean more fraud and error . those also receive universal credit would need to have that adjust if their payment of carer ' s allowance change because of an earning taper rate . a taper could be introduce only follow significant change to the IT system that support payment of carer ' s allowance . for the moment , therefore , it be not possible . on the potential writing off of overpayment , which be at the heart of many of the excellent contribution that we hear , an overpayment can occur through fraud , or through claimant or official error . the Secretary of State have an obligation to protect public fund and ensure that , wherever possible , overpayment be recover , but determine what good we can do to support those who have accrue overpayment be within the scope of the independent review , as be how such overpayment occur and what we can do to ensure that we take all the step we can to reduce the risk of such incident happen again . let I turn briefly to the comment of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) . he list the many intervention that the last government supposedly make to improve the lot of carer — seemingly include the private Member ' s Bill of the hon . member for North East Fife — but after 14 year of conservative government , we see carer who find themselves in heartbreaking situation have rack up huge overpayment . however , the right hon . Gentleman correctly set out the incredibly complex nature of the carer ' s allowance system , with allowance for legitimate expense , pension contribution and so on , and why resolve this matter be therefore not straightforward . that be why the independent review be the correct mechanism and next step to fully understand what go wrong and why , and how we can put thing right . I welcome his support for the review . many colleague refer to the role that family carer play in ease pressure on the social care system , and indeed in support our economy , and they be entirely right to do so . I acknowledge everything that carer do . they be hero . we appreciate how much society rely on unpaid carer , we recognise the challenge they face and we understand the need for change . support carer be both a moral and an economic imperative , so we will help carer stay in pay work , we be spend record amount on carer ' s allowance and we will sort out the overpayment scandal we inherit . that be why we have announce the independent review today : so that , together , we can rebuild the trust that have be lose and ensure that those who offer comfort , dignity and support to the one they love be give all the help they need in return . I hope right hon . and hon . member will acknowledge that work today by support the Government amendment . question put ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the Question . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake Seamus Logan James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Brendan o ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Robin Swann Luke Taylor Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jamie Stone Susan Murray Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 87 , Noes 335 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . question agree to . Main Question , as amend , put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise the remarkable contribution that the UK ' s 5 . 7 million unpaid carer make to society ; believe it be essential that carer be provide with the support they need at the time they need it ; condemn the previous Government for fail to address the scandal of demand for repayment of Carer ' s Allowance ; and welcome the Government ' s review into how these overpayment have occur , what good can be do to support those who have accrue they and how to reduce the risk of these problem occur in future . access to Primary Healthcare I inform the House that I have select amendment ( a ) , table in the name of the Prime Minister . I call Helen Morgan . I beg to move , that this House regret that the NHS have be plunge into crisis by year of neglect by the previous Government , leave far too many people wait week to see a gp or unable to find an NHS dentist , and child and adult waiting month or even year to receive the mental health care they need ; believe that everyone should be able to access high - quality primary care service when they need they and where they need they ; condemn the previous Government for preside over a fall in the number of full - time equivalent fully qualified GPs and NHS dentist in the last Parliament ; far regret that the Government have not yet set out a plan to invest in primary care at the level need to meet demand ; call on the Government to boost access to GPs , NHS dentist and community pharmacist ; and far call on the Government to give everyone the right to see a gp within seven day or within 24 hour if they urgently need to and to guarantee access to an NHS dentist for everyone need urgent and emergency care . it be a real honour to open this debate on the Liberal Democrats ' first Opposition day for 15 year . primary care be the front door to the health service , but for too many people at the moment , that door be close . whether they be wake up and deal with the 8 am call frenzy to get a GP appointment , frantically ring every dental practice in their area for an NHS dentist , or turn up at their local pharmacy to pick up a prescription for their love one or themselves and find it unexpectedly close or the medicine out of stock , primary care be in terrible trouble and it need fix urgently . that be not only to make life well for the people who be suffer because they can not access the primary care they need , but to allow the NHS to function more efficiently . accident and emergency be not a decent substitute door to the NHS . I be an asthmatic and as a young person I have quite serious asthma . I can remember when primary care be absolutely there for I in the middle of the night . on lot of occasion when I need help , my dad do not have to take I to the hospital in an ambulance . somebody come to I with a nebuliser and get I sort out within a couple of hour , and then we all go back to bed . now , that be not an option for a lot of people . the NHS be in a crisis , and that be cause pain and suffering unnecessarily . the crisis be also cost far more than we can afford . it be costly because early intervention and deal with people in their community or at their home be so much more efficient than take somebody to hospital , even if that be in a private car . and it be costly because it cause people genuine pain : the BBC report that in Oswestry in my constituency this year , a man remove his molar with a pair of plier because he could not find an NHS dentist . but it be also costly because people be unable to access work , and that be cost the economy . polling commission by the Liberal Democrats show that one in four people have be unable to go to work while wait for a primary care appointment . that be not good for an economy that urgently need to grow . we need urgent investment in primary care — in doctor , dentist and community pharmacist — to save people from have to go to hospital . on pharmacy , a new report from Healthwatch England reveal a worrying picture of pharmacy closure and reduce hour hit old people and rural community the hard . NHS Norfolk and Waveney integrate care board , which cover much of my constituency , have report the high number of hour lose per pharmacy . do the hon . Lady agree that we urgently need a national evaluation of pharmacy funding , include the size , role mix and distribution of the pharmacy workforce ? that be an important point . in my constituency , carer who go to pick up prescription medicine be find that the pharmacist be not there because they be rely on locum . the pharmacy funding problem need to be address as a matter of urgency , and I will say more about that later . grow the economy be so important that we need to get people off the waiting and referral list and back into work . liberal Democrats believe that people should be in control of their own life , not " chain up " at home , unable to get out of bed , because they have no access to healthcare . they should be able to get the help that they need , when they need it , in their own home and community . let we start with GPs . the liberal Democrat manifesto — it be well receive , which be why there be so many member sit behind I on these Benches — call for the right to see a gp within seven day or 24 hour if the situation be urgent , and for those aged over 70 or with a chronic health condition to have access to a name GP . those right be extremely important . People who go to the same gp for more than 15 year have a 25 % low chance of die than those who have see a new gp in the last year . primary care network tell I that their inability to deliver continuity of care because of the shortage of GPs be one of the problem that worry they most . my hon . friend be make a brilliant introductory speech . be she aware that perhaps only a third of those leave medical school and seek to go into general practice be able to find job , partly because the additional role reimbursement scheme — which do exist — can not be extend to enable some of those would - be gps to be recruit ? be it not mad that although we be create enough potential gps through medical school , we can not give they job because of the funding mechanism that this Government inherit from the last one ? we be lose they from general practice , and , in some instance , lose they from the country altogether . my hon . friend be entirely right . I believe that the Government be take step to address that , but he have make an important point about the need for flexible GP funding . a general practice may have money to spend on professional and need more fully qualified doctor to deal with its patient list , but can only spend that money on another pharmacist or another nurse . that be a ridiculous situation , and I be pleased that the Government be deal with it . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will make some progress . People do much well if they have access to continuity of care , but 8 , 000 more gps be need to deliver the right that we lay out in our manifesto . we do not shy away from the fact that that be an ambitious objective , and we accept that it can not be achieve through training and recruitment alone : we need to retain and incentivise our exist workforce . as I say early , see people in their community avoid hospital admission and save money . unfortunately , although the Conservatives promise we 6 , 000 more gps in 2019 , we end up with 500 few . that be why people be so frustrated . accord to the finding of research carry out by the House of Commons Library , GP funding have fall by £ 350 million in real term since 2019 . as a result , not only be people struggle to gain access to basic care in their community , but there be a postcode lottery when it come to availability of that care . in the area where I live , which be cover by NHS Shropshire , Telford and Wrekin , the number of fully qualified GPs fall from 280 in 2016 to 242 in 2023 , despite an increase and increasingly age population with a much high level of demand , while 43 % of patient be wait more than 28 day for non - urgent appointment . the Darzi report show that the number of people wait for long period for appointment be rise throughout the country : it be a national issue . we know that from our own doorstep conversation . member might ask I , " where be you go to get 8 , 000 more gps from ? that be a big number . " apart from train new one , we should value greatly our experienced one . a recruitment and training programme be one idea , and , as my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) point out , use the dentist we have train properly be extremely important , but we also need to focus on retention and incentivise our exist gps , to ensure that we hold on to valuable experience and valuable patient continuity . let I move on from GPs to local pharmacy . Pharmacy First be a great idea of the previous Government — I be willing to give they credit — but pharmacist be under huge strain . accord to the Darzi report , some 1 , 200 have close since 2017 , and spend under the community contract have fall . tomorrow I be go to visit Green End pharmacy in Whitchurch , in my constituency , which write to I : " as an independent pharmacy , we ' re unable to keep on absorb cost with loss on dispense . " the pharmacy be struggle because it be make loss on the drug that it give out on prescription . give that it be a small , independent pharmacy , it do not have a massive shop from which to make profit to subside that work . in 2023 , Community Pharmacy England warn of " systemic pharmacy funding cut of at least 25 % in real term since 2015 . " that have lead to a postcode lottery of access , and to many pharmacy be unable to have a full - time pharmacist and rely on locum , which have lead to a really poor and insecure level of service . that be impact on people who just need to go and pick up their prescription and get on with their day . the NHS be devolve in Scotland , but the UK Government have responsibility for continuity of supply of medication . I have constituent with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder who have be wait for up to a year to secure that continuity of supply . do my hon . friend agree that we need to see more action from the Government , who should be proactive in that regard ? that be a really important point . a lot of people in my constituency have contact I for help with drug — for example , to deal with ADHD . People need to be able to access important medication readily . we must not forget the dentistry element of primary care . a generation of child be at risk of poor oral health because of the mess in which dentistry have be leave by the previous Government . Tooth decay be the big cause of child be admit to hospital , with over 100 , 000 admit since 2018 . that be totally unacceptable . some 4 . 4 . million child have not be see by an NHS dentist in the last year , accord to the House of Commons Library . dentistry be really important for child — they have to keep their tooth for the rest of their life — but this issue affect adult too . my constituent Ron Kelly , who be 62 , be disabled and live in Market Drayton . member who have be around a while might know that it be not easy to catch a bus to anywhere from Market Drayton . he have not be able to find a dentist since 2019 , and my caseworker have ring every NHS dentist in our constituency . none of they be take on new patient , so even if he be able to use the bus , he would not be able to find an NHS dentist in North Shropshire at the moment . office for National Statistics datum release last week show that , in the midland , 99 % of people who do not have an nhs dentist , and who be try to find an appointment , can not access one — 99 % ! it be just unbelievable in a modern country in the 21st century . my hon . friend mention the challenge that many of our constituent face when try to get access to NHS dentistry . I be think about some of my own constituent who have talk to I and , indeed , show I their home dentistry result . [ hon . member : " Urgh ! " ] yes . do my hon . friend agree that we should learn from good practice that be take place across the country ? my Hazel Grove constituent be struggle to find dentist , but because of some reallocation of exist funding in Greater Manchester , new appointment have be make available . do she agree that we should look at good practice to learn what can be deliver elsewhere across the country ? flexibility of contracting be critical , and learn from good practice elsewhere in the country will help to address the problem . I want to highlight how silly it be that people can not find an NHS dentist when they need one , because NHS dental funding be actually go unspent . in Shropshire , Telford and Wrekin , the area I know about , £ 1 million be claw back in 2022 - 23 because dentist be unable to spend the money allocate to they ; they do not have enough staff to work the contract with they . I meet someone last year who have not have a day off work — we be in October by that point — and he have to hand back his contract . the Government have propose golden handshake , but I have hear on the ground that they do not work , certainly in Shropshire . we need a reform contract , flexible commissioning , a proper statutory requirement for workforce planning , and the ability for dentist to use their funding to manage their own practice in a way that allow they to make a bit of money out of treat patient on the NHS . I also want to highlight the public health grant cut by the Conservatives and how important it be to reverse they be . it be a complete false economy to cut programme that help with oral health and prevent poor tooth and future dental problem , when we could spend the money up front so that it would cost far less in the future . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress now , if that be okay , because I be conscious that lot of people want to get in and make full speech . we have call for a guarantee for urgent and emergency dental care . check - up for those people who be already eligible and those need check - up before thing such as chemotherapy and surgery be also in our manifesto . it be only go to be possible to offer those guarantee if we deal with the issue in the dental contract and the flexibility of commission . primary care be the front door to the NHS , as I mention at the beginning , and Lord Darzi point out in his report that that be where we should be invest . at the moment , money be flow to secondary care — to hospital — yet most people ' s experience of the NHS be with their doctor or dentist . we must ensure that that first point of call be a good point of call , and reduce the number of people go to A & E . that be so much more cost - effective , but it be also so much well for those people who could manage their health condition without a crisis and without ever have to go near a hospital . we should also think of the knock - on impact on those hospital . we all have horror story of ambulance queue up outside hospital because so many people be in A & E and so few people can flow through the hospital . the issue around that be complex , and they link in to social care as well , but the reality be that if we can treat people in the community , we will save the life of people who need emergency care . this be absolutely fundamental : we need investment in our GPs and in dental and pharmacy contract because we can not afford not to do it . in addition to pharmacist and dentist , I would like to mention my profession . optometrist can really play a role in reduce the strain on primary and secondary care . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . that be an important point and I apologise for not make it in my speech . optometry be really important , and as somebody who spend their whole life look for their other glass , I can absolutely appreciate his point . should ' ve go to Specsavers ! [ laughter . ] other optician be available . other optician be available , but I do ! the liberal Democrat manifesto suggest solution to these problem , and they have be well receive , as I mention before . we have a record number of mps , and that be because we put this issue front and centre of our election pledge . I urge the Government to reverse the catastrophic state that the NHS have be leave in by the Conservatives , to take our idea on board and to invest in primary care as soon as possible . rise — Order . before I call the Minister , I must respectfully point out that a huge number of Members wish to speak , and that intervention from member will only eat up the time available to colleague and , in some instance , themselves . I call the Minister , Karin Smyth , to move the amendment . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " Parliament " to the end of the question and add : " ; welcome the urgency with which the new Government commission Lord Darzi to conduct an independent investigation of the NHS in England ; recognise that within week of take office the Government invest £ 82 million to recruit 1 , 000 newly qualified gps ; note the Government commitment to tackle the dental crisis by provide 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment and recruit new dentist to the area that need they ; approve the Government ' s commitment to expand the role of pharmacy and well utilise the skill of pharmacist and pharmacy technician ; and welcome the Government ' s commitment to far reduce unnecessary bureaucracy as care shift from hospital to community . " I recognise that many people want to speak , so I will be as brief as possible . I begin by thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for start this debate . I think she speak for we all when she say that she spend a lot of time look for her glass — I recently decide to go for the varifocal option just to avoid that problem . she also speak for we all when she say that we all know how great it be when primary care be there for we . I be proud to have work with primary care across the piece in south Bristol for many year . although the hon . Lady and I be on opposite side of the Chamber , I think we can agree that the last Government break primary care at the same time as they be break the NHS . throughout my time in opposition , and in my first three month in government , I simply have not meet or speak to a GP , a pharmacist , a dentist or , indeed , anyone else work in primary care who have say , " everything be go swimmingly . my patient be happy , and this be exactly what I sign up for . " Lord Darzi ' s review tell the same story and set out an enormous charge sheet , and we still have not hear whether the conservative party agree or , indeed , whether it will apologise . the list be far too long to repeat in full . hospital workforce and budget have shoot up , yet full - time equivalent GP number have be allow to shrink by over 1 , 500 over the last seven year . promise to shift resource to the community have be repeatedly break , and our primary care estate be not fit for purpose . shockingly , one in five general practice building be old than the NHS itself . the Minister may be aware that I lobby Health and Treasury Ministers in the previous Government for the good part of a year and a half to review outdated Treasury rule that prevent GP practice that want to move from stay within a city centre — the outdated rule force they to move to ring - road location , away from the population they serve . will the Minister look at this issue with fresh eye , with her new glass , and work with Treasury colleague to review these outdated rule ? I thank the hon . Lady for her assiduous work in opposition . look at the capital estate be one of my favourite new responsibility , and our commitment to a neighbourhood service mean that we need to bring service together . we need to look at this across the piece , to make sure that primary care be provide where it be need . we often hear about hard - to - reach group , but I do not think they be that hard to reach . frankly , service be sometimes locate in the wrong area . one of our key commitment be to shift service into community , and the neighbourhood service programme be part of that . just three in 10 NHS dentist be accept new adult patient , and geographical inequality be vast . More than 1 , 200 pharmacy have shut their door for good since 2017 . again , the record speak for itself : public satisfaction with general practice have fall from 80 % in 2009 to just 35 % last year . if there be any reason why the conservative Benches be empty , it be because dissatisfaction with access to primary care be so stark , as we learn in July ' s general election . it be absolutely clear that primary care be break , but NHS staff work in primary care do not break it ; the last Government do . they cut funding for the community pharmacy contract , they fail to incentivise enough dentist to perform nhs work , and they pursue a disastrous top - down reorganisation of the NHS , with which we be still live . the last government might have break the NHS , but it be not beat . nhs staff remain as passionate , dedicated and skilful as ever , and this Government will work in lockstep with they , their counterpart in social care and local partner across the country to fix the NHS . will the Minister give way ? I be tempt , but I know that many of the hon . Lady ' s colleague want to speak , and I be sure she be on the list . fix the NHS will take year of discipline and hard work , and we be in this for the long haul . however , we must first clean up the mess we inherit , and that work have begin in earnest . we have find the funding to recruit an extra 1 , 000 GPs this year as our first step towards fix the NHS ' s front door and make the system more flexible . will the Minister give way ? yes , as that will be one from each side of the aisle . one of the key to delivery be the GP partnership model , which be the mechanism by which they be set up . the Secretary of State , who be now in his place , say in 2023 that he want to phase out the GP partnership model , although he later renege on that position . it would be interesting to hear what the Government now perceive to be the good model for deliver primary care , as that be really important for GP partner . I wish the hon . Gentleman well with his own access to a gp at the moment . we be commit to work with the profession on the good way to organise primary care . the critical point be that primary care , however it be organise in neighbourhood , be there for our constituent when they need it . it be not there now . the model be not work and have not work over a period of time . it have merit , as we have say , and we be continue to talk to people . I have work in the sector for a number of year , so I understand the point the hon . Gentleman make . on that point , will the Minister give way ? no , I want to move on . I will take one more intervention from the Government Benches at some point and then it be all fair , but I want to allow time for hon . member to speak . in our first week , we pledge to increase the proportion of NHS resource go into primary care , and in our first month , the Government make a down payment on that pledge , provide GP practice with their big funding increase in year . but we be not just increase funding ; we be also cut the red tape that stop many staff do their job . some GP practice currently have to fill in more than 150 different form to refer patient into secondary care service . they be spend as much as 20 % of their time on work create by poor communication with their secondary care colleague . that be totally nonsensical in 2024 and it have to change . Time spend do needless paperwork and bureaucracy mean appointment lose for patient , which be why we have launch a red tape challenge to bulldoze bureaucracy and free up GPs to deliver more appointment . it will be lead by Claire Fuller and Stella Vig , establish leader in primary and secondary care . they will check with staff what be work well and what need to change , so we can take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . initiative like Consultant Connect in south London allow GPs to talk to mental health consultant in real time , reduce the number of referral they have to make by 40 % . deliver across the country , such scheme could save thousand of hour of time and create thousand of new appointment — that be what our red tape challenge be all about . we want to help patient see specialist fast . start in November , 111 online will pilot directly refer woman with a worrying lump to a breast clinic . that mean fast diagnosis for cancer patient and more GP appointment free up , which be well for patient and well for GPs . on dentistry , as the hon . member for North Shropshire outline , we inherit an NHS dentistry system in disrepair thank to 14 year of chaos , failure and neglect . as we have to keep remind Conservative Members , it be a national scandal that tooth decay be the lead cause of hospital admission for five to nine - year - old . we all see that in our constituency . the last Government break their relationship with the British Dental Association , as they break so many relationship . during the election campaign , we pledge to meet the BDA immediately upon take office to start rebuild the relationship , and that be exactly what we do . the BDA be right that the last Government ' s dentistry recovery plan do not go far enough . we be keep part of it that be the right solution , include the golden hello and some other measure , but we want to go far to deliver an NHS rescue plan that get dentistry back on its foot . we be work around the clock to end the truly dickensian tooth decay that be blight our child . as well as our additional urgent appointment for all age , we will work with local authority to introduce supervised tooth brushing for three to five - year - old in our most deprived community . we will see the difference get they into healthy habit can make , protect their tooth from decay and end the national scandal the last Government preside over . on pharmacy , previous government dither and delay , fail to find a sustainable and long - term funding solution . NHS England be work with the sector to assess the cost of provide pharmaceutical service , and we look forward to see its outcome . consultation around this year ' s funding and contractual arrangement with Community Pharmacy England do not make it over the line before the election be call , so we be look at that as a matter of urgency . we want to continue to make it easy for pharmacist to take referral and support people with common condition , use prescribing skill to treat a wide range of condition and patient . pharmacist be highly skilled people in our community . allow patient to get the care they need in the community , save time and free up gp appointment by use the skill of pharmacist , will be really helpful for the wide system . those be our first step . primary care be central to the three big shift that underpin our ten - year plan to make the NHS fit for the future , take it from analogue to digital , from sickness to prevention , and from hospital to community . we will soon begin a public consultation that will be the big listening exercise in NHS history . I look forward to take part in that and I urge all right hon . and hon . member , their constituent , and staff across primary care to tell we what be work and what need to change . we will use their response to take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS and build a neighbourhood health service . technology will help doctor , dentist and pharmacist meet demand for same - day appointment , give patient a digital front door to end the 8 am scramble . big datum will end the cruel postcode lottery of health inequality , so that we can take screening , check and care directly to the community that need it most , intervene early to prevent ill health and deterioration . we want colleague from across primary care to come together with their partner in social care and mental health to work in lockstep , as one team , to treat patient in the comfort of their own home , which be where those patient want to be . that be the neighbourhood health service that we want to build . that be the future that our constituent want to see . in the interest of time , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will conclude . our constituent be let down by the previous Government . they be let down by broken promise , underfunding and a failure to listen to patient and staff . we will repair the damage . we have already begin invest in GPs and pharmacy to fix what be break . we will cut the red tape , speed up treatment , and build a neighbourhood health service that work for everyone . the NHS may be break , but it be not beat . we be determined to rebuild it for our people , our community and our country . as a doctor myself , I wish to start by recognise the substantial work ethic and expertise of my primary care colleague and thank they for all that they do . say what be wrong with the NHS be very easy ; solve problem take much long and be far more difficult . rather than the next few hour be fill with constructive idea , I expect that we will simply hear complaint about the challenge face by the NHS , perhaps some party political jibe and a wish list of promise and the thing that people want to see , but no concrete plan on how to deliver they beyond more money . I hope that I be wrong about that , but I suspect that I be not . our NHS be face significant challenge . we have an age population with more complex health need , a rise demand for service and a rapidly grow population . we also have the legacy from the pandemic , which many be quick to forget . although we be the first country to deliver a vaccine , there be many persistent problem stem from the pandemic . let I give the House an example . before the pandemic , in 2019 , there be 54 woman who have be wait more than a year to see a gynaecologist , but due to the reduction in elective activity during the lockdown , by the time the pandemic be over that number be more than 40 , 000 . this be , of course , replicate across other medical specialty . although my secondary care colleague have be work extremely hard to reduce those number — and , indeed , they have fall — the individual concern will , on average , visit their GPs more while they be wait and that inevitably put more pressure on primary care service . the simple truth be that we give the NHS more money than it have ever have and , as a result , it have deliver more clinical activity than ever before , but the age population , the rise demand for service and the legacy of the pandemic have mean that , in place , that have not be enough . many people be not be see as quickly as we would want they to be . the previous Labour Administration do not do enough to train new doctor , and the reality be that we can not train one overnight . the Conservative Government build five new medical school , and the graduate of those medical school have recently start work . the Secretary of State say that he will double the number of medical student . that be an item on his wish list with which I agree , but I do have a few question . will he build new medical school , expand the old one , or do both ? if he be go to build new one , where will he build they ? [ interruption . ] the Minister for Secondary Care be talk about primary care . I believe that doctor be a part of primary care . the UCAS deadline to apply for most medical school place to start next autumn be yesterday , so when do the Secretary of State expect these new place to be available and those new student to start ? on the broad primary care workforce , we expand the number of primary care professional in GP practice , such as dietitian and physiotherapist , and we deliver 50 million more GP appointment last year than in 2019 . we also see the launch of Pharmacy First , which deliver more care in the community while ease pressure on GP appointment . I be pleased to hear the Liberal Democrat spokesman acknowledge the success and the benefit of that programme . I have a few question for the Secretary of State . the Conservatives produce the first NHS workforce plan . can the right hon . Gentleman say whether he will proceed with those plan or write a new one ? what be the timescale for his plan ? in the spring Budget , we have the NHS productivity plan , with £ 3 . 4 billion to improve NHS productivity . do the right hon . Gentleman still intend to follow that ? the Minister for Secondary Care say that she be recruit 1 , 000 GPs . can the Secretary of State tell we how many have be recruit so far ? the Secretary of State and I also agree on the ability of technology to improve nhs service . as a new member , I be learn how this place work , so I be interested to see how much you expect the Labour Government to have achieve in 100 day . why be it , after 14 year , that you leave the country with the long waiting list ever and small child have to get their rotten tooth see at A & E ? what can you say that be helpful to we in understand why the failure of 14 year of Conservatism take place , and do you feel any remorse about that ? order . before I call on the shadow Minister to return to the Dispatch Box — I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . I use the word " you " instead of " the hon . member " . yes , several time . it be not I ; I have never be a Health Minister . I reiterate that intervention will have to be short . I will be impose a time limit , as we have to hear from an enormous number of member this afternoon . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I have talk about the challenge the NHS face . I will come shortly to the achievement of the Labour Government so far in the Department of Health and Social Care . turn back to technology , I be say that I agree with the Secretary of State on how technology can improve nhs service . over the last few year , in my professional capacity , I have see improvement in make communication between primary and secondary care and within secondary care much more efficient . as a patient , I have use the askmyGP service , which be an excellent way to communicate with a gp , particularly for work people . I have also use the NHS app , which million of people have download and which have huge potential . I hope he intend to build on that potential and harness the benefit of AI for diagnostic in particular . the Secretary of State and I also agree on the importance of prevention . it be vital to make the NHS accessible to those who need it , but it be even well if people stay healthy in the first place . before the election , he be supportive of measure to protect child from the danger of vaping — measure I campaign for actively . in fact , he be quite critical that it have not be do soon , as in some respect be I . give that the legislation have already be write and that it pass both Second Reading and Committee stage with the support of his friend on the Labour Benches , why be it take he so long to produce a tobacco and vape Bill ? can he guarantee that he will deliver it , like a present , in time for Christmas — for clarity , I be hope for this Christmas ? have you be naughty or nice ? I have be a good girl , thank you , Secretary of State . furthermore , can the Secretary of State explain how cancel dozen of new hospital will reduce pressure on general practice ? can he explain how cut the winter fuel payment for million of pensioner will help the NHS ? the end Fuel Poverty Coalition predict that labour ' s winter fuel payment cut will result in an additional 262 , 000 pensioner need NHS treatment because they be cold , result in a great deal of suffering and million of pound of additional cost to the NHS . do he agree with that assessment ? I have ask repeatedly , in both oral and write question , if the Government will conduct a proper impact assessment of the policy on the NHS and on the wellbeing of vulnerable old people . will he commit to produce and publish such as report ? far on the issue of prevention , the right hon . Gentleman will know that folic acid supplementation can prevent neural tube disorder , such as spina bifida and anencephaly . the previous Government bring forward regulation on the matter . what conversation have the Secretary of State have with the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs about ensure that that work be continue ? our approach to dentistry be also underline by prevention . we introduce the Health and Care Act 2022 , which give the Secretary of State the power to introduce water fluoridation scheme . those power have since be use to extend exist scheme , particularly in the north - east of England . do the Secretary of State intend to continue that work and exercise the power the previous Government give he ? he know that I be passionate about dentistry . I have raise the issue many time in the House , include by secure an Adjournment debate on dentistry in Lincolnshire . it trouble I greatly that child be come to hospital for multiple dental extraction due to rotten tooth . it be worth note that the issue be not a shortage of dentist overall or , as the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) say , a shortage of money , but a shortage of dentist do nhs work rather than private work specifically . the previous Government be encourage dentist to take up nhs work with a range of measure , include golden hello for dentist in underserved area , dental van go out to rural community , and tie - in for new dental graduate . we be also in the process of broad contract reform after a small change in the unit of dental activity rate when we go into the election . let we look at Labour - run Wales in comparison . Wales be deliver only 58 % of pre - pandemic dental activity . it be burden with the high proportion of NHS dental practice not accept adult patient and the long waiting list in the UK . one in four Welsh resident be currently on a waiting list . the new Secretary of State for Wales have say that the Government " will take inspiration from " labour - run Wales on dentistry . give their woeful record in office , I sincerely hope that that be not the case . before the election , when I listen to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say that Labour have a plan to reform and modernise the NHS , I believe he , but in Monday ' s debate on the Lord Darzi report , we uncover that his plan be not really a plan at all , but a list of desire outcome and a proposal to make a plan if he get into office . it be unclear how long this plan will take to develop . the Minister for Secondary Care say that it be a listen exercise like we have never see before , but how much will that cost , and have Labour not be listen already ? why do the previous Government shift funding from secondary care to primary care , despite say that they would do the exact opposite ? essentially , because there be more clinical acute need in primary care hospital . give the choice , with one amount of money , between save a life and prevent a problem for later , it be inevitable that money get shift towards acute care . that be where the pressure be , but I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we need to work hard to prevent people from become ill in the first place . on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? no , I will not give way again , because I know that you will give I eye if I do , Madam Deputy Speaker . Labour have spend 14 year in opposition . the Secretary of State have have plenty of time to consider what he would do if he gain office , so , far to the intervention of the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) , what have the Government achieve in 14 week to help the health of the nation ? I will tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker . they have open the Department ' s door to their Labour mate . they have award an inflation - bust pay rise to junior doctor without negotiate any modernisation or productivity reform in return . they have oversee GPs enter industrial action and nurse reject their pay offer . they have scrap the social care cost cap . they have produce a report of select statistic with no policy recommendation . they have break their manifesto pledge to deliver the new hospital programme . they have take the winter fuel payment from million of vulnerable pensioner . they have even stop the child ' s cancer taskforce . that dire record , underline by the labour legacy in Wales , fill I with huge trepidation for the future of the NHS . I hope that when the Government ' s plan eventually come , it be a good one , for all our sake . I hear from many constituent in Aylesbury who be struggle to see their gp . for some , this be a frustration — a repeat one . for other , it be a tragedy . I sit with a constituent who share a heartbreaking story about a miss cancer diagnosis because it be impossible to get an appointment . the reason for the challenge be clear , as the Minister set out . in Aylesbury , two additional factor be create particular pressure . first , many new housing development have be build in the last 14 year without the necessary service to accompany they — for example , the promise GP surgery in Kingsbrook that be never build , add pressure to other surgery , such as Poplar Grove . secondly , there be high level of deprivation in part of Aylesbury . the well document link between poverty and ill health lead to patient have increase and complex physical and mental health need that GP surgery be not fund or equip to meet . let we be clear about the cause of these challenge , which be not the fault of patient , who like all of we be just try to stay in good health , or of GPs , who often work incredibly long hour in a system that let they down and wear they down . the problem be the broken system that this Labour Government have inherit after 14 year of conservative government . let I turn to the solution . the early step that we have take be a clear signal of our intent : the ending of the junior doctor strike , the red tape challenge that the Secretary of State launch with NHS England , and the measure that we take within week of be elect , include find £ 82 million of additional funding to enable the immediate recruitment of 1 , 000 more gps . I know from the GPs I be in touch with that that have make a real difference . there be still much work to do . I will highlight three area of necessary focus . first , we must expand the range of care available in the community . GP surgery waste time refer patient to hospital - lead community service when they know that they could treat those patient directly but do not have the funding or permission to do so . meanwhile , patient tell I that they have have to go to A & E for minor issue because there be no support close to home . our ambition for an expand range of support and service through neighbourhood health centre be absolutely right , and we be get straight to work on that . secondly , on technology , I hear time and again of GPs spend hour try to make referral to and from the hospital , battle IT system that be not intuitive and do not speak to each other . meanwhile , patient tell I that they can not fathom why there be not a well system for book appointment . there be great pilot scheme that could be roll out more widely . at the GP surgery in Edlesborough in my constituency , for example , a carefully design AI chatbot answer patient ' question where it can , and help GPs to prioritise which patient to see . thirdly , we need a firm emphasis on prevention in public health by drive up public awareness of health risk . on a recent visit to the main mosque in Aylesbury , for example , I see a stand with information about diabete . that be exactly the right way to get the right information in front of people . once public health risk be identify , we must empower patient to manage their own health as good they can . as Vernon Sharples , a mental health nurse in my constituency , say to I : " there be too much prescribing , too much emphasis on be ill , and not enough emphasis on be and stay well . " to I , take public health , include mental health , seriously , and build a society that understand and promote wellbee to keep people healthy before they need to seek treatment with a gp , be what a good preventive approach look like . achieve that vision will take a long time , and change can not come soon enough for people in my constituency who so desperately need to see their gp today or tomorrow , but we have start as we mean to go on , and we will not stop until we have achieve the change that we so desperately need . rise — before I call the chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , I inform the House that there will be time limit of three minute on Back - Bench speech and six minute on maiden speech . the challenge face the NHS be no secret . in my new role as Chair of the Select Committee , I have begin to meet key stakeholder . the list of thing that we need to consider be enormous . I pay credit to those who stand for the Committee , and welcome those who make it on . I understand that conservative member have be choose , but I do not yet know who they be — I ask they to forgive I if they be here . I look forward to crack on . I will start by highlight to Ministers a few of the report by the previous Committee , which I urge they to look at . one be on dentistry and another on pharmacy — and they be from 2023 and 2024 , so they be extremely current . there be a note of frustration in the dentistry report as it point out that it make the same recommendation that the Committee have make 15 year prior . I hope that this Government will take our Committee ' s recommendation extremely seriously . such cross - party recommendation be make thoughtfully — we be here to help . today , I will focus on the GP crisis . another Committee report from October 2022 , for which I take no credit — it be do by the previous Committee , so credit should go to its previous chair and member — point out what we already know : GPs be overstretch and patient be frustrated . the British Medical Association report that a single gp now manage an average of 2 , 282 patient , a significant increase on 2015 figure . I know that there be even more acute number across the country . that have lead to long wait time and difficulty in access care . one of my constituent write to I about his wife , who be struggle to book a GP appointment . the surgery do not even take phone call — or at least that be what she think . it open an online form for a few minute at 8 am , and as soon as the appointment be go , it close the form . we then call the practice , which point out that patient could ring , although it seem that that message be not get across to those patient . that experience be be feel across the country , but I do not blame the GPs , because they be try their very good . the Royal College of General Practitioners find that over 40 % of GPs might leave within the next five year , with stress be a key factor , and the crisis in general practice affect the entire NHS . when patient can not see a gp , they often turn to A & E , worsen pressure on emergency department . GPs play a vital role in manage long - term condition and co - ordinating social care at both end of that flow of patient . without a function general practice system , the entire healthcare ecosystem suffer . so what can be do ? the Committee make four main proposal , which I hope Ministers will include in their 10 - year plan . first , we need to urgently increase the number of fully qualified GPs in the system . that mean more than just train they : retention be also key . secondly , we must embrace and improve digital health solution , undertake a full review of all primary care it system from the point of view of clinician and patient . we also have to accept that for some people , digital just do not work . I be a member of that Committee and help to author that report . one of the key thing that we want to see from the clinical perspective be the ability to join up the IT side , so have a place to share technology be really important . for example , every GP practice suffer with the question of how to set up its appointment system , yet bizarrely , if I want to set up as a gp on my own , there be no centre of excellence to say what be the good way to do so . do the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee agree that it would be valuable if we have a single point of expertise that each practice could ask , " what ' s the good solution that you ' ve see elsewhere in the country ? " I thank the hon . gentleman for his work on the previous Committee . the gps I have speak to point to that report as describe what they would like to see do , so all credit be due to the idea that have come out of it . the third area I wish to mention be prevention , which be at the heart of the Darzi report . that report make it clear that focus on prevention and early intervention will relieve pressure on the NHS in the long run . finally , I want to talk about continuity of care , which be a key theme — indeed , an entire chapter — in the Darzi report . it make it clear that see the same gp over a long period lead to few hospital visit , low mortality and less cost to the NHS . this be not about some sort of nostalgic hark back to the way thing use to be : if we want to solve what be , in my view , the big thesis question in the NHS today — the productivity issue — we need to be look at intervention such as that . continuity of care within GP practice , understand the whole person and the whole family , be one of the way the report identify of make GPs ' time more productive . the challenge be immense , but not insurmountable . we owe it to our healthcare professional and , most importantly , the patient to fix this crisis , and I look forward to work collaboratively with my new Committee member to help the Government do so . some of we newly elect or return mp have only just get our accommodation and office sort out , so I commend the Government on the speed with which they have get surgeon back to work , resolve the doctor ' strike , review and assess the crisis and make announcement for a decade of national renewal . they have also affirm the view that our NHS should be treat not as a shrine or beyond question , but as something that must be return to deep service to our country and play its part as a health and economic public service . Lord Darzi ' s review for the Government highlight the critical issue in the NHS and the state we be in , and particularly the underfunding of primary care . it have be neglect in favour of a creep trend towards hospital service , under the fail principle of leave it late — the crisis mode set that apply across our public service under the last government . by design , people end up in A & E because of a failure to plan for GP and primary care , with 16 % few gps than other high - income country . the review also point out significant health inequality , with deprive area historically receive insufficient resource . in Bury North , child poverty be up to 43 % , densely concentrate in just three of our nine ward . life expectancy for those live in Bury North range enormously : the difference in life expectancy between North Manor and East Ward be five year for woman and nearly seven year for man . public health intervention cost only a quarter of the amount that clinical intervention do to add an extra year to life expectancy , so do my hon . friend agree that the reduction of the public health grant be an appalling false economy and should be restore , as soon as finance allow , to at least 2015 - 16 level of funding ? my colleague make a valid point ; I defer to her knowledge of the public health system . the distance of a mile or so have a huge impact for the man and woman live in east Bury . I urge those carry out the Government review to see how , in constituency like mine , specific intervention could address those deep health inequality and identify the work we need to do to resolve that impoverishment in densely populate area and that ingrain health inequality . I urge the Government also to adopt multidisciplinary care model and shift care close to home to address these issue — a sentiment that I know Ministers share . take a wide view , the funding formula be outdated and an update be long overdue . that update should take into account the weight of funding pressure for area such as mine , with a mix of economic and demographic inequality , include the fact that so much of the revenue that our local authority raise be immediately swallow up by adult care and the disastrous special educational need system — a symptom of the crisis mode mentality under the previous Government . the Government have waste no time , invest £ 82 million to recruit a thousand newly qualified GPs and address the dental care crisis with 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment . the Government also aim to expand the role of pharmacy — a measure I hugely welcome — to reduce the burden on our GP and hospital care , and crucially also for those live with chronic illness or condition . a boost to the engagement patient can have with health decision maker via the NHS app and an improved trust status for healthcare professional will boost this too and reduce the bureaucracy in our caring system . there be a well know say in good hospital , " the good hospital keep people out of they and get people out of they . " this principle strike at the heart of what have go wrong in recent year . the problem in A & E , emergency service and waiting time stem from a failure over the past 14 year to design by this doctrine . the key to resolve those issue lie in primary care — prevent people from need hospital service in the first place and enable fast discharge when they do . that be where the focus must be . today I speak as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on eat disorder . eat disorder be a national emergency . hospital admission have rise by 84 % in the past five year , while more than 80 , 000 sufferer be stick on waiting list while their condition get seriously bad . eat disorder be treatable , but the treatment must be timely and appropriate if sufferer be to make a full recovery . early diagnosis be crucial . accord to the charity Beat , approximately 1 . 25 million people in the UK have an eat disorder , and I be sure that many of my colleague have either a friend or family member or know about a constituent who be suffer from an eat disorder . the soon a person with an eat disorder access the right treatment , the more likely they be to recover . when eat disorder be leave undiagnosed or poorly treat , they can be killer . eat disorder be the mental health disorder with the high mortality rate , and there be still a stigma surround they . there be still too many who think that have an eat disorder be a choice . what a terrible thing to say about people who be suffer from an illness — that it be a choice . only 6 % of people with an eat disorder be underweight , yet some eat disorder service — and GP service — still only offer treatment to patient depend on their body mass index . many eat disorder sufferer be tell that they be not thin , or not thin enough . other be tell , once they return with an even low BMI , that they be too sick or their condition be too complex to be treat . that happen only because too many sufferer be leave untreated when full recovery be perfectly possible . will my hon . friend give way ? I would rather not , because too many people want to speak . nhs waiting time be one of the big barrier to treatment . at the end of 2023 - 24 , more than 10 , 000 child have enter treatment for an eat disorder , but 12 % of those be make to wait over three month for treatment — three time the target for a routine referral . miss the target waiting time standard can severely harm the progress of a child ' s recovery . even more shockingly , an access and waiting time standard for adult do not even exist . I will continue to work tirelessly to improve eat disorder care , in particular by fight for improved access for treatment and for more suitable treatment option for individual patient . we on the APPG have commission an inquiry , and I hope the Government will carefully listen to the recommendation . in 2024 , no one should be condemn to a life of illness , nor should anyone die of an eat disorder . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I be go to give some helpful guidance to Members still wish to speak : intervention be only go to eat up your own time and that of other , and may well see you put to the bottom of the list . I be glad that this debate have be call . across the House , story of failing in primary care be too familiar and , frankly , too distressing . the Darzi report make it clear that since the announcement in the late 2000 of the so - call left shift — the shift from hospital care to care in the community — we have see the number of people treat in hospital rise . indeed , 58 % of the NHS budget be now spend on hospital compare with 47 % in the late 2000 . as Darzi say , there be no left shift , just a " right drift " . let we be clear : GPs work hard and do a fantastic job . just a few week ago , I visit the fantastic Hebden Bridge group practice in my constituency . the 13 doctor conduct about 2 , 000 appointment a week , and while they be fantastically efficient , that be take its toll . the General Medical Council ' s national training survey — I use to be proud to work on that report every year — find that 68 % of GP trainer say they always feel wear out at the end of the day . this be simply unsustainable . we see the impact of the unsustainable model and the underfunding in our constituency every week . in my constituency , the Calder community practice in Todmorden close with over 2 , 800 patient on its book because there simply be not anyone able to take it on . the Darzi report make it clear that we need to prioritise primary care and care in the community . the left shift must not be a slogan , but create real action . it can not be right that , last year , 2 , 000 patient each day be admit to hospital for something that could have be treat elsewhere and close to home . I look forward to support the Government amendment , and to work across the House week in and week out to make sure that we rebuild the NHS and get it the support it need . the Darzi report make it very clear that our NHS be under - fund , overstretch and too hospital focus . that have also be a focus of today ' s debate so far . I welcome what I hear from the Secretary of State , in last week ' s debate on the Darzi report , about investment and reform , and a shift from hospital to community and from sickness to prevention . we all want those thing , but they will not happen without more investment , and without a crucial reform in the way the NHS be fund . we have see a drift towards an increase focus on acute service and on hospital service at the expense of investment in preventive healthcare and the primary service that we all recognise be so needed , and that my constituent in North Herefordshire so desperately want . they want to be able to see a gp , and they want to see the community frontline service that will save their health , and will save the NHS money , in the long run . can the Minister assure I that she and her colleague have be do everything possible to urge the Chancellor to make available the billion of pound of investment in the nhs that be necessary to bring we back up to scratch in comparison with our peer ? Darzi say that we be underfunde in comparison with similar health service . will she assure I that the Government be consider put in place some sort of mechanism to protect funding for primary and community care , and indeed to ratchet it up over the year ? the way thing happen at the moment be that hospital constantly overspend and those overspend be constantly plug , which be why the money be go more and more into hospital and less and less into primary care . will we get the billion of pound of investment in the Budget that we need , and will we get that protection and ratchet mechanism for primary care funding that be the only way to ensure that the extra doctor , extra appointment and so forth be deliver ? there be an old irish saying , " your health be your wealth " , and all the money in the world and all the nice thing mean nothing if we do not have our health . too many people in my constituency do not have good health — 10 % have diabete , which be high than the London and UK average , and the rate of preventable death be almost 14 % high than the England average . time and again when I knock on door across Ealing Southall , people tell I three thing : they can not get a GP appointment when they need it ; they can not see a doctor face to face ; and if they be lucky enough to see a doctor , they never see the same one twice . with long - term condition such as diabete , not see the same doctor be damage the health of my constituent . they be get sicker , and they end up rely more on expensive hospital service . in Southall , emergency hospital admission be 47 % high than the England average . why can ' t my constituent get to see a doctor ? for starter , there simply aren ' t enough . north - west London have a ratio of one gp for every 2 , 268 patient — a lot bad than the UK average . we have have 14 year of the conservative party run our NHS , and it be clear that it have run it into the ground . it start with a big - bang approach and the disastrous top - down reorganisation of the NHS . that cause so much damage that even they recognise it in the end , and they have to dismantle many of the change a few year later , but not before the rot have set in . since then , their approach have be like move the deckchair on the titanic . all they can come up with be piecemeal tweak and small pilot that never seem to amount to anything . in the meantime the NHS ship be slowly sink . Lord Darzi ' s independent and honest report find that patient have never be more dissatisfied with the service they receive . I can only take the empty conservative Benches as proof that they be finally embarrassed about it . we must also ask why Conservative Members have be happy to preside over 14 year of decline in our NHS . be it because they want it to fail , or to replace our NHS with a privatised american - style insurance system ? the mask slip during covid when they fast - track their private healthcare mate and hand they multimillion pound contract for often dodgy personal protective equipment . be that the future they have in mind for the NHS ? that be not what the public want , and it be why the public vote they out . my constituent in Ealing Southall be already impress by the new Government ' s approach . they know that the damage to the NHS be so deep that it can not be fix overnight . your health be indeed your wealth , Madam Deputy Speaker . the last Government fritter away that wealth , give it to their private healthcare mate , and squander it on damaging and costly reorganisation . this new Labour Government will turn the page on over a decade of Tory decay and help we all to live long , healthy life . I call Ian Roome to make his maiden speech . I have spend most of my work life in the NHS , but speak for the first time in the House , I must start with a confession : as some of the northerly member will recognise from my voice , I be not bear in the west country . it be now 35 year since I be post to what be then RAF Chivenor on the beautiful north Devon coast , while serve in the Royal Air Force . at the time , my flight sergeant at RAF Laarbruch in Germany tell I that go to north Devon would probably turn out to be an adventure . I confess to the House that I do not think this place be quite what he , or I , have in mind . first , I want to thank my family , friend , and all my supporter over the year — especially my two - year - old grandson Clayton , who probably win I one or two vote — as without they I would not be here . my constituency be fortunate to be famous for its stunning landscape and area of outstanding natural beauty , with beach , moor , farmland and forest that draw countless visitor every year . farming and tourism sustain many of our rural community , with historic market town such as South Molton , set in roll countryside , give way to stunning seaside destination such as Woolacombe , Instow and Braunton . Chivenor , where I be so lucky to be post all those year ago , be now home to the Royal Marines Commando Logistic Regiment , and my area have a proud military history . now - famous surfing beach , such as Woolacombe and Saunton sand , be once use as training ground to prepare ally force for the Normandy landing . behind the natural beauty , the challenge that my area face be stark . like many rural and coastal constituency , it suffer from low wage , which be nearly £ 100 a week less than the national average , and an acute housing shortage that price young people out of our community or prevent they from start a family in North Devon , as I do . even in the 2020 , part of my constituency still face real deprivation . in some part of Ilfracombe , for example , the proportion of young people attain level 4 qualification be barely above 25 % , while life expectancy be 10 year low than other part of Devon . out of uniform , I join the NHS , start out as a mental health nurse at North Devon district hospital — the most remote acute hospital in mainland England — visit patient across unique community , such as Combe Martin and Lynton , and eventually lead the campaign to build a chemotherapy and day treatment unit . my area suffer from shortfall in important medical service such as pharmacy , nursing and , in particular , dentistry . our hospital now have intensive care unit and operating theatre that be approach 50 year old and be desperately in need of investment from the new hospital programme . however , I have be astonish by the possibility on offer in my constituency . numerous coastal seat across the south - west , mine include , stand to benefit massively from investment in float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . clean energy , an extended supply chain and high - pay job could be a shot in the arm for the economy of the great south - west . I pay tribute to my predecessor Selaine Saxby , who be absolutely right to identify that as a massive opportunity that , if do right , could benefit the region for decade to come . North Devon district hospital will soon be home to a £ 1 . 4 million clinical research centre that will lead groundbreake study into heart condition , joint problem and osteoarthritis . few people know that Barnstaple , where I live , be also home to Accord Healthcare , a pharmaceutical group that manufacture a staggering 10 % of all the medication use in the NHS and be a vital part of this country ' s critical supply chain . it have just announce a new , groundbreaking , orally administer medication for prostate cancer . that be hot off the press this week and may benefit as many as 40 , 000 cancer sufferer , and it be among the first medication of its kind . another remarkable firm , Systems Engineering and Assessment , or SEA , have just win a £ 135 million contract to supply cutting - edge defensive countermeasure system to the Royal Navy . thank to its hard work and some innovative engineering on an industrial estate in my constituency , young people will be keep safe as they serve their country in uniform . my constituency be one of hide opportunity around every corner . we must seize they . it be an immense privilege for I to be North Devon ' s voice in this place , and I intend to do it justice . it be a privilege to follow that powerful maiden speech . I be certain that the hon . Gentleman will do his constituent proud , as he do in his time serve in our armed force . I welcome this debate . after 14 year of conservative government , our health service be in a critical condition . in my constituency , the drive from the centre of Hatfield to Welwyn East take about 10 minute , but the difference in life expectancy between the two area be now 10 year . the responsibility for the crisis sit not with our wonderful healthcare professional , but squarely with the previous Conservative Government . I have spend as much time as I can with our NHS hero , and I recently see the professionalism of our paramedic at first hand after join a shift with Daisy and Jake in the East of England ambulance service . they be a credit to their badge , and I be pleased to say that I get through blue light okay . but GPs be battle a backlog — in my constituency more than 2 , 000 people have be wait more than a month for a local appointment — dentist be withdraw from the NHS , include in Peartree ward in Welwyn Garden City , and , invariably , the most vulnerable be the most seriously impact . as the Darzi report make clear , people experience homelessness attend A & E four time as often as the general population and be eight time more likely to need in - patient care , all at immense cost to they and the overall NHS budget . we will only rescue our health service if we reform primary care , and that be why this debate be so important . despite rise demand , 5 % few nurse be work in the community in September 2023 than in September 2009 . the NHS Confederation be clear that spending in primary and community setting have a superior return on investment compare with spending on acute hospital service , and Darzi be clear that it " therefore make sense that " there should be a " fundamental strategic shift " to the community . innovative work be out there . in my constituency , the Hospital at Home service run by East and North Herts NHS trust be particularly powerful for those over 80 who need rehabilitation and care , but for whom the good place for that be their home and not the hospital . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , say that she be not expect to hear new idea , but they be out there , and it be the job of our Government to embrace they and take they forward . I have every confidence that this Labour Government will do that . the party that found the national health service have a clear vision for the future — from analogue to digital , from hospital to community , and from sickness to prevention . I call Llinos Medi . Diolch , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be deeply grateful to the committed NHS staff who deliver exceptional care in hugely difficult circumstance . health be of course devolve to the Welsh Government , but people on both side of the border will recognise the struggle to see their gp , increase waiting list , and the dire state of A & E service . waiting list for hospital treatment in Wales reach a record high this year , and NHS dentistry be non - existent in many part of Wales . in my constituency , Valley Dental will soon become the fourth practice to withdraw NHS service since late 2022 . between January and December 2023 , only 44 . 8 % of people in Wales receive treatment through an NHS dentist , and in north Wales that figure be 36 . 6 % . despite that , the Secretary of State for Wales have hail Welsh NHS dentistry as a model of success . follow a long campaign by Plaid Cymru , the north Wales medical school recently open its door at Bangor University , despite previous claim by the Welsh Labour Government that there be " no case " for it . I hope the Government will be receptive to our new campaign for a dentistry school at the university , which would secure high - quality job for north Wales and provide more dentist for an area beset by shortage . at the Labour party conference , the Secretary of State for Wales announce that patient from Wales could receive NHS treatment in England , and vice versa , under UK and Welsh Government plan to reduce waiting list , yet the Welsh Government Cabinet Secretary for Health and Social Care categorically rule out give patient the option to travel to England for more treatment . my party obtain freedom of information response from three NHS body , two in England and one in Wales . all three say they have receive no correspondence from the UK Government or the Welsh Government regard the proposal . perhaps the Secretary of State could explain to the House what the plan mean for patient in Wales . fourteen year of under - investment and the creep advance of privatisation have place a heavy burden on our NHS . pursue the same tired route will not deliver the thriving and improved health service that we all want to see for staff and patient . of all our public service , our NHS be the one that unite we the most . it be in the room that our child our bear in . it be there when our parent get old and when we receive the bad possible news . it be there for we no matter who we be , what we do or what we earn . our NHS belong to we all . the previous Government inherit an NHS that be work , with the high satisfaction level and low waiting time in its history . the state of the NHS today , where 2 . 8 million people struggle to contact a gp every month , demonstrate their utter contempt not just for this precious institution , but for the people it serve . there can be no great example of the previous Government ' s failure than the decline health of our young people . last year , the number of under 18 - year - old on waiting list for paediatric care in England soar to a record high of over 400 , 000 . as Lord Darzi ' s report show , our child be some of the sick in Europe , with the high rate of obesity , diabete , and poor oral and mental health . under the previous Government ' s watch , 40 % of child lose regular access to a dentist , the number of child wait more than 52 week for community health service hit 94 % in just two year , and one in 5 child be estimate to have a mental health problem but be unable to access the right treatment . the previous Government fail our child from head to toe . that be reflect in the experience of young people in my constituency , where they and their family wait month and sometimes even year for support . parent be desperate for help , young people be desperate for healthcare and everyone be desperate for hope . Labour have fix our NHS before and under this government we will fix it again . follow Lord Darzi ' s report , the Prime Minister have recognise the need to change our health service , and have set out this Government ' s intention for a 10 - year plan to change our NHS . our Health Secretary have already commit to put in the extra resource we desperately need for primary care , include £ 82 million of investment to recruit 1 , 000 newly qualified gps , and to finally reform the broken dental contract to get more dentist into the community that need they . unlike the previous Government , we will fight for our NHS . we will not allow primary care service to continue to be overwhelmed . we will not leave patient rot on waiting list , and we will not let our child be the sick in Europe . we will fix our NHS . we have fix it before , and we will fix it again . I call Martin Wrigley to make his maiden speech . I congratulate my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for North Devon ( Ian Roome ) on his maiden speech . I start by thank my long - suffer family , especially my child Zoe , Sam and Emily , who have be truly supportive throughout everything to get I to this place . let I express my thank to the amazing team in the constituency who work so hard to get I here as well . it be an honour to have be elect to represent my constituency of Newton Abbot , an area that I have call home for some 25 year . I tend to find that people in Westminster either ask , " where be Newton Abbot ? " or say that they know it well through personal experience . we be on the south coast of Devon between Exeter and Torbay , between the sea and the gateway to Dartmoor with the Rivers Teign and Exe . the constituency name reflect our large market town , but it could add Dawlish , Teignmouth , Kingsteignton , let alone the many village from Starcross to Kenton , Bishopsteignton , Abbotskerswell , Ogwell , Denbury , Ipplepen , Broadhempston and many more . I have be wonder what to tell hon . member about my constituency . perhaps the creative and innovative people , include Newton Abbot ' s own Ollie Watkins , the member of Muse , or Peter Cross , usually see at England rugby fixture with his resplendent cross of St George hat and coat . or the history of Brunel ' s engineering of the coastal railway , today ' s mining of ball clay or , previously , the granite use to rebuild London bridge , the British Museum and other , quarry from Dartmoor and transport via the Templer Way — a tramway itself create from granite — all ship via the port of Teignmouth . or the story of dawlish violet , Jane Austen ' s visit , Keats ' s poem or how Dawlish become the home of black swan . perhaps the protect shore of the Exe estuary and dawlish Warren , home to many thousand of wildfowl and wade bird each winter . suffice it to say , the area be steep in history , fame and natural beauty . member will find much more than Devon cream tea and scone — with the cream and jam the right way up , of course . grow up in a Royal Navy family , we move around an awful lot . move to Dawlish be a natural choice , but I suspect it be also my parent ' influence that cause I to set my sight on this place . in the 1950 , they meet in Downing Street when my mother work in Churchill ' s office . my father tell we story of race to the parking place outside no . 10 in his old MG . speak of previous politician , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Anne Marie Morris , and her dedication to the constituency . her maiden speech tell of the wave gently break over the train on the dawlish seawall . the 2014 storm , however , show we that the force of the sea and the increase storm due to climate change be both serious and urgent . since then , Network Rail have construct a new seawall , rebuild the station and more . however , it be the catastrophic cliff collapse near Teignmouth that cause the long interruption of rail service , cut London off from the south - west peninsula . we be still wait for fund to be confirm for that work . climate change be a real and present threat to we on the coast , and we can not stop it with just flood defence and mitigation . we must do everything we can to reduce the use of fossil fuel and carbon dioxide emission . turn to healthcare , Devon have both an age population and few hospital bed per head of population than the national average . local hospital be fall into disrepair and be often overlook in the model of care . it be during my first week in this place that I hear from the local NHS trust that it be cancel the plan new Teignmouth health and wellbeing centre that would have replace the crumble hospital . due to increase cost and a recent cap place on its capital budget , bizarrely because of revenue overspend , the project be cancel . the new centre be to have become the home to local GPs and local NHS service . I do write to my pen pal , the Secretary of State , but have yet to hear back . in the meantime , I be work with the GPs to help they secure a new home and avoid put primary care for 18 , 000 patient in jeopardy . teignmouth hospital be still under the threat of closure , despite housing many NHS and voluntary sector service . meeting recently with Volunteering in Health at the hospital with my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , we see how its model of wraparound care have be copy internationally and that Singapore be now roll it out as global good practice . as an engineer and a Liberal , I know that we do not need to accept broken system . we can fix they , and by empower people we can build a bright and well future . I will do everything I can in this place to fix system and help my constituent , and help to protect the beautiful constituency , the environment and its biodiversity as long as I be here . I congratulate the hon . member for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) on his excellent maiden speech . I be sure he will be a fierce advocate for the people of Newton Abbot and the surround area over the come year . I look forward to work with he . I be very glad to be able to speak in this debate , because primary care be an important issue that affect all our constituent . during the election campaign , it be absolutely the no . 1 issue that come up on the doorstep across Lichfield , Burntwood and the village in my constituency . we be effectively here to discuss the centralism and poor decision making that typify the last decade and a half of incompetence by the conservative party on primary care . there can be few more obvious example of that than the fate of Burntwood health and wellbeing centre in my constituency . the building be home to a gp surgery serve almost 5 , 000 resident in the town . the contract for the surgery expire in March last year , but no replacement facility be ready for that date . the surgery could not move , which mean it have to close . the building itself be still in use by the integrate care board and the practice be happy to seek an extension , but that be not allow by NHS England . as a result , more than one in eight people in the town have have to be redistribute to other surgery because a process in London do not allow organisation in Staffordshire to deliver the good solution for my constituent . it be centralist and wrong . it be wrong then and it be wrong now , and it need to change . even bad still be that the propose replacement facility , originally schedule for completion in October 2023 — last year — be nowhere near ready . we be expect planning permission sometime in early 2025 and who know when it will actually be complete . this be such an important issue for my constituent in Burntwood , as we all know the potential knock - on effect that delay in access primary care can cause . the staff at the remain surgery be do all they can to support the community , but at some point increase patient roll like this can not be mitigate . it be one example of the challenge people face in see a gp . it be not the only one in my constituency and very far from be the only one across the whole country . it can not be fix overnight ; 14 year of it go wrong will take long than 14 week to fix . however , I applaud the Health Secretary for go as far as he have so quickly : cut red tape to allow 1 , 000 new GPs to be take on and commission the Darzi review of the NHS so that this party , the one that create the NHS , can ensure that we build a health service that be fit for the 21st century . I thank the hon . gentleman for not use all his time . I call Tom Gordon to make his maiden speech . let I begin by congratulate my Liberal Democrat colleague on some fantastic maiden speech , which have give I a lot to live up to . while I be on the subject of thank people , let I confess that I commit a cardinal sin at my election count : I reel off my Oscars award - style speech recognise everyone who have play a part in the previous 30 year of my life , but importantly forget to acknowledge my agent — the bad thing that any political candidate or Member of Parliament could do . I have not yet live that down . still on the topic of thank - yous and acknowledgement , I want to thank my Tory predecessor , Andrew Jones , for his hard work as a value constituency MP , which many people mention throughout the election campaign , and for his work in secure bathing water status for the River Nidd . this may seem a little too obvious , but the two principal town in my constituency be Harrogate and Knaresborough . Knaresborough do not like come second , for a good reason : it be the old town , an ancient market town feature a fantastic castle and the Nidd gorge , with a view over the River Nidd . it have a strong sense of community , and I encourage anyone who have not hear of the Knaresborough bed race to google it after my speech — it be a truly unique event . Harrogate be a famous old spa town . it have be renowne for its healing water , which have draw people from all corner of the globe , include the russian aristocracy and — previously — its royal family . Agatha Christie turn up there after a nationwide manhunt . it be a place of intrigue , but in more recent year it have become a place of culture , a cultural gem in the north . we have the fantastic Harrogate international festival , whose annual calendar range from literature to art and everything in between . we also have RHS Garden Harlow Carr — we be a flower town , and have win many award at both regional and international bloom festival . we also have Harrogate Convention Centre . a little while ago , before I be bear , eurovision be host there . one of the most frequent suggestion that come up be that I should launch a campaign to get eurovision back . that rely on our get million of pound of investment into the convention centre , something for which I have already be campaign . this be probably a little - know fact for those on the Government Benches , but we will have something almost rival Eurovision next March , namely the liberal Democrat spring conference — and the Glee Club will be in town ! as well as the town of Harrogate and Knaresborough , my constituency contain a wide range of village , but what interest I be the people — it be the people who make our area so fantastic . it be that yorkshire grit , determination and resilience that really make our area shine . let I give the House a few bit and piece of potted history , feature some famous and some more infamous folk from my part of the world . there be Mother Shipton , Knaresborough ' s answer to Nostradamus , who be make something of a pariah and cast into a cave , and call a witch to boot . to this day , the cave be one of the big tourist attraction in the area . on the more infamous side , we play host to the childhood home of no friend of this place , Guy Fawkes ; the less say about he , probably , the well . we also have more modern and contemporary people , such as the Lionesses ' Rachel Daly , and Olly Alexander as well . one person who stick out in the history book be Blind Jack , who be say to have be the founder of modern road building . he build kilometre on kilometre , or mile and mile , of turnpike century ago , and rumour have it that North Yorkshire council might get around to repair they some time soon . as I have say , it be the people who make my constituency great . let I now reflect on the topic of today ' s debate . I think the reason health be so important to we be that in those moment of desperation , worry and anxiety when we reach out and go to that frontline of primary healthcare — when we see our GPs — we be truly human . look back at some of the more formative moment of my life and experience , my life have be change when I have go to a gp . it be apposite that I be give my maiden speech today , during Breast Cancer Awareness Month . People have be wear lot of fantastic bright pink outfit to highlight that cause . the reason I get involve in politic be that the day before I start my master ' s degree in public health , my mum be diagnose with breast cancer . fortunately , she have recover and be fine now , and I have even make she a Lib Dem councillor in Wakefield — she have not yet forgive I for that . when we be go through that experience , I drop down to do my degree over two year so that I could look after she and my little sister , who be just five at the time . we know that be able to access healthcare be the most important factor in get a good outcome . fortunately in our case , my mum be fine , but the complication of have go through lot of surgery and chemotherapy still live with she today . as someone who live with a chronic condition — early this year I be diagnose with ulcerative colitis — I know that get through the door to see a gp can be the big barrier to get a diagnosis , treatment and support . I would not be here without my constituent . it be an honour and a privilege to have be elect to represent the people of Harrogate and Knaresborough , and I shall do my good , whether it be on health , culture and tourism , or whatever wonderful fortune and opportunity await I . I congratulate the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) on his cultured and move speech — and on deliver it without note , which be always very impressive . I be pleased to have the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate . I come from a family that be rich with GPs — primary caregiver who be the bedrock of our NHS . my grandad , aunt and uncle be all gps , and my cousin be a qualified gp too . over the generation they have serve , time have get hard and pressure have grow . under successive conservative Governments , we see decade of under - investment and mismanagement , and a lack of long - term planning , which have leave primary care on its knee . indeed , during the election campaign we have to fight to save our NHS walk - in centre , which have become important for so many people in my constituency — I be glad to say that we succeed . however , as the Health Secretary say when he visit Lionwood medical practice in Norwich North , " the cavalry be come " ; in fact , it have arrive . we know that the task be monumental , but as the party that create the NHS , Labour know how to fix it . I welcome our 10 - year plan , which have primary care at its heart . it will make sure that we shift from hospital to community , and from sickness to prevention . because of the black hole in funding that we have be leave by the Conservatives , we know that money be tight , but we have already take action by invest £ 82 million to recruit 1 , 000 newly qualified gps . of course , primary care refer to dentistry too . my county of Norfolk have be allow to become a dental desert — or , as the Secretary of State have say , " the Sahara of dental desert " . — [ Official Report , 23 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 506 . ] a recent ONS dentistry report state that 99 . 7 % of new patient in East Anglia can not access NHS dental care , which be shocking and totally unacceptable . I note that many pregnant woman be unable to access the free NHS dentistry care to which they be entitle . in fact , brand - new datum from the British Dental Association and the Women ' s Institute show that nearly 1 . 5 million NHS dental appointment for pregnant woman and new mum have be lose since the start of the covid pandemic . I ask the Minister to focus on what we can do to improve woman ' s access to dental care , because dentistry be a feminist issue too . I welcome our plan to rescue NHS dentistry , and I will continue push with colleague across Norfolk — I can see the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) in the Chamber — for the dental school that we so desperately need . let I finish with the Health Secretary ' s own word : " the cavalry be come . " we will fix the NHS and make sure it be fit for purpose . for my constituent in Surrey Heath , access to primary care — whether GPs , dentist , pharmacy or optometrist — have increasingly become a postcode lottery . vast dentistry desert — maybe not of Saharan scale — have open up across Surrey Heath , with resident simply unable to find an NHS dentist with an open list for they or their family . when a list do open up , it almost immediately close again due to the overwhelming demand . today , family be be force to seek private provision for their dental care — if they be able to stretch their finance that far — or they simply forgo dental care altogether . during the recent election , I even meet a constituent who have resort to an amateur tooth extraction because of the lack of affordable dental treatment locally . the postcode lottery extend to GP service too , although the issue of access take on a slightly different form . Surrey Heath have some excellent and much - love GP practice that be work hard to put the experience of user first , but other have book system , triage mechanism and approach to communication that leave patient feel anxious and frustrated . I pay particular tribute to the surgery in Lightwater , a village in my constituency . resident regale I routinely with story about the fast , efficient and friendly telephone service it provide , the availability of on - the - day appointment and the generally high quality of the service . it be little wonder that resident from mile beyond Lightwater be so desperate to move their registration to that particular well - run surgery . some other surgery , however , be not so highly praise . they be criticise for their impersonal online booking system and inappropriately long waiting time for appointment , sometimes require patient to wait a month or so to see a gp . this be not just poor practice ; it have real - life implication for the health outcome of patient and for the economy , as resident take long to be see , long to be treat , long to recover , and long to get back to work than if they have be see early . online booking system risk create a digital barrier to entry for our most vulnerable resident . it can not be right that those require healthcare might be dissuade from seek it because of the complexity of approach their gp , or because they do not have , can not afford or can not operate the technology require to book an appointment . our local pharmacy , too , be under huge strain , and I commend the incredible local independent pharmacy who look after community across Surrey Heath so well . I be incredibly pleased that we be have this debate today , not only to talk about the challenge of primary healthcare but to highlight some of the great practice that we can see within our community . we need to support our local pharmacy , which deliver so much care and support , and we need , as the liberal Democrat manifesto propose , to enshrine the commitment that patient can see a gp within seven day — a commitment underpin by an associated commitment to train and recruit thousand of GPs every year . the Darzi review have effectively shine a spotlight on the key issue that gps and all in the healthcare profession have experience over the past 14 year . it rightly highlight the detrimental impact of austerity and the increase pressure that the pandemic put on an already stress service . it also draw attention to the ongoing excellent work that be be do by NHS staff across the country in spite of , rather than because of , the facility , system and process that be not fit for purpose and must now undergo intelligent reform . primary care be an essential part of our health system . it be where prevention meet treatment , and GPs can effectively undertake secondary prevention to keep people well for long — for example , people with chronic condition such as diabete and hypertension . as a public health consultant , I want to fight for our GPs and make sure that they have the resource they need , and I want to highlight three thing today . I often speak to the Royal College of General Practitioners , and we be in sync on these three thing . the first be the long - term workforce plan . it be due for review next year . it have be underfunde in previous time , and we have to look at the modelling that be in the workforce plan now . if we be move from a hospital model to a community model , we have to look at the rate of increase that we expect in our GP service . it currently stand at 4 % for GPs and 49 % for hospital consultant . this be in no way to denigrate my colleague who be hospital consultant — they be incredibly important — but we need to review this workforce plan . I know that the Public Accounts Committee be look at this issue prior to the election . as a new member of the Health and Social Care Committee , I will encourage the continuation of that work . secondly , we speak early about a mixed model of GP provision and how that will work . in my constituency , the Worthing integrate care centre be due to open very soon . it be part of a neighbourhood model , where GPs will work with other healthcare professional to provide a holistic wraparound service . as have be demonstrate in this Chamber today , there be already partner practice that be work effectively . this be about the interaction between neighbourhood hub and those partner practice . it be pragmatic politic to get those to work , and work well , for our GP colleague . finally , we have talk about the national retention strategy . GPs be currently leave in their drove , and even though many people be come forward as gp trainee , it have be say in this Chamber that we must ensure that we retain our GP colleague . this issue be particularly acute in deprive area . as a public health consultant , I know that health inequality be one of the major issue in this country . in order to address that , and to ensure that prevention be writ large for those area of health inequality , we must make sure that we be retain our GP colleague in those area . access to NHS dentistry be deeply affect my constituent in Stratford - on - Avon , with many community face what can only be describe as dental desert . we have see dentist leave NHS service in recent year , leave resident with limited option . in some case , my constituent be wait month for an appointment , be force to travel significant distance to see an NHS dentist or , bad , be tell that they must pay privately or go without . some have resort to emergency care , and other have even attempt DIY intervention . the lack of access to NHS dental appointment can have serious long - term health implication . dentist can detect condition such as oral cancer , diabete and osteoporosis during routine appointment . we have hear that across the country , 4 . 4 million child have not see an NHS dentist in the past year , which be shameful . the situation be worsen in my area , with more NHS dentist opt out of the system because the current dental contract be unsustainable . it be not a surprise that patient be be remove from NHS list , exacerbate the crisis . recent research by Healthwatch , base on a series of national poll , show that disabled people and those with long - term health condition be more likely to avoid go to the dentist because of the cost . the Liberal Democrats ' dental rescue package propose invest in additional dental appointment , reform the broken NHS dental contract and ensure that everyone in need of urgent or emergency care can access an NHS dentist in their locality . we should give our constituent the right to register with their local NHS dentist . I therefore urge the Government to act now before the crisis deepen even far . the fundamental promise of our NHS be that it be there for all of we whenever we need it , no matter how much we earn , where we live , who we be or what part of the health system we need to access . unfortunately , after 14 year of conservative government , that promise have be break . it be particularly disheartening not to hear any contrition or reflection from the shadow Minister . despite the hard work of NHS staff , waiting list be at record high and patient satisfaction be at record low . the NHS be near break point . we all know this go into the election , as we hear it from our constituent — I certainly hear it from mine in Uxbridge and South Ruislip . even so , the finding of the Darzi review be still incredibly shocking . primary care , as Liberal Democrat Members have say , be the front door to our NHS , but that front door be increasingly be slam shut in the face of our constituent , and the effect be be feel . fifty year of progress on cardiovascular disease be in reverse , progress on cancer outcome have stall , and cancer survival rate in the UK be fall behind comparable country . there be a lot to do , and it will take time to do it , but I be reassure by the Minister ' s comment that this Government be take the matter incredibly seriously . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s focus on the three critical shift need to modernise our health service , and particularly primary care : from analogue to digital , from hospital to community , and from sickness to prevention . these shift will not only improve value for money in our health service but will ensure that everyone in our community live a long , healthy life . we have hear today of the importance of GPs , particularly family GPs . GPs be see more patient than ever before , yet the number of qualified GPs relative to the population be fall . this strain will only be exacerbate as population grow and age . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to GP recruitment , with £ 82 million be invest in 1 , 000 more gps . the shadow Minister speak about the capital investment pressure on the Government , and we certainly want to see capital investment in hospital — include Hillingdon hospital in my constituency — but primary care capital investment be also need to unleash potential capacity . we have hear from Liberal Democrat Members , as well as member on the Government Benches , about dental desert and the need to improve access to dentistry . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to engage with the British Dental Association . I know one of the Secretary of State ' s first meeting be with BDA , and I look forward to hear the outcome of those discussion . lastly , on community pharmacy , I meet representative of local and national pharmacy group in my first few week as an MP . pharmacy be incredibly well place to take the pressure off GP service . pharmacist be train , professional and ready to go . I welcome the Government ' s plan to create community pharmacist prescribing service to utilise the skill of pharmacist . I will end as I start : there be a lot to do to rebuild and reform our NHS , so that it be there when we all need it . we have do it before and we must do it again . I be in general agreement with other about the state of the NHS . the NHS be a liberal idea , deliver by the Labour party , then break by the Conservatives . the attendance among Conservative member at today ' s debate show just how much interest they have in try to fix it . the Liberal Democrats will act as a responsible , constructive opposition and work with the Government to fix the NHS ' s many problem . on that point , will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not . solve the crisis in access to primary care matter not just to patient face traumatic situation , but to our GP surgery , which be strive to do their good under the most difficult of circumstance . our hard - work GPs dedicate year to training and work hard at what they do because they be passionate about be there for their patient . for too long they have be let down , and it be our job now to give they the mean to continue do their remarkable job . we know the difficulty . too often , appointment be not available , and patient and staff experience frustration and conflict priority when attempt to access service . for patient , that often mean resort to dialling 111 , or even 999 , and attend a & E when issue escalate . that put further pressure on our already overstretch NHS emergency facility , which too often have to deal with issue that could have be fix by preventive primary care if patient could have access it in a timely way . GPs in Sutton and Cheam tell I that request for appointment be triaged because of the level of demand . decision have to be make to prioritise patient with increasingly complex need , often with very little information available . unsurprisingly , that be affect GPs ' mental health and make it increasingly difficult to retain experienced staff , far erode the ability of practice to keep up with demand . the ask from GPs in my constituency be simple : the Minister must act quickly to increase their budget , and offer certainty to allow they to plan ahead financially after a sustained period of real term cut in funding . that will allow they to hire and retain more staff at competitive wage during this cost of living crisis , low the collective workload and treat more patient more effectively . it be not enough to simply offer more training place , or incentive to train , if surgery can not employ the GPs who be already qualified and available . that be a particular problem in my constituency . if the nhs can not compete with the private sector on pay , or with overseas government , who attract our doctor with improved condition , a low workload and possibly even well weather condition — legend have it that there be place that have even more sunshine than Bournemouth — then it can not hope to retain GPs . we must make it easy for foreign student who have study and qualified in the UK to get the right to remain after their course , should they wish to do so . as the new Government search for way to boost growth , I say that it be here in front of they . there be no well investment in our future growth than good - quality primary healthcare , keep patient healthy , able to provide for themselves and their family , and live healthy and fulfilling life . I begin by reflect on the version of the NHS ' s foundation set out by the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) . I be unfamiliar with that , so I thank he for that history lesson . the fate of our GP service be feel nowhere more keenly than in Thurrock , where we have the high ratio of patient to gps in the country . at a coffee afternoon a few week ago in Aveley , in my constituency , where the local medical practice have perhaps the high patient load of the entire area , we discuss some of the issue face the community , as well as the solution . it be a microcosm of this debate . People think they deserve to be able to see a gp , but my constituent , particularly those in Aveley , show a bit of common sense about what they could expect after 14 year of a Conservative Government run their healthcare service into the ground . they know that they do not always need to see a gp . they know that sometimes a face - to - face appointment be not necessary . however , they also want to know that the healthcare they need be there when they need it . GPs at the meeting have a similar reflection — they want to be able to spend the time that they have with their patient , not form filling , not run around bureaucracy , and not refer back to secondary provider . they want to spend their time deliver the good medical care possible . a great example of community healthcare be provide by Orsett hospital , our local community hospital . what it do it do very well , provide blood test , dialysis and so on . People can get the care they need on the doorstep . however , the hospital have be under threat of closure for as long as I can remember . I be bear there , and since then its service have be take away one by one . we have a healthy scepticism in Thurrock for neighbourhood health hub . we have be promise they for a number of year , but , thank to a combination of Conservative Government incompetence and conservative council incompetence locally , we no long have the money to provide they . in my constituency , out of the three healthcare hub that we have be promise , all we have so far be a hole in the ground in Tilbury , one of our most economically deprive area . I say early that some solution also come out of that discussion . if we be to turn around primary healthcare , we need buy - in from our population . People need to know what service be available to they . they need to be in charge of their healthcare , include their preventive healthcare . they need to know what be come up on the horizon for they and how they can take step to change outcome for themselves . I conclude by welcome this Labour Government ' s approach to turn around the NHS towards a preventive and community model . I be so pleased that we be have this very important debate this afternoon . like my hon . friend the Member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) , I wish to highlight the issue face dentistry . Eastleigh be face an acute NHS dental crisis , with many of my constituent unable to access basic dental care . by the end of 2023 , more than 48 % of child in Hampshire have not be see by an NHS dentist in the previous two year . accord to the NHS website , only a third of dentist in my constituency be take on new NHS patient . I have hear from resident who be desperately try to find an NHS dentist , but , after call surgery after surgery , they can not find one take on new NHS patient . some 62 % of adult in Hampshire have not be see by an NHS dentist in the past two year . that leave they with very limited choice : go without any treatment at all , try to find the money for private treatment , or resort to DIY dentistry . one resident tell I that their NHS dental appointment be cancel at very short notice , with no alternative offer , because their highly skilled dentist from Poland leave after Brexit and now there be no NHS dentist available at his local practice . another constituent tell I how his dental practice be struggle to keep appointment , and now have only one NHS dentist available , and that be on Saturdays only . patient be be ask to sign form agree to private treatment at NHS price , without the protection that they would usually receive under NHS care . the previous Government push NHS dentistry to the brink of collapse . I hope the new Government will reverse that trend by increase investment in dentistry , use unspent fund to increase the number of NHS dental appointment and remove vat on child ' s toothbrush and toothpaste to make oral health more affordable . as a local NHS dentist tell I , the dental contract be not fit for purpose . his colleague be leave the NHS in drove . my constituent in Eastleigh would benefit from an emergency rescue plan for NHS dentistry . proper investment to tackle this crisis would offer more NHS dental appointment and deliver free check - up for child . this be the kind of direct action that we need to prevent more child from suffer and to ensure that everyone , regardless of their income , can access high quality dental care . may I congratulate hon . member on their wonderful maiden speech ? the challenge face primary care service in our country be set out in damn detail in Lord Darzi ' s report after 14 year of conservative mismanagement . I thank the Secretary of State for bring that report so quickly to the House and get on with the job of make our NHS fit for the future . from knock on door in Gloucester , I know that access to a gp and get an NHS dental appointment remain two of the big challenge face my constituent . I recently hold a cross - party meeting with councillor in Tuffley and Grange ward in my constituency about the challenge that resident be face in get a GP appointment . I know that we have issue with access dentist in particular , with more than 2 , 500 patient per dentist . that be despite the fact that frontline worker in our NHS be work hard than ever . retention in our workforce be a key issue , so will the Government look at family - friendly policy to ensure that we retain as many frontline key worker as possible ? I be surprised to hear the shadow Minister speak about prevention , because during 14 year of conservative health policy they seem only to have prevent my constituent from get access to the healthcare they need . prevention be important to this Government ' s strategy for health ; it be well for patient and it get they easy access to the care they need and well health outcome . it be also well for the taxpayer and far cheap than go to the hospital when it be too late . I be pleased to see the Government be already take action — but we have to get this right . there be a principle in the NHS of get it right the first time , and I be pleased to see and hear that the Secretary of State and his team be take time to listen to our health service in put forward our 10 - year plan to get the NHS back on its foot and fit for the future . our NHS may have be break by the Conservatives , but it be not beat . it be always in debt to the frontline staff , and we all owe they a personal debt of gratitude . I welcome the plan to tackle red tape in primary care and ensure that we focus on patient care and deliver the good care . I welcome the work towards recruit 1 , 000 newly qualified gps . we be bring back the family doctor and we be ring in 700 , 000 more urgent dentist appointment . we will fix the mess that we inherit from the conservative party , but it be important to my constituent that we get it right the first time . the Government be get on with the job of do that . I will cut to the chase . the state of NHS primary healthcare in my constituency be depressing . I would like the Minister ' s help with three local issue : first , with NHS dental care provision in the light of the Hathaway dental practice ' s close its door to NHS patient on 1 November ; secondly , the stalling of a propose medical centre in Calne for more than four year due to delay by the ICB ; and thirdly , the decision to refuse a licence for a new pharmacy in Corsham . however , give the shortage of time , I will concentrate on the urgent matter of the closure of a dentist ' s surgery . as everyone in the Chamber be aware , dental service be break . People be pull out their own tooth and then be rush to the NHS to deal with a problem that be everywhere . however , integrate care board across the country be underspend million on dentistry . Chippenham come under the Bath and North East Somerset , Swindon and Wiltshire ICB , and accord to a freedom of information request to the British Dental Association , that ICB dental underspend amount to £ 4 . 2 million . I mention that because there be several hon . member here with the same ICB . my constituent be horrified . we be about to lose yet another NHS dental practice on 1 November , in part due to recruitment challenge but mostly because of the dental contract system . in my first week as an elect member for Chippenham , I attend a briefing on preventive healthcare with the Secretary of State and I feel reassure that the issue be be look at . however , three month have pass and I have see nothing concrete from the Government about a reform of the contract or even a propose consultation timeline . I implore Labour ' s health team to urgently review the NHS dental contract system and stop dental healthcare be a privilege . the ICB repeatedly say it will come back to I and the practice owner tell I they can not get this to work . truthfully , I be at a loss . the Government , along with the Care Quality Commission and my local ICB , say they be do something , but nothing seem to happen . I implore the Government to work with Liberal Democrat Members , who want the good for our NHS . we agree that a more preventive approach be need . so much be break and we need to put it right together now , before it be too late . first , I must declare , as the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , remind I last week , that I be a surgeon . I have , therefore , an interest in this matter , but so do we all . the last Government should be truly ashamed of themselves . I see but one remain member — a colleague of mine — sit on the Conservative Benches . general practice have be badly neglect . the public could see that . surely the Government must have know it . certainly patient could see it , give their scramble on the phone at 8 o ' clock , hope not to be at the end of the queue for one of the very few appointment with one of the very few doctor . during my career , I have see the number of hospital doctor and consultant increase many time , but we have see very little increase in GP number , and now we live with the consequence : too many exhausted gps , many leave the profession altogether or retire much too soon , and now the spectre of a two - tier gp system , as private GP service expand rapidly all over the place . we can , and will , do well than this . we already be do well , with plan to recruit many qualified GPs without job into practice without doctor . today , we must look after our GPs as never before . we will move much of our care out of our hospital and into the community , but it be on GPs that we will depend to achieve that . GP service will expand to provide community investigation , facility , specialist and surgical service , and much more , as we rightly adopt the new Government ' s agenda of move care out of hospital . we must ensure that GPs have the very good it and technology . we must connect the GP IT with the hospital it , so that I can see the same record as the GP ; the nonsense of typed letter and fax machine should end completely . I be , however , optimistic . scientific advance continue to astonish we . we know what we have to do , and we have the determination to do it . doctor and patient will support this . let we get to work . general practice be the good of the NHS , and we must support it . in my constituency of West Dorset , as across the country , community pharmacy be be ask to deliver more and more primary care service , increasingly act as an alternative to GP surgery . they be deliver vital healthcare service such as health consultation and vaccination ; however , the funding model for community pharmacy be outdated and insufficient , and do not reflect the expand role that they now play in our healthcare system . Community Pharmacy England report that one sixth of pharmacy could close within a year , and the National Pharmacy Association estimate that the average pharmacy will lose £ 43 , 000 this year . this be be play out writ large in my constituency . Lyme Regis have recently lose its last remain high street pharmacy . our Beaminster and Sherborne pharmacy be report six - figure annual loss due to the unsustainability of the funding framework — a funding model that , as the Pharmaceutical Services Negotiating Committee suggest , do not account for the high operating cost in rural area , as well as wild fluctuation in medicine price that can result in pharmacy lose money on every prescription issue of certain drug . community pharmacy also have to operate within a system whereby they get compensate only for consultation that lead to prescription be issue . that lead to a perverse focus on patient where a medicalise outcome be most likely . I urge the Government to re - evaluate the funding model for community pharmacy . we need a system that recognise and reward the broad role that pharmacy now play , particularly in rural area . pharmacy be deliver critical health service , yet they be be financially penalise because the funding system be still base on an outdated model . if we continue on this path , we risk lose these vital community asset . pharmacy in rural place such as West Dorset can not survive on the current funding framework . they be a lifeline for many of my constituent , and without immediate action we could see further closure , which would leave vulnerable population without access to vital healthcare service . at 10 year below the average for England , life expectancy in my constituency be the low in the country for man and woman . Lord Darzi ' s recent report point out that people in the most deprived area of England be twice as likely to wait more than a year for non - urgent treatment . those problem be compound by poor - quality housing , low income and insecure employment , which be particularly pronounce in my constituency . that be evident in the casework that my constituency office receive . one man , whose son get in touch with I recently , have be wait year for a simple hernia operation , and it have impact on his mental health . it have lead to the son fear that his father could take his own life . physical health inequality contribute to poor mental health and the crisis surround it . Chris Whitty ' s 2021 report on health in coastal community detail the alarming rate of diagnose severe mental illness in my home town of Blackpool . there be over 500 hospital admission for intentional self - harm in 2018 - 19 , suicide rate among man be the second high in the country , and 3 , 000 people have a severe mental illness . I recently have the opportunity to meet staff and patient at the Harbour in Blackpool , a modern mental health hospital with fantastic facility . however , the 154 - bed facility be hugely oversubscribed , and patient be routinely send hundred of mile away to receive hospital treatment , put undue pressure and stress on their family . the lack of mental health bed have a knock - on effect on Blackpool Victoria hospital , where the 60 - person A & E facility have hold up to 188 patient — wait , at one time , 50 hour to be see . those wait time have be normalise , but they can mean the difference between life and death . the number of hospital admission for child with mental health problem in my constituency be around 60 % high than the national average . I urge the Minister and the Secretary of State to consider the model of mental health support champion by charity in my constituency such as Counselling in the Community , an award - win mental health charity lead by its incredible founder and chief executive officer Stuart Hutton - Brown . it use the skill of trainee counsellor , give they invaluable career experience while act as a lifeline for its service user . empower such charity to expand their work , rather than rely on the private sector to plug the gap in the NHS , be a great model that will enable we to put money back into the community rather than into the pocket of private provider , and offer well value for money . those problem be distil in Blackpool . I be encourage by the Government ' s recognition of the challenge — I know that the Minister ' s Department be prepared to face up to they — but sadly , in Blackpool , they be all too apparent . the ongoing crisis in GP access be as acute in my constituency as elsewhere . that be not simply because there be more patient , but because today ' s patient have great health challenge and need to see their gp more frequently . that be why simple comparison with GP ratio from the past do not work . we need a health service capable of meeting today ' s need , not those of 20 year ago . in Horsham , it have become routine for surgery to fill all available appointment within minute of opening . relatively junior staff be oblige to spend the rest of their time say no to frustrated , anxious and — not infrequently — angry patient . the danger be that we might enter a spiral of decline whereby demoralise staff leave , pile more pressure on to those who remain and scare off replacement before they have ever have a chance to settle . we must get working condition right , and that can not be achieve in a state of permanent understaffing . we must also get more from the service that we already have . unleash market force on the NHS , and set pharmacy , GPs and hospital against each other , be a mistake . effectively , they be in commercial competition to provide more of the treatment that pay well and less of those that do not . only integrated care board be in a position to take a holistic view of patient provision , but that be not really happen yet . there be any number of alarming statistic relate to our health service , but I will conclude on one that be a bit more positive . as mention by one of my colleague early , study by the University of Cambridge and other suggest that where patient be see by the same gp over 15 year , the average mortality rate decline by 25 % . that be a remarkable level of improvement , more than could be expect from almost any other intervention . let we give GPs the space to do their job properly , and let we support this motion . I want to speak about some of the challenge I experience when I be out in my constituency . whether before the election or since , whether I be out in Throckley in the western reach of Newcastle or in Otterburn , Bellingham or Wark in the Tyne valley , the inability to get a decent gp appointment be continuously raise with I as one of my constituent ' great frustration , and they appreciate the sheer scale of the task that this Government have inherit . one of the thing I want to gently ask of the health team on the Front Bench be that when we look at build the community health service that we so desperately need , we consider that our rural community in particular have suffer from health service be hollow out for 14 year . if people be force to go on public transport and it take hour to get between small town and village , the barrier to a GP appointment become all the big . that be communicate to I throughout the election in visit to ward that I do not think Labour canvasser have knock in before . many resident of Hexham raise it as one of the primary reason for switch to the Labour party , and it be why I be stand here as Hexham ' s first ever Labour MP . five out of the seven dentist in my constituency be not accept new patient . that crisis be particularly acute in the western part of Newcastle , in Callerton and Throckley — it have be raise with I multiple time on the doorstep — and the devastating impact of that crisis on family and on people ' s mental health , as well as their physical health , have be illustrate by many of the contribution from across the House . the absolute disgrace of people get visibly emotional when talk about their struggle to secure a dentist ' s appointment in 21st - century Britain be one of the many badge of shame that the conservative party should wear as it consider its future . I note the empty space on the Conservative Benches . ultimately , I want to pay tribute to the gps and frontline staff who work tirelessly to deliver healthcare across my constituency and far afield , but also to emphasise that the challenge face the NHS have never be great , particularly in rural area . the NHS have be bring to its knee by 14 year of mismanagement and complacency , and we now need to rise to the challenge . I be confident that this health team and this Government will do so . we know that primary care have be struggle — struggle to meet target , keep up with demand and help the population remain healthy . those difficulty be particularly acute in rural area such as Glastonbury and Somerton , where primary care face specific issue such as recruitment , retention , and access to service . GPs serve a crucial and multifaceted role in healthcare , but they be all too often inaccessible in rural area . last year in Somerset , 21 % of GP appointment take more than two week from booking to appointment — high than the average wait in England — and 7 % of appointment take well over a month . GPs play a crucial role in serve people ' s mental health , as well as their physical health . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Select Committee ' s report on rural mental health conclude that NHS mental health service be not fairly accessible for rural community . a one - size - fit - all approach do not fit everyone ; appropriate service should be develop to serve rural community . to help mend the mess leave by the Conservatives , the Lib Dems want to give everyone the right to see a gp within seven day , or within 24 hour if urgent , with 8 , 000 more gps to deliver on that commitment . rural community also suffer from poor access to public transport , which make it more difficult to access service , and poor rural broadband , which make it hard to access online service . it be clear that cross - departmental work be need to address the challenge rural people face in access mental health support . those hurdle must be factor into the national strategy that be focus on address mental health . we must look at how pharmacist can ease the pressure on GP service , but they too need urgent support . between April 2015 and June 2024 , there be a net loss of 1 , 200 community pharmacy — 1 , 402 closure and only 179 opening . the rate of pharmacy closure in Glastonbury and Somerton be , shockingly , near double the national average . community pharmacy provide an essential high - street service in rural market town , but many have now simply go . the Liberal Democrats believe that we need a clear , more sustainable long - term funding model for pharmacy , and we must build on the Pharmacy First approach to give patient more accessible routine service and ease the pressure on our GPs . the new Government have speak out about our crumble public service , but now be the time to act . my constituent can not wait . countless time on the doorstep during the general election campaign I discuss primary care with people in North Norfolk , and the damn legacy of the last Conservative Government mean that almost everyone in my area have their own story . story of people who be wait four week to see their gp about anything non - urgent ; of people whose oral health have decline so much that they be no long able to smile ; of people who be worried for the supply of vital medicine . the primary care crisis be acutely feel in North Norfolk , and I be glad that it be the Liberal Democrats who will be push this government to bring forward solution . resident in Blakeney be set to lose their rural branch surgery at the start of next month despite overwhelming effort to save it . many people who live in Blakeney rely on that surgery and have base their independent living plan around it . surgery be key community asset and people will genuinely suffer if they be lose . it be why I have be proud to support our call for a small surgery fund , to give financial stability to surgery like that in Blakeney . I hope that today the Minister can tell we whether the Government would support that . the dentistry crisis be another of the big issue for North Norfolk . the hon . member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) remind we that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have describe Norfolk as the Sahara of dental desert . I have be pleased with the progress we be make , work with the integrate care board in the month since my election , safeguard service in Holt and Wells , and push forward the case for a new dentistry school at the University of East Anglia . I have enjoy work with my colleague the hon . member for Norwich North on that . this issue matter to people like my constituent Alan . he receive no state support despite his wife be unable to work , and when they need urgent dental treatment he be force to dip into his small saving . it can not be right that when someone pay in to the system all his life , it simply be not there when he need it . these problem be deeply - rooted . mental health service do not have the network to really reach people in rural area . our small surgery be vital because of our lack of public transport infrastructure , our gps struggle to find new partner because of ballooning property price , and our pharmacy and hospital can not attract the specialist they need because there be not the housing . the solution to these problem in primary care require an holistic approach , so I hope that the Government be take step to stop these problem be siloe . all Liberal Democrat mp be champion for our leave - behind local health service . I urge the House to support the motion and show that we mean business about bring our primary care service , like those in North Norfolk , back from the brink . every member who have speak , from whichever side of the House , have speak eloquently about their constituent ' difficulty access primary care . as the Lib Dem mental health spokesperson , I want to focus on some potential initiative that will help solve those problem . there be a really good initiative in Winchester that recognise the many socioeconomic problem that contribute to poor mental health . the poor 20 % of people be twice as likely as people on an average salary to experience mental health issue . so in that fantastic initiative , local NHS mental health service be work with Winchester Citizens Advice to help people with mental health issue deal with trouble like debt , monetary issue and housing issue . it be save a huge amount of NHS resource . analysis show that for every £ 1 spend on the initiative avoid about £ 40 . 06 in cost , and people be less likely to have to engage with mental health service again . I would be really keen for the mental health team , if they be willing to do so , to meet I and the team in Winchester that have come up with this initiative , because it really could be roll out over the rest of the country . when we discuss community mental health , we often talk about community mental health hub , for which the Liberal Democrats have be call for a long time , so that we can proactively engage with people at risk of mental health issue . we know what those demographic be . we target physical health screening at the demographic that be likely to suffer from those disease , and it be the same with mental health . we know that military veteran and their family , woman one year after give birth , the LGBT + community and other demographic be at a high risk of experience mental health issue , and we could be engage with these people much more proactively through community mental health hub to ensure that they do not end up need to access primary healthcare . finally , although this relate to secondary care , we must acknowledge the long waiting list for those who go to their gp and be refer for mental health treatment , because they be huge and people can wait for month or for over a year . in that time , people can end up go to A & E , which take a lot of time and resource , and cost the taxpayer a lot of money . GPs in Winchester tell I that they spend a huge amount of their time deal with people already on waiting list for referral who have come back again because they need help in the meantime , so that would really help free up primary care . I thank everyone who have contribute to the debate , and there have be a lot of excellent speech . in my first contribution in this House , in the debate on Lord Darzi ' s investigation last week , I raise the challenge of deliver primary care under a funding model that have fail to take account of growth in Cambridgeshire . I be go to reiterate that , and I will take every opportunity to reiterate it , because it be a gross injustice in Cambridgeshire , and other member have note it in their own area of growth . as well as take action on the unfair funding model , I would urge the Government to provide mechanism to pump - prime those area of growth , so that new service can be commission ahead of time to deliver those service as people move in , much as we see with other service such as school . my hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( John Milne ) mention a Cambridge University study show the benefit for patient of continuity of care . I think this will be a real focus of the new Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , and it should be bring forward by the Government to ensure well outcome for patient . the study also show that , when patient see the same doctor , they do not need to see that doctor as frequently over the course of their treatment , so it be a win - win . we be see benefit not just for patient , but for NHS service and ultimately benefit for we all . again , the Cambridge study show that those benefit be feel most for old patient , which be why the Lib Dems have be campaign for everyone over the age of 70 to have access to a name GP . to get that continuity of care , I really urge the Government to set an ambitious target , as the Lib Dems have do , to drive forward the strategy of get continuity of care , improve outcome for patient and improve outcome and productivity for the NHS . the NHS dental contract be so flawed that it punish dentist for overperforming , so they can not meet patient demand even if they be ready and willing to do so . during the election campaign in my constituency , I be strike by how many dentist contact I to tell I that the system be break . one dentist take I for a coffee in Dorking , and she tell I that she have quit as an NHS dentist because the sum simply do not add up . it be cost she more to treat NHS patient than she be receive under the NHS contract . that be why so many dentist be leave the NHS contract . as we have hear from so many hon . member , the consequence for child in particular be devastating , because they end up at A & E . just last week , a constituent contact I to tell I that they have be unable to afford private dental care for broken tooth , so they have access a cheap teledentistry company . the result be a botched job , with they have permanent ligament and bone damage . this crisis will end only when we reverse the previous Government ' s cut to dental care , because everyone should be able to access affordable high - quality dental care . the Liberal Democrats have a plan to fix our dental desert , and I urge member to support the motion . in my constituency , the propose GP health hub on Reform Road have be cancel . the land that be need be own by the local council , of which I be a member , as be declare in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and the council be ready to sell it . however , after a long wait , Frimley integrate care board scrap its plan because of rise cost and interest rate . that leave a significant gap in our healthcare infrastructure . with thousand of new home be plan and build , we need GP facility to match , but with the ICB pull out , it be Maidenhead resident who will suffer . resident in Binfield in my constituency have no well luck get a gp appointment , with local GP surgery say , " Don ' t bother try to ring at 8 am , you will not get an appointment . Don ' t even try . " St Mark ' s hospital in my constituency be a cornerstone of our local community , and 25 year ago it be the local Liberal Democrats who battle to bring the urgent care centre to St Mark ' s in Maidenhead . however , at the beginning of the pandemic the walk - in centre be close on what we be tell be a temporary basis . to date it be yet to reopen , and no matter how much we have try , we have be tell that the system be good enough without it . I be a local lad from my constituency , and when I be at primary school I fall over and hurt myself , and my mum hobble I to St Mark ' s . within an hour , they have do an x - ray , put I in a cast and send I on my way home on crutch . compare that with the situation now , with resident tell I time and again that they struggle to get the care that they need when they need it . Grandchildren who have have a bang on the head turn up at St Mark ' s to be tell to go to Wexham Park in Slough , where they have a 15 - hour wait in A & E . child cut a finger open , and instead of be able to take a five - minute trip up the road , they have to endure a 60 - minute rush - hour drive to Slough . Walk - in urgent care centre be beneficial for our local community because they allow we to take the pressure off A & E and the major hospital and provide that care locally . it be not a difficult concept . allow people to get the care they need , see their gps or pharmacist , and use the walk - in centre at St Mark ' s will mean few people in accident and emergency , save hospital admission , free up bed for those who need they and , importantly , save the NHS money . the Liberal Democrats and our hard - work local champion will always be there for the NHS and champion primary care . we be committed to reverse the decline in GP number and ensure that all our community have access to the primary care they need when they need it . the challenge be significant , but they be not insurmountable , and with the right policy and funding , we can turn the tide on this and get people the care they need . I feel as if we be play a game of top Trumps with who have the bad dental service , but service in South Devon have be so badly neglect by the Conservative Government that we live in one of the bad dental desert in the UK . nhs dentist in Totnes , Dartmouth , Brixham , Paignton and South Brent have close , leave thousand of my constituent , many suffer severe dental pain , with no choice but to pay extortionate private dentist for help . one of my constituent say : " my daughter be 18 , a student at college , and I be on ESA . we lose our NHS dentist 2 year ago in Totnes . we take the decision to go on a basic payment plan that give we one check - up and hygienist visit as I have gum disease . we can ' t really afford it . on a visit to the dentist today we be hit with a £ 160 bill for a small filling that my daughter will need . I have to pay £ 80 upfront . this be our food money for the next 2 week go , and will be the same again when she return for her appointment in October . we will have to use the food bank to eat this month . " another tell I she have a regular infection in her wisdom tooth that require constant antibiotic treatment , and she have be tell that it will cost £ 5 , 000 to remove they , or she will have to wait two more year for NHS treatment . the state of dentistry in South Devon be absolutely shocking . there be currently no dentist take on new NHS patient — not one — in a constituency of more than 300 square mile . it be shameful that there be not more conservative member on the Benches beside I to hear this . People in Devon and Cornwall be wait 1 , 441 day on average just to register with a dentist . that be four year . the new Government have talk about the benefit and importance of preventive healthcare , and nowhere be that more clear than in dentistry . it be not just about fill cavity and give someone a nice smile . we know there be link between gum disease and cancer . a poor oral microbiome can increase the risk of stomach and colorectal cancer . we also know that visit to the dentist as a child increase the chance of a lifetime of good oral hygiene . liberal Democrat research have show that in the past five year , more than 100 , 000 child have be admit to hospital with tooth decay . that be absolutely not what our hospital need after 14 year of neglect from the Conservatives and with a system that be completely overwhelmed . the Government must immediately renegotiate the NHS dental contract . have the Minister consider increase the unit of dental activity to stabilise dental practice immediately , before more of they go under ? the Government must guarantee appointment for all those who need a dental check before commence cancer treatment or chemotherapy , and they must support preventive dental healthcare . preventive care will always be less costly than the extensive treatment require later in life if people do not get into good habit at a young age . before I make some brief comment about dentistry , I must say that some Government Members seem genuinely confused about our claim that the Liberals have anything to do with the founding of the NHS . I urge they to google the Beveridge report . my grandfather be a dentist , so as a child I be privileged enough to have access to dental care as and when I need it , although when I be eight I do fall down the stair at his surgery and break my arm while he be do my dad ' s filling , so possibly his health and safety be not as good as his dentistry . many child nowadays do not have the same access to dentistry as I do as a child . in the past year in Somerset , the percentage of child see by a dentist be just 42 % , when the english average be more than 55 % . the percentage of adult see in the past two year be still only 32 % . the Darzi review reveal that only about 30 % to 40 % of NHS dental practice be accept new child and adult registration . that be leave many with no option but to go private . my constituency of Frome and East Somerset be also consider a dental desert . it be predominantly rural , which mean that access to service be even more limited . the lack of public transport mean that access dental service be difficult already , and with practice not take on new patient , they be push even far afield . I have an email from two constituent from Frome early this month . they have be unable to see an NHS dentist for four year due to a lack of availability for new patient . they say in their email that " it not only affect our oral health , but contribute to broad health issue that can arise from neglect dental care " , and they be anxious about potential long - term impact . get a dentist appointment should never be as hard as it be now , and I urge support for our motion to help reduce dental desert and rescue NHS dentistry from disaster . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) on introduce this debate . I echo her call on the Government to boost access to GPs , NHS dentist and community pharmacist . in my Oxfordshire constituency , the grow number of people move into the area have not be match by an increase in GP , dentist or pharmacy service . indeed , frustration with the terrible conservative track record on these health issue be a major factor in my election to this place in July . in great Western Park in Didcot , where more than 5 , 000 people now live , there lie a site ready to be develop into a gp surgery , and there be money from the developer to build it . however , the local NHS body responsible for build it and provide the doctor , nurse and other support staff sadly have struggle to marshal the resource to do so . I call on the Government to prioritise support NHS body and to provide the mechanism for bring forward primary healthcare . meanwhile , many people in my constituency , particularly in Didcot , often can not see a gp without the early morning telephone rush that my colleague have articulately summarise , hope to get one of the precious slot . at the GP surgery in Didcot at which I be register , it be even a challenge to get an online appointment , with a two - minute window grant once a week to try to fill in an e - consult form — a process that generally defeat I for non - urgent matter . like my colleague , I hear from dentist in my constituency that the funding they receive for their NHS patient be barely enough to break even . it be no wonder that private dentistry dominate in my constituency , from Wallingford to Grove , Wantage and Didcot . as my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) articulate , mental health service — particularly child and adolescent service — be also under strain . all of these service need well support , so I call on the Government to take action and recognise that , as Lord Darzi say in his report , improve access to primary healthcare will significantly relieve pressure on A & E and , indeed , the need for cancer treatment by enable early diagnosis and therefore proactive intervention . I very much welcome this debate . GPs be rightly pillar of our community — doctor remain one of the most trusted profession , perhaps unlike our — but I want to mention some of the other key profession in the primary care sector , include practice nurse , who dedicate their life to work on behalf of our resident . right now , practice nurse be work hard to deliver flu , covid , RSV and shingle jab to many of our resident . they be the unsung hero who keep primary care go , but their number be decline due to wage constriction . new nurse look to boost their salary often opt for hospital - base care because they can improve their pay packet with unsocial hour payment . mental health nurse , healthcare assistant and social prescriber also provide essential service , and we must not forget receptionist , who bear much of the public ' s frustration after 14 year of fail government . they have my thank . GPs be in crisis . the Tories let waiting time soar and fail to deliver a new framework contract for GPs in time , lead to industrial action . I be very concerned that in my area we have sleep - walk into a two - tier health system , with long wait for those who can not afford private care and access for those who can . in Henley , we be see the first fully private gp practice and many people go for job with corporate insurance plan . there be now routinely four - week wait in place such as Thame , Benson , Watlington and Chalgrove , where we have see significant housing growth . as my hon . friend the Member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) mention , developer fund have be collect , but in Oxfordshire they be not be release in time to deliver the infrastructure that be need . I want to highlight the impact of those wait on some of the most vulnerable people . I recently speak to my constituent Suzannah Windsburrow , a tenacious campaigner with learn difficulty , who highlight to I just how important timely access to healthcare be for she . the collective impact of a lack of access mean that people with learn disability die early than those without one — 23 year early for man and 27 year early for woman . I very much welcome the Liberal Democrat commitment on health , and I encourage the Labour party to copy our manifesto — honestly , we win ' t mind — include our commitment to ensure that people can see a gp within seven day or , if it be urgent , 24 hour ; to 8 , 000 more gps ; and to provide a name gp for people over 70 . I also hope that Labour will copy our very important policy on deliver mental health professional in school . give the time constraint , I will skip some example , such as Thornbury health centre and Three Shires medical practice , which be already safely lodge in the Secretary of State ' s inbox . instead , I want to focus on the inter - dependence in the primary care system — an ecosystem in which strain in one part have knock - on effect in other — and to illustrate that with an example from my constituency . this summer , I meet a community pharmacist in Abbotswood , an area with significant health inequality . he raise the same concern about the flawed funding formula for pharmacy that we have hear today , but he have an additional challenge : the next - door gp surgery , with which his pharmacy have have a symbiotic relationship for many year , have be incorporate into a large group . the other surgery be in another urban area some mile away and difficult to access by public transport , and the local surgery now offer patient only limited hour . understandably , many of they be switch to surgery in central Yate , which have an impact not only on the viability of that local gp surgery but on the community pharmacy , which be miss out on the Pharmacy First referral that it might have expect . also , once people have travel into town , generally they will use the pharmacy there . if that pharmacy be unable to continue , people will miss out on its many valuable preventive service : monitor medication , provide service to those with diabetes and administer vaccination . that will increase pressure on GPs and our hospital . the pharmacist also comment on the impact of the dental desert in my area , as in other around the country . People can not access NHS dentistry , which lead to other health issue not be pick up . I want to stress that the Government can not fix just one part of the system — they have to look at the system as a whole . that be what the Liberal Democrats recognise in our manifesto . I urge the Government to look at our plan for the NHS and work constructively with we to fix all aspect of primary care . I mainly want to talk about dentistry , but first let I support the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) . GPs in my constituency be leave at an alarming rate , which be a problem of great concern across Somerset . we have hear about the Sahara desert ; if Norfolk be the eastern Sahara , Somerset and Devon be the western Sahara of dental desert . More than half the child in Somerset do not have access to an NHS dentist last year , which put Somerset in the worst - hit 5 % of local authority area in the country . the picture for adult be pretty similar . I set up a survey back in 2022 to draw attention to the lack of dentistry in Taunton and Wellington . official NHS figure show that in 2015 , the majority — 56 % — have access to an NHS dentist , but that have go down to only 32 % this year . as have be say , 99 % of people who need an NHS dentist can not get one . that be a totally unacceptable situation and a primary care time bomb because , as we have hear , the big cause of hospital admission for child under six be tooth decay . also , oral cancer be on the rise year on year , and without early detection by dentist , that will only get bad . just as the social contract under which people feel that they would get care be break , so be the dental contract itself . I urge the Government to tell the House how soon they will repair the dental contract and when they will increase the unit of dental activity payment so that the contract work . we need a timescale for address that . my constituent Kathryn have be with her NHS dentist for 20 year . like so many other , she lose they when that dentist withdraw NHS treatment . but unlike many other people , Kathryn be undergo treatment for secondary breast cancer , the side effect of which mean that her doctor have instruct she to have regular dental treatment . she be now use her hard - earn saving to pay for that dental treatment because it be not possible to get it on the NHS in Somerset . it be disgraceful and totally unacceptable that cancer sufferer be use their hard - earn saving to repair the damage of the legacy of appal NHS dental service leave by the last Government . there be a reference early to history and the origin of the NHS ; I contend that have that debate be akin to two bald man fight over a comb , give how far back in history it go . I be allow to make that joke , as be the Minister for Care , the hon . member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) . I stand today to place on record the shocking state in which the last government leave Cheltenham ' s NHS , but I will start by say thank you to the nearly 3 , 000 people in Cheltenham who have sign my petition to ensure that Cheltenham get the gp surgery it need as our town grow . GP wait time in Cheltenham be variable , but they be often far too long . that be not because GPs be not work hard — one I speak to recently tell I that they be see dozen of patient a day . of course , when it get that intense , it be beyond the level at which most human can cope with the processing of information . that be a safety issue . we owe a great debt of thank to our GPs . other Members have mention the dentistry desert . I research regularly on the internet and there be no dental practice I can find that be take new NHS patient in Cheltenham . that be regularly the case . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) be shake his head because many of my resident end up go to Gloucester on the odd occasion when they be lucky enough to find a place for one of their child . Most of the time , there be no space for adult . regularly , people in Cheltenham be refer as far away as Worcestershire for new dentistry . that be shocking . this all create tension in A & E , as we have hear . in 2013 , Cheltenham ' s A & E department be downgrade to an overnight nurse - lead service . in May 2015 , when the Conservatives start govern alone , 684 people wait more than four hour to be see at Cheltenham and Gloucester ' s A & E department . in May 2024 , when the general election be call , that number have balloon to 5 , 668 people wait more than the target time . that be absolutely shocking . the increase pressure have be cause in many case by people ' s inability to get dentistry and gp appointment . local campaign group reach — restore Emergency at Cheltenham General Hospital — be form to oppose that downgrade , and my two predecessor fight the downgrade . their good effort , I be afraid , have not yet bear fruit . I will join they , but it be now acknowledge by most people in Cheltenham that it be possible our A & E department will never be reinstate with 24 / 7 doctor - lead care . the current set - up put pressure on our hard - work gps and A & E . it can not be allow to continue . in the spirit of constructive opposition , we will work with the Government on solve these problem . thank you for call I in this important debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . in west Berkshire last year , we experience a 31 % increase in four - week wait for GP appointment compare to 2022 , indicate that more patient be struggle to access medical care . that be compound by we have the low pharmacy provision in the country , with 7 , 200 patient per pharmacy compare to the national average of 4 , 600 . last week , I meet constituent to hear about their experience of healthcare service . one share their frustration at see a gp only to be tell that their issue fall under the remit of a pharmacist . then the pharmacist tell they that it fall under the remit of the GP . that is , unfortunately , not a unique experience , with 24 . 2 % of people report a poor experience with GPs . that be why service such as Healthwatch West Berkshire be so important . the current governance model for partner GP surgery also need to be address to help maintain their very existence , in particular by de - risk lease in strategically important estate . I hope the Government will look at the general practice premise policy review of 2019 and implement its finding to ensure that lease be assign to NHS body . that will help with the retention of more GPs , which will in turn improve health outcome for patient . the public be sick and tired of our fail NHS . that be why , in July this year , they prescribe the Conservatives with a much - need period of opposition — hopefully a repeat prescription . I hope we can now start a treatment plan to get our NHS back to full health . I congratulate all those who have make excellent maiden speech today . I also congratulate the handful of Conservative Members who come out to try to defend their indefensible record on the NHS . when it come to NHS dentistry , constituency such as mine be some of the worst affect by the dental desert all around the country that we have hear about today — the shocking legacy of the Conservatives . as my hon . friend the Member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) and other have say , we must have NHS dental contract reform now — no more delay , no more excuse . one in five dentist have leave Cornwall since 2019 , and the number of urgent dental case be spiral out of control . I be not exaggerate when I say that upset , distressed parent contact I every single day about their child ' s rot tooth . they can not find nhs dentist , and they be completely at a loss . only last week , a panicked and anxious parent call Georgina get in touch with I because her daughter Phoebe , just 10 year old , be in need of emergency dental care , and have already miss a lot of school as a result . she need to have a rotting tooth remove , but her mother could not find an NHS dentist , so instead she be send to the Treliske hospital . just a few day later , Phoebe be urgently admit to A & E with extreme facial swelling . she be take into surgery , where the rotten tooth be remove after much pain and distress . her face have swell to the size of a tennis ball , and she have now be off school for week . the stress and anxiety that this experience cause Phoebe — who , by the way , have complex special educational need — her mother and the rest of the family be completely unnecessary . if Phoebe have just be give a place with an NHS dentist , the strain on the family and , importantly , the hospital that treat she would have be avoid entirely . during the election campaign , a teacher from Wadebridge admit to I that she have resort to use plier to extract a rotten tooth , as the alternative be to receive treatment as far away as Nottingham . More than 100 child be admit to hospital with tooth decay in Cornwall last year alone . the House need to come together and ensure that the problem of dental desert that we have hear about all day today be solve once and for all . what kind of society be we if we allow our child — indeed , people of all age — to suffer like this ? as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , general practice be the front door of the NHS , yet community in my constituency , such as in Arborfield Green , go without any local primary care provision . this be an area that be grow by thousand , and my constituent expect to have access to GPs who provide timely and appropriate care . the unfortunate truth be , however , that there simply be not enough gps . we know where the fault lie . the conservative party ' s underfunding and poor workforce planning have lead to a service in crisis , jeopardise the standard of care that patient receive . gp number have fall , and £ 350 million have be cut from general practice in real term since 2019 . each GP in my local ICB be be now responsible for , on average , 534 more patient than in 2016 , and nearly 80 % of GPs say that their workload be impact patient safety . it be clear that this be not a sustainable system , but , sadly , we never hear an apology from those on the conservative Benches — of whom there be five at the moment . I would be grateful for the Minister ' s view on the call from the Royal College of General Practitioners for an explicit reference to primary care infrastructure in the national planning policy framework . this , it argue , would strengthen the ability of local planning authority to hold developer to account on social infrastructure , such as GP surgery . I hope that the Minister will ask his colleague at the Ministry for Housing , Communities and Local Government to consider the Royal College ' s response , in order to ensure that place such as Arborfield do not lose out any long , and to ensure that as Wokingham continue to build to Government guideline , we have more gps to cope with all the extra patient that the new building will bring . I be proud to speak today about our NHS , which look after my constituent in Esher and Walton — young , old and in the middle — every day . but after year of neglect and failure by the previous Government , my constituent too often struggle to access primary healthcare , which we believe should be a right . the NHS be deny necessary reform and resource , and it have not be prepare for an age population with increase rate of chronic and complex condition . the extra strain be demonstrate in the ratio of patient per GP and in the daily life of my constituent , who suffer long wait or be unable to get appointment . I recently receive a letter describe how a GP appointment for a constituent ' s elderly mother be cancel at short notice and have not be reschedule after a month , despite several email . problem like this be far from be one - off . in my constituency , resident often struggle to get same - day gp appointment , and too many wait more than a week . our personal citizen contract with the NHS be implicit in be british , but that contract be fray . be able to access a gp in a timely manner be an essential expectation that my constituent still have , which be why enshrine the liberal Democrat guarantee of access to an appointment within seven day as a right in the NHS ' s constitution be so important . it reflect the duty of the Government to ensure that one ' s local GP be always accessible . the excessive wait time be intimately connect with the conservative failure to recruit and retain GPs . in the previous Government ' s 2019 manifesto , they commit to recruit more than 6 , 000 gps ; instead , there be few gps than there be five year ago . since then , however , the population have continue to rise and age , and condition have become more complex . the broken conservative promise — yet another failure — mean that in the last eight year , the number of patient per fully qualified GP in the Surrey heartland have rise to 2 , 163 , even though the UK have one of the low ratio of doctor to people , recently rank 22nd out of 33 OECD country . even when people can get an appointment , it be often not with a gp , often unknowingly . as my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) point out , the policy pursue by the previous Government , include the restriction on the recruitment of GPs under the additional role recruitment scheme , have result in incident of GPs in Esher and Walton be offer voluntary redundancy , even as resident struggle to get an appointment . our most vulnerable patient have a particular need for security and stability , and this belief under - pin the Lib Dem conviction that everyone over the age of 70 or with a long - term physical or mental health condition — Order . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . today mark the first Liberal Democrat Opposition day in this House for 15 year , and we have dedicate it to the topic that be fundamental to constituent up and down the country : carer , the provision of care , and the NHS . as the liberal Democrat spokesperson on hospital and primary care , it be my honour to close today ' s debate and to pay tribute to the many excellent contribution from my hon . friend and hon . member across the House . I commend my hon . friend the Members for North Devon ( Ian Roome ) , for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) , and for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) for their passionate tribute to their constituency in their maiden speech . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) , for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , and for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , who bring such valuable knowledge to the Chamber during debate on healthcare . our NHS be once the envy of the world . the care , compassion and accessibility that it offer be unparalleled . sadly , after year of conservative mismanagement , our NHS and care sector be in crisis . every day , thousand of patient face agonisingly long wait , often in terrible pain , while try to see a gp or get an appointment with a dentist . Lord Darzi ' s report highlight the fact that primary care service be heavily underfunde , which be lead to unnecessary hospital admission . there be clear economic benefit to invest more in primary care . with the first Budget of the new Government due to come to the House soon , I remind the Chancellor that every £ 1 spend in primary care be estimate to save £ 10 in urgent and secondary care . in my constituency of Chichester , people be deeply worried about access GPs , a concern echo throughout the general election campaign and reflect in my surgery appointment with resident . the public ' s trust in the NHS have be erode due to the consequence of poor conservative management . as my hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) point out , the Conservative Government promise 6 , 000 more gps in 2019 , but instead GP number have fall by almost 500 and GP practice funding have be cut by £ 350 million in real term since 2019 . Healthcare be not a luxury ; it be a necessity . as Liberal Democrats , we believe everyone should have a legal right to see a gp within seven day , or within 24 hour if it be urgent , so we would pledge to recruit 8 , 000 more gps to deliver on this promise . we also want those over 70 and those with long - term condition to have access to a name GP , ensure continuity of care , which help to prevent unnecessary hospital admission . as the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , mention , continuity of care be vital for patient trust and staff morale . this be not the first time I have mention this in the Chamber to the Secretary of State , but the collapse of a not - for - profit GP federation serve Chichester and the south coast last month be a stark reminder of the system ' s fragility . patient ' appointment be cancel , service be threaten and 130 staff be leave unpaid . the collapse be due to the erosion of contract value with primary care network and NHS Sussex . when GPs be sit in my surgery tell I they want to work but they can not , with no reassurance that they will be pay for the work that they have do , something have go terribly wrong . dental care be another critical area within primary care . we have hear today about dental desert across the country . during this afternoon ' s debate , I begin try to list every Member who mention their dental desert and I give up . it be shocking to hear the statistic and the harrowing case study from across the House . the Liberal Democrats be call for a dental rescue package that include investment in more dental appointment , reform the broken NHS dental contract and use flexible commissioning to meet patient need . Workforce planning for health and social care must also be write into law , ensure that we have enough dentist to meet demand . lastly , we must reverse the Conservatives ' cut to public health grant , in order to support preventive dental care , include oral health programme and promote healthy eat choice , which will reduce the pressure on our NHS dental service . the Government have an opportunity to turn around a decade of conservative chaos and mismanagement of our precious nhs and to give primary care the attention and focus it deserve , and we will work constructively with they to ensure that patient in Chichester and across the country get the care that they deserve . this really have be a vibrant and powerful debate . I thank the Liberal Democrats for use their Opposition day constructively to shine a sear spotlight on the challenge that our constituent face . hon . member make a series of outstanding contribution , but I thank in particular my hon . friend the Members for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) , for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) , for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) , for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) , for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) , for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) , for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) , for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) , for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) , for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) and for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) for demonstrate why our party always have be , and always will be , the champion of the NHS . I also congratulate the hon . member for North Devon ( Ian Roome ) , for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) and for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) on their excellent maiden speech . it be quite shocking to note , however , that in spite of the vital importance of this debate to our constituent , there be not a single contribution from the conservative back Benches . [ hon . member : " Shame ! " ] not only do the Conservatives refuse to apologise for the last 14 year , but they have run for the hill . their silence truly speak volume . Labour Members deal with fact and the unvarnished truth . on the subject of today ' s debate , the list of fact illustrate the appalling neglect and incompetence of the last 14 year be truly as long as my arm . if I be to pick out just one statistic to summarise the last 14 year , I might choose that the most common reason for child age five to nine be admit to hospital be tooth decay . it be a truly dickensian state of affair . I could also point to the UK ' s decrease gp number , as there be 1 , 500 few compare with seven year ago , against the backdrop of a rise population . or I could pick the collapse in patient satisfaction from 80 % in 2009 to a shocking 35 % last year . or I could single out the fact that more than 1 , 000 pharmacy have shut their door since 2017 , and that almost six pharmacy a week have leave the market in the last year . the charge sheet be so long that a month of debate in this Chamber could not cover the profound damage that have be do by 14 year of short - termism and sticking - plaster politic , and by the botched top - down reorganisation in 2012 . the reality be that the Tories douse the house in petrol and covid light the match . the reaction to a propose ward closure in my local St Cross hospital in Rugby show how concerned the public be about the health system after 14 year of underinvestment by the last government . in this case , however , the closure be because patient be be care for close to home . do my hon . friend agree that bring more service into the community , and into small hospital such as the one in my constituency , be integral to manage present and future demand , and to put our NHS on a sustainable footing ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this strategic shift from hospital into the community will be vital and central to our 10 - year plan for the future of our health and care system . primary care be the NHS ' s front door , but the Tories spend 14 year bricke it over . now it be wall off to million of people across our country , so it fall to this Labour Government to tear down that wall . we know that there be not a second to waste , not least on mental health . it be unacceptable that so many child , young people and adult be not receive the mental health care they need . we know that wait for mental health service be far too long , and we be determined to change that . we will recruit 8 , 500 additional mental health worker across child and adult mental health service , we will introduce a specialist mental health professional in every school , and we will roll out Young Futures hub in every community . we will reopen the front door to the NHS by rebuild general practice on the firm foundation it need to get the service back on its foot and fit for the future . as well as need more GPs , our GPs need decent premise from which to deliver high - quality care to patient . Park Road surgery in my constituency have be look for new premise for more than a decade — it serve 13 , 000 patient out of an old victorian house — but there simply be not the budget , and the process be too complex . will the Minister commit to both look at the bureaucracy and press the Chancellor for more capital investment in primary care ? as the Darzi review show , one of the most egregious example of the neglect and incompetence of the past 14 year be the underspend on capital . we be clear that a number of premise across the country can be repurpose , and that the bureaucracy need to be clear out of its way . as the Prime Minister say early this week , we will have a mission about smart regulation and clear the bureaucratic barrier to change . we be also cut red tape so that GPs spend less time push paper and more time face - to - face with the patient they serve . we be work to bring back the family doctor and to end the 8 am scramble . we have do more for primary care in the last 14 week than that lot do in the last 14 year . on dentistry , we will introduce supervised tooth brushing for three to five - year - old in deprive area , end the national scandal of tooth decay . and we be rebuild the bridge that the Conservatives burn with the British Dental Association . I have already meet the BDA , and we will deliver a rescue plan that get NHS dentistry back on its foot , with 700 , 000 additional urgent appointment , start as soon as possible , in those part of our country that need they most . give the shocking state the last Government leave we in , be it not good that the grown - up be now in the building and that we have see the urgency need in the NHS , commission the Darzi report and invest £ 82 million , alongside make our commitment to tackle dentistry , use pharmacy and reduce the unnecessary burden ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for get the strike sort within a week of we take power — what a change that have make . we will reform the dentistry contract to make nhs work more attractive , boost retention and deliver a shift to prevention . on pharmacy , as my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) make clear , we will shift the focus of our NHS out of hospital and into the community , empower more pharmacist to prescribe independently , and free up gp appointment for those who need they most . that shift from hospital to community be vital for demand management in the primary and acute sector . on the whole , this have be an excellent debate , but I find it absolutely extraordinary that not a single word of humility or contrition be utter by the official Opposition . where be the apology for the fact that they spend 14 year bring our NHS to its knee ? where be the mea culpa for the way in which they spend 14 year scapegoate the workforce , dodge the tough question and pass the buck ? where be the acknowledgment of the fact that they call the election and run away from their £ 22 billion black hole and from the multiple crisis in our public service ? while the conservative party continue to live in a parallel universe , we on the Government Benches be live in the real world . we be honest about the scale of the challenge , and we be up for the fight . while the mountain before we be daunt , we be not daunt . instead , we be focus on the future , reform and rebuilding , and on shift from hospital to community , from sickness to prevention , and from analogue to digital . let we roll up our sleeve and get to work . question put ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the Question . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tom Morrison Susan Murray Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 80 , Noes 337 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . question agree to . Main Question , as amend , put and agree to . resolve , that this House regret that the NHS have be plunge into crisis by year of neglect by the previous Government , leave far too many people wait week to see a gp or unable to find an NHS dentist , and child and adult waiting month or even year to receive the mental health care they need ; believe that everyone should be able to access high - quality primary care service when they need they and where they need they ; condemn the previous Government for preside over a fall in the number of full - time equivalent fully qualified GPs and NHS dentist in the last Parliament ; welcome the urgency with which the new Government commission Lord Darzi to conduct an independent investigation of the NHS in England ; recognise that within week of take office the Government invest £ 82 million to recruit 1 , 000 newly qualified gps ; note the Government commitment to tackle the dental crisis by provide 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment and recruit new dentist to the area that need they ; approve the Government ' s commitment to expand the role of pharmacy and well utilise the skill of pharmacist and pharmacy technician ; and welcome the Government ' s commitment to far reduce unnecessary bureaucracy as care shift from hospital to community . Petition - CCTV camera along river bank in city centre I rise to present a petition concern CCTV camera along river bank in city centre . on 20 September 2023 , Leah Bedford tragically die after enter the River Ouse , and be deeply miss by her family and friend . she be just 16 year old . I be grateful to her auntie , Jayne Reynolds , for her fortitude in campaigning , out of this tragedy , for significantly well river safety , and specifically for well surveillance along river bank , together with well lighting . I wholly support she , and the 1 , 428 resident of York who sign paper and electronic petition to call for change . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure that all riverbank in city centre be well light and have CCTV camera so that riverbank be monitor to prevent fatality and the film be make available to the relevant authority if people go miss or body be find in the river . and the petitioner remain , etc . " in honour of Leah Bedford , I bring this petition to the House . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of Jayne Reynolds , declare that all river in city centre should have CCTV camera along their full length within city centre ; far declare that local authority should fund these ; and note that riverbank should be well light and film by day and night so that intervention can be make if people be near the river to prevent fatality and so that family can learn what have happen to their love one when people go miss or body be find in the river . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure that all riverbank in city centre be well light and have CCTV camera so that riverbank be monitor to prevent fatality and the film be make available to the relevant authority if people go miss or body be find in the river . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003011 ] flooding : Bedfordshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) I rise in Flood Action Week to raise an issue that be front - of - mind for so many of my constituent . the flooding in September devastate home , farm and business right across my constituency and those of hon . friend across Bedfordshire . indeed , my home in Shillington be flood . two month - worth of rainfall in 24 hour cause considerable damage to property and risk for people , especially the elderly or vulnerable , so I thank all the first responder and council worker who work tirelessly to support my constituent . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this Adjournment debate during Flood Action Week . constituent of mine be also impact by the flooding across the county . last week , I meet representative from the Fire Brigades Union , who say that over 400 call have be take in seven hour on flood - relate issue alone . I pay tribute to they . do he agree that there should be recognition of firefighter who carry out flooding rescue , which they do alongside all their other duty even though it be not a statutory service ? so many people across so many organisation , include fire and rescue , work tirelessly to protect our community . I associate myself with the hon . Lady ' s comment about the support provide by our local police and fire and rescue service . Mid Bedfordshire be not an area at obvious risk of extreme flooding — unlike other part of the county , we lack major river beyond the River Flit — but our soil type range from the thin sandy soil of the Greensand ridge to poorly drain clay soil , each of which present its own flooding challenge . our winter be get wetter , and I know that many family will , like mine , look at the damage do by those flood and worry that such flooding will become the norm . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate , which be important for resident of Bedfordshire . he talk about not have river in his constituency , but in North Bedfordshire we be bless with two . although this flooding be an extreme event , flood issue have be persistent in place such as Harrold , Clapham and Great Barford , and , most recently and quite devastatingly , in Tempsford and Wyboston in my constituency . do he welcome the initiative take up by the Mayor of Bedford , Tom Wootton , to get a comprehensive approach from all the different agency that can help resident with their flood response , and do he agree that that be a model for assess flood risk in Bedfordshire ? I absolutely agree . I would love to join any of those meeting with Mayor Tom to support those effort in my ward of Wixams and Wootton . I commend the hon . Gentleman , to whom I speak beforehand , for secure the debate . a conversation that people sometimes have be about the co - ordination between different department , as the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) allude to . if the flooding of road and housing development area be know about in advance , could well co - ordination improve thing for our constituent ? for many people , it might simply be about have a sandbag available . People need to know those thing ; maybe that would help . certainly , one of the lesson that I have learn from the flooding in Mid Bedfordshire be that many statutory body be involve in flood response and resilience . we need to work hard to ensure that those organisation work together . it be so important that the Government , local authority and other learn the right lesson from those flood , and I hope that this debate can play a role in guide that conversation . first , let I reflect on the direct impact on constituent in Mid Bedfordshire . hundred of resident have take the time to describe for I the huge loss that they have suffer , and I thank they for take the time to do so while try to recover from flood damage . Emma from Marston Moretaine , who fill in my recent flooding survey , tell I : " our property be completely soak front and back . we see water rise , and beside the path at our house there be gush water ! we have to call for help . water come in through the side and foundation , and in the end there be nothing we could do . " caroline from Flitwick also take the time to share her experience : " severe flooding of my property require full water removal from my home and severe repair . I be currently stay with family but have to relocate for a minimum of 6 month whilst repair be do . " Rita from Harlington explain that " we have internal flooding start at 9 . 30 be with sewerage come up from a manhole cover inside our garage . we contact anglian water by 10 am . we couldn ' t shower or flush the toilet as it be gurgle back up ! then the rain come — the front drive be a deluge . we have neighbour help with bucket and pump try to get the water off our property . it be a fighting battle — the water reach the front door and come into the property . " be flood be not just an inconvenience : it be expensive , and it be heartbreaking for family to see their valuable — some of they irreplaceable — wash away . shortly after the flooding , I take the time to visit dozen of local business , include Disco - licious in Gravenhurst , Maulden Garden Centre and the Dog House day care centre , which be also in Maulden . those business , together with many other , have experience severe financial loss , and in some case have see many year of hard work and investment wash away before their eye . our farmer have be some of the bad hit , with severe and significant flooding report at several local farm , include at Moreteyne ' s Retreat , a smallholding that have be impact hugely by floodwater flow from the a421 . in the aftermath of that flooding , I have learn that 74 % of the UK ' s floodplain be agricultural land . flooding can destroy whole crop yield , waste month of work and threaten the livelihood of our farmer , in many case at the same time as they see their home devastate by floodwater . my hon . friend have mention landowner and farmer . he will be well aware of the internal drainage board , which do such vital work to protect land and require the resource to do so . the previous Government commit £ 75 million to drainage board , but we have yet to see that money deliver by the current Administration . we also need a long - term solution to the funding of idb , so that local authority be not put under undue pressure by have to fund those drainage board themselves . I thank my right hon . friend for make that point . he have steal my thunder , because I be go to make that exact point later in my speech , so I will skip over it when I get to that section . say it again ! perhaps I will say it again . England have suffer its second bad harvest on record , with persistent wet weather , and waterlogge field risk put our farmer out of business over the medium to long term . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . build on that point , many of our farmer — not only across Bedfordshire , but across the whole of the country — be face their second serious crop loss in a grow period . do my hon . friend agree that it be incredibly frustrating that , despite the last Conservative Government have allocate £ 50 million through the farming recovery fund , many farmer who urgently need that money — money that be guarantee to get out of the door — be not yet receive it from the new Administration ? my hon . friend be exactly right : it be very frustrating . I know that constituent who farm in my constituency be incredibly frustrated that funding will not be make available . the persistent wet weather be a disaster not only for farmer , but for all of we , because it impact yield and quality , result in high food price and threat to national food security . the Government need to take action , recognise that farmer in Bedfordshire be businesspeople , but also that they provide a public benefit by take flooding that would otherwise flow into our town and village . I hope the Minister will work with colleague to design a scheme to properly recognise the contribution our farmer make by allow their field to flood , and to remunerate they for that contribution . our local council — as a councillor myself , I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — have do fantastic work to support resident . they have be force to pick up the piece and the bill to manage the response , and now to put thing right . they have not get everything right — far from it — but they have step up during this emergency and provide significant resource to keep people safe , particularly the most vulnerable . our household , business , farmer and council now need the Government to step up and do their bit by release fund to support our community to recover and improve resilience . the Minister have discretion in this area , and I be surprised to receive a response to a write question this afternoon suggest that the flooding be not at a sufficient scale to be consider exceptional enough to release recovery funding — perhaps the Minister will address that point in her closing remark . I be concerned that the Government fail to appreciate the significant but localise impact of this particular flooding event . my constituent want , and deserve , support . perhaps the most high - profile victim of our recent flooding be the a421 , which be close for week after more than 60 million litre of water collect in a dip in the road at Marston Moretaine . National Highways have work hard around the clock to reopen the road , but as we look at lesson learn , significant question must be ask about how we get here — how a major a - road , connect Bedford to the M1 , build this century , can have be build down into the ground in a historic floodplain , which of course be prone to flooding . it be design in such a way that it regularly flood a little , but be build with flooding mitigation insufficient to deal with the kind of flooding that could become all too common in the year ahead . as this Government look to build similar infrastructure in the year ahead , we must heed the warning of the a421 and build in a way that be protect from not the flooding of yesterday , but the flooding of tomorrow . road be not the only area where problem with ineffective infrastructure have exacerbate the impact of flooding on my resident in Mid Bedfordshire . the block drain report right across Mid Beds in place like Lower Shelton , Flitwick , Cranfield , Harlington and Maulden significantly increase the likelihood of surface water flooding . clear the drain regularly , if not the sole solution , represent common sense to my constituent and be a quick answer to mitigate at least some of the risk . they want to see the schedule of maintenance improve materially . leave fall every autumn and block drain , not every three year , and utility company dig up road and fill drain with mud and tarmac , only to leave they to be clear by the council in its three - yearly cycle . this simply be not good enough , and it be put property and live at risk . I therefore call on the Government to urgently consider introduce a new statutory duty on local authority to clear drain and culvert regularly , back by central funding at the Budget to ensure that council have the resource they need . I also urge the government — this be the point that my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) raise — to look at the way that internal drainage board be fund , to ensure that they have the resource they need to manage local flood risk . I ask the Minister to commit to meet I and interested colleague to discuss how that might be achieve . in Leicestershire , we have a lot of landowner who should be do more to help alleviate flooding . unfortunately , local authority have very limited power to compel they to act . do my hon . friend agree that more need to be do to bolster the power of local flood authority , which be invariably upper - tier council ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I agree that that be something the Government should be look at . during the recent flooding , I be appal to learn that drain and sewer in the new town of Wixams be overload with surface floodwater . seventeen year after construction begin in Wixams , the drainage infra - structure should be adequate to accommodate many more house than have so far be build . I urge the Minister to join I in press Anglian Water to take urgent action to expand its sewerage and drainage infra - structure . Wixams be merely the most obvious example of a problem that resident be see repeatedly with development . House by house , development by development , infrastructure be fail to keep pace . while an individual development might not be enough to overwhelm the system or cause knock - on flooding impact , the accumulate weight of development be create huge problem across the country — include in Maulden in my constituency , where development have creep gradually up the slope of the Greensand ridge , result in water have few place to stop and soak , so that it instead surge down into the village . while the flooding infrastructure for these new development might in theory be sufficient for planner to justify development , planning be fail to cope with the demand place on it by multiple and interconnected development , which be pile pressure on to network and our natural environment . with the Government set to review the planning system and ask for our town and village to take thousand of additional home , I implore the Minister to work with colleague to deliver reform that require flooding authority to take a wide system view of the impact of development . we need to ensure that housing target do not put the delivery of new home over the habitability of housing stock , or the safety and sustainability of our community . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way , and for secure such an important debate not only for his constituent , but for all Bedfordshire Members present . the point he be make be really important , and be feel keenly by my resident in Langford , on Southland Rise , where the failure of flood prevention measure put in place as part of a new development mean that several of they have have catastrophic flooding in a very short space of time over the past few week . do he share my view that not only be consideration of flood risk through local and national planning framework clearly in need of review , but we need to ensure that measure be in place for robust enforcement , to ensure that the flooding mitigation measure that be include in new development actually work as it be claim they should ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . that story be feel and hear all across Mid Bedfordshire , and I agree with the point he make . as a starting point , I would like the Government to consider urgently introduce secondary legislation to bring into effect schedule 3 to the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 . the Minister smile , so she perhaps have a point to make on that when she wind up . I understand from a recent answer to my write question that the Minister want to be mindful of the impact of over - regulation on developer , but build home in a way that increase the flood risk in our town and village do nothing to alleviate the housing crisis . we must also consider the benefit of nature and nature - base solution . natural upstream solution would help capture water and absorb some of the bad impact of flooding . the Bedford and Milton Keynes waterway park be a great local example of a project that have the potential to remove water during flooding — and , indeed , to deliver water when it be most need during drought — and we must press ahead and deliver it at pace . in addition , we need the Government to look again at their plan to designate inferior - quality area of the countryside for development , and instead commit to a bold strategy of restore nature , and in so do , create natural flood defence for our town and village . in our town and village themselves , I would like the Government to commit to a natural regeneration programme , use tree and nature to create sponge city by enhance drainage to prevent surface water flooding . I will conclude with a final lesson that I hope the Minister will reflect on . my constituent be disappoint that , while she take the time to visit those in nearby Leighton Buzzard and to observe the impact of flooding there , our town and village in Mid Bedfordshire receive no attention from the Government at all . with a major road close and a substantial number of house and business impact , have the flooding in Mid Bedfordshire be concentrate in a single major urban area , I have no doubt that we would have attract some specific focus . I have raise question with the Minister and the Department that remain unanswered . I urge the Government to remember that rural area be impact by flood too , and that they should be properly serve by this government , not an afterthought . I call the Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair . I thank the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) for secure the debate on this important matter , and everyone who have contribute to the discussion . I start by sincerely express my sympathy with all the individual whose home and business have be impact by flood . I may have previously share with the House the impact on I when , in 2007 , the city that I represent be flood . it be a story for another day , but I be teach at the time , and when the floodwater come in we have to evacuate . flooding have a devastating impact on people for a long time afterwards , include on their mental health , so I be very sympathetic to the hon . Gentleman as a victim of flood himself . I realise it be not easy at all . as the hon . Gentleman mention , more than 1 , 000 property be flood follow recent heavy rain across central and southern England . the effect be feel particularly in community in Bedfordshire , Northamptonshire , Oxfordshire , Shropshire , Buckinghamshire and north - west London , but more than 22 , 000 property be protect by exist flood defence . as he say , I visit the Leighton Buzzard area in Bedfordshire on 26 September to meet volunteer and local resident and see at first hand the impact of the flooding there . I know many people be now face month of disruption and upset . I be particularly strike by one of the lady I meet , who be in tear when I go into her home . she show I what have be her beautiful home , in which she have live for over 20 year and on which she have spend a lot of time , and how it have just be ruin by the floodwater come in , which she find absolutely devastating . the hon . Gentleman be right to point out how this impact on vulnerable people . I hear story of an elderly lady have to be rescue and take away from her home . I absolutely pay tribute to Humberside fire and rescue service . sorry , not just Humberside — I be so used to say that — but all the fire and rescue service for their work in rescue people . I also thank the hon . Gentleman for join the call that we have with the Environment Agency , which be something new that I have try since become a Minister . it would simply be impossible for I to visit everywhere , so I want to find other way to be as open and accessible as possible , which be why we try this call . we have about 50 member of Parliament on the call , and it be a way for hon . member to get information directly from the Environment Agency , so I be grateful that he join it . the Minister and I work together when she be on this side of the House , so I know she be true to her word . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) — very nobly , I think — suggest that we ought to have a meeting about idb . this be a critically important issue for many part of the country , and I be sure that a small delegation of colleague could , in the spirit that the Minister have just describe , have a very productive discussion . would she agree to that ? the right hon . Gentleman be so difficult to say no to . how infuriate — I have experience this before . yes , we will . that will be fine . I will be attend the internal drainage board conference , so after I have meet people there , I be happy to meet a delegation to talk about idb . I can already hear my private office say , " you ' ve agree to another meeting , Minister " , and tell I off . I be part of the call to which the Minister refer on 30 September . I be an MP in Somerset , and we request a meeting . we have the benefit of the Somerset Rivers Authority , which I believe be unique in the country . we need to wrestle with how we enable the Environment Agency , the internal drainage board , the council , the river authority , and every other agency to address the problem of flooding for people in Somerset as well . will she please ensure that her official make that meeting happen ? absolutely . as the hon . Lady will be aware , the flooding happen during recess and we have be back just one week . it be all note down , and if I make a promise I stick to it , so we will have that . there be also innovation in the incident response from the Environment Agency — I find this quite interesting , but that be perhaps my inner geek come out . it launch drone flight over the flooded area to assess and monitor where have be flood , and look for where there be blockage and fall tree in some of the waterway . it be then able to send people out to remove they . I think that be a clever way of cover as much area as possible , especially in large rural area , to see where it need to solve a problem . I reiterate the Government ' s thank to the Environment Agency local responder and many other who work tirelessly to help community across the country deal with the local flood . I also pay tribute to our farmer , as this be the bad two year in a row of harvest that they have face , and I realise the impact that that have have on the mental health of many of they . I accept the frustration around the farming flood recovery fund , and I be afraid I will have to give an equally frustrating answer , which be that until the Budget be announce , there be not much more I can say on that matter , although I realise that that will not offer people the reassurance they want at the moment . where I can offer reassurance be that I know the National Farmers Union be keen to consider how the formula be calculate when it come to assess where flood defence be build . at the moment be base on the number of property protect . I want to look at that formula — I know that have be call for over a long time — to see whether it be still the formula that we need , and I have commit to do that with the NFU . I pay tribute to a few of the volunteer group I meet in Bedfordshire , include the Bedfordshire local emergency volunteer executive committee , and particularly a lady call June Tobin , and Graham Mountford , who be fantastic . it be brilliant to see how well the volunteer organisation be embed in the emergency response by the Bedfordshire local resilience forum . I be also impress by the work of AMYA and what it be do to get young people involve in volunteering . many young people be volunteer at Meadow Way community centre , especially two impressive young teenage girl who tell I that they want to come and help in the community . they be there make tea and coffee for everybody , and I think that they deserve a special mention in my speech . I be sure the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire also find many wonderful example of people help . as have be mention , it be Flood Action Week — what a week to be talk about flooding . if you will indulge I for a moment , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to reiterate a few safety message around Flood Action Week . we be urge the public to know and understand their flood risk , and to please sign up for flood alert . if there be one thing each Member of Parliament can do it be encourage our constituent to sign up for flood alert . if people have the time , that mean they can get prepare . we would also like people to look at prepare a flood kit , and have medication and essential if they be go to be away from home or ask to evacuate at short notice , as well as think about what will happen with pet . the Environment Agency have extensive guidance on what we can do to try to improve our flood resilience . there be an event today , which I hope many member be able to attend — the Environment Agency and Flood Re ' s parliamentary drop - in . if people be unable to attend , I be sure they can email out the information for member to communicate to constituent . I reassure the hon . member that flooding be one of DEFRA ' s five key priority . the honest truth be that we have inherit flood defence at their bad since 2010 . the condition rating of key flood defence in England be at 92 % . that be the low it have be in 14 year , which be clearly concern as we go into another wet winter , as have be mention . because of that , we have be move £ 36 million extra to the urgent repair of some of those flood defence , and we also have mobile asset — have 275 mobile pump and 25 km of mobile flood defence . by use knowledge around long - term forecast , we want to get those mobile resource into the area require , but the situation be definitely far from ideal . the previous Government ' s flood investment programme be unfortunately behind schedule and over budget . I be urgently review it to ensure we have a flood programme that be fit for purpose , and as have be mention , I have be look at how the formula work . the hon . Member mention one of my favourite word , which be suds , or sustainable urban drainage system — only people with this level of geekery get excited about that — as well as schedule 3 of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 . I be pleased he point out that it date from 2010 have still not be enact . it be important that we look at sustainable urban drainage . as he mention , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be do a review of how the whole planning system work , and it will come as no surprise to he that I be push from the defra end of thing on how we can ensure that the home we build be flood - proof now and in the future and , importantly , do not contribute or add to flood risk within an area . those be two important issue . the priority for the hon . member be his constituency , but we must bear in mind that water be a tricky thing that do not obey constituency or national border . therefore , as have be point out , if we want to tackle flooding , sometimes the answer be literally far upstream . I enjoy hear he mention natural flood management solution , which be another thing I get excited about . we have a nature crisis , so if we can deliver something that not only deliver protection from flooding but increase nature , be that not a wonderful thing to do ? I be a huge fan . I do not think the answer to everything should always be more concrete , although at time of course we need those hard flood defence . it be important to look at a catchment - base approach to how we handle this , where we can look at slow the flow in some area or move water out more quickly in other . the hon . Member also mention the a421 . I be stick on that road as well . after visit the flooded area in Leighton Buzzard , I realise I could not get a lift back to London , because Euston station be shut . I end up try to get a lift from someone up to Peterborough to make my way back up to Hull , and I be stick on a diversion from the a421 . I feel his pain as a fellow victim of that particular closed road . the Environment Agency estimate that £ 3 . 5 million will be invest in Bedfordshire to increase flood resilience . as the hon . Member rightly say , for many area surface water be the problem , so many of the scheme provide will be small - scale surface water solution . [ interruption . ] be I get the nod to hurry up ? okay , I will speed on . we can continue much of this discussion at a later date . to conclude , I reiterate that this Government will act to ensure that people be well protect from flooding in the first place . we be determined to turbocharge the delivery and repair of flood defence , to improve drainage system and to develop natural flood management solution . we be invest more than £ 1 . 25 billion this year to scale up national resilience through build new and improve exist flood defence . the Government be review the exist programme to get it back on track , after the pace slow due to the impact of inflation and delay in the supply chain . the flood resilience taskforce , which we set up and which have already meet , include the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the Home Office , the Cabinet Office , the Environment Agency , the Met Office , local resilience forum , the mayoral office , emergency responder and the National Farmers Union . it will meet again in January . emergency service , the EA , local authority , voluntary organisation and Departments stand ready to support affected community in any future flooding . flooding be personal and a priority for I , and I will work tirelessly to make our community more resilient to flooding . question put and agree to . House adjourn .