Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — reoffende what step he be take to ensure that people leave prison be provide with support to help prevent reoffende . what step he be take to help reduce reoffende . what step his Department be take to help reduce rate of reoffende by people release from prison . since 2010 , crime have fall and so have reoffende , with the overall prove rate of reoffende down from over 31 % in 2011 - 12 to 25 % in 2021 - 22 . that mean that few innocent member of the public be suffer from the misery of fall victim to crime . we have go far , build up initiative include a new prison education service , expand access to incentivise substance - free living wing for drug recovery , and the groundbreaking guarantee of 12 week ' post - release accommodation to secure that essential period of stability for offender to turn their life around . with the reoffende rate at over 25 % , rise to nearly 50 % for burglary , reoffende be cost the country £ 18 billion a year and the service be fail to keep we safe . if just a small fraction of that cost be invest in probation staff to address the problem cause by 50 , 000 day lose through sickness and 2 , 000 people leave each year , it could be transformative . will the Justice Secretary back Operation Protect , the campaign spearhead by the justice union , and ensure that there be a comprehensive workforce plan to recruit , retain and return the staff need to prevent reoffende ? the hon . Lady be right . we want to drive the offend rate down , and it be good news that it be down from about 31 % in 2010 to 25 % now , but we do believe in invest in probation . that be why the baseline be up by £ 155 million , and it be why we have add 4 , 000 trainee since 2020 . since the reunification of probation service , the number have rise by 17 % . probation officer keep society safe , and we will back they all the way . I recently raise the issue of social medium use in prison , allegedly by one of those responsible for the murder of Jack Woodley , the son of my constituent Zoey McGill . we have a local campaign against knife crime , and at the late working group meeting we discuss deterrent . Zoey would like to understand what consequence be suffer by this individual for the post that he send , but also why he should be wear a designer t - shirt and apparently lead a cushy life . Prison need to be see as a deterrent , but if inmate be have it easy with designer wear and no consequence , how be that a deterrent ? may I ask the Secretary of State what be be do to address this , and to make prison the deterrent that it should be ? I know that the whole House will want to send its deep sympathy to Zoey McGill follow the shocking murder of her son in 2021 . it be a dreadful crime , of which 10 man be convict and for which they receive life sentence . the use of social medium in prison be not acceptable , and this content be remove from the social medium platform . we have be invest £ 100 million in prison security and new technology , include x - ray scanner to tackle the smuggling of contraband mobile phone . those who be catch can face loss of privilege , more time in custody , and even a referral to the police and the Crown Prosecution Service for consideration of further charge . last year I be grateful for the Government ' s support for my private Member ' s Bill to limit Friday release for vulnerable prisoner . it be an important measure and be now an Act , but it be only one of the measure that we should be take to reduce reoffende and help people get back on their foot when they leave prison . the excellent charity Switchback have suggest that , at the very minimum , people should be leave prison with access to ID and an internet - enable mobile phone just to get their life in order so that they can access universal credit and other service . what consideration have my right hon . and learn Friend give to those suggestion ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his excellent work in successfully champion the limit on Friday prison release . the change for which he call come into force last November and be exceptionally helpful , and he deserve great credit for that . he be also right to point to the brilliant work of Switchback , which have support our resettlement work . that work include the roll - out of 12 week ' guarantee accommodation and the introduction of resettlement passport , which contain precisely the basic information to which my hon . Friend refer , such as a prisoner ' s name , date of birth , national insurance number and release date . they help prisoner to access essential service such as housing and healthcare , and contribute to the driving down of reoffending , which , as be recognise by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , be significantly low than it be in 2010 . the wife of a remand prisoner at Wormwood Scrubs write to I recently to say that the prison be so cold that prisoner be shake , that they have to choose between work , social time and showering , and that the food be lack in basic nutrition . I can explore these matter with the Prisons Minister in a couple of week ' time during our joint visit to the Scrubs , but do the Secretary of State agree that such condition be not conducive to rehabilitation ? this be an important point . we do deprive people of liberty and sometimes we have to do so in the case of those on remand , but the condition must be safe , decent and humane — austere , yes , but humane as well . I commend the hon . gentleman for go to see the Scrubs with the Prisons Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , and I shall be very interested to hear his view thereafter . I call shadow Minister Ruth Cadbury . we need to tackle the revolving door of reoffende in our justice system , yet the reoffende rate , as a proportion of those leave prison , continue to rise . whatever the Secretary of State may say , I have hear time and again that the lack of secure housing , adequate and appropriate healthcare , education , job training and job support mean that prisoner be be leave to fail after they be release . it be the victim of crime who suffer when ex - prisoner reoffend . can the Secretary of State announce when the Government expect the reoffende rate to go down ? it be important to note that reoffende be down compare with under the last Labour Government . the hon . Lady shake her head , but one can dispute opinion in this House , but not fact . the reoffende rate in 2010 be around 31 % ; it be 25 % now . that mean few people fall victim to crime . the hon . Lady refer to accommodation , and she be right to do so . what she do not advert to be this Government ' s decision to provide 12 week ' guarantee accommodation , which do not happen under a Labour Government . when I go to Luton and Dunstable , I speak to a probation officer who have do the job for 30 year , and do you know what he say ? it be the single most effective measure to drive down reoffende . who do that ? not the Labour party , but we . dangerous offender : increase Sentences what step he be take to increase sentence for dangerous offender . measure in the Sentencing Bill will ensure that those who commit the bad crime will receive the most severe punishment . the Bill create a duty for the court to impose a whole life order for murder currently subject to a whole life order start point and for those that involve sexual or sadistic conduct , unless there be exceptional circumstance . the Bill will also ensure that convict rapist must serve 100 % of their custodial term in prison , follow by a licence period . I thank the Minister for his answer and welcome those measure . the two bad case I have have to deal with as an MP be where woman be brutally murder by a partner or ex - partner . what be the Government go to do in response to the Clare Wade review to increase sentence for people who commit those awful , vile offence ? my hon . friend be quite right to raise the issue of domestic homicide . we be determined to act to protect the victim of domestic abuse and ensure that the appropriate punishment be in place for perpetrator . that be why , follow Clare Wade KC ' s review , we be increase sentence by introduce statutory aggravating factor for murder that be precede by control or coercive behaviour , involve overkill , or be connect with the end of a relationship . do the Minister agree that wide society ' s confidence in the judicial system be often determine by how dangerous offender be treat ? do he agree that it be vital that we get the message out there , both to wide society and to potential offender , that there be the ultimate price to pay , which be a long sentence in prison for criminal offence such as these ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I agree with those sentiment entirely . Public Bodies : Legal Duty of Candour with reference to his oral statement of 6 December 2023 on Hillsborough : Bishop James Jones Report , , column 341 , if he will bring forward legislative proposal to introduce a legal duty of candour on public body . in his excellent report , " the patronising disposition of unaccountable power " , Bishop James Jones call for the creation of the Hillsborough charter for bereaved family , as well as for the imposition of a duty of candour on police officer . we agree wholeheartedly , which be why the Government have sign the charter alongside the Crown Prosecution Service , the National Police Chiefs ' Council and other , and impose a duty of candour on the police . we be also legislate to create a strong , permanent and independent public advocate to speak up for victim and their family , and to rigorously hold signatory to the charter to account . we stand ready to discuss what further step may be necessary . the parent of Zane Gbangbola be in the Public Gallery today . Zane be just seven when he die , follow flood 10 year ago this month . the fire brigade detect hydrogen cyanide multiple time . his parent , Kye and Nicole , have be fight for the truth about their son ' s death ever since , and a duty of candour would have help they to get it . in lieu of that , will the Government establish an independent panel inquiry with full disclosure , so that all the evidence can be review by expert , we can finally get the truth about what happen to an innocent seven - year - old boy , and justice can be do ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this deeply upsetting case , and I know the whole House will be think of Kye and Nicole as they continue to mourn the loss of Zane . the hon . Gentleman raise a critically important case . may I suggest that he and I discuss it and see what further step can properly be take in this difficult case ? I call shadow Minister Kevin Brennan . I welcome the meeting that the Secretary of State have just offer . the problem with the Government ' s response be that it ought to be centre on the experience of family , not on the convenience of state bureaucracy , in order to ensure that they be never repeat . there be nothing in what we have see so far from the Government that go as far as we and , more importantly , the family believe be necessary to require public authority to act with candour and transparency . why be the Secretary of State persist with a piecemeal approach , instead of commit to a clear , compelling and comprehensive duty of candour , as propose in the Hillsborough law ? as I say , the recommendation of Bishop James Jones ' s report , which we have consider extremely carefully , contain the charter for bereaved family , and it be worth reflect on what paragraph 3 of the report say . it require the public body to " approach form of public scrutiny — include public inquiry and inquest — with candour , in an open , honest and transparent way , make full disclosure of relevant document , material and fact . " take together with the power that exist under the Inquiries Act 2005 , there be potentially criminal culpability , misconduct in a public office and pervert the course of justice , but of course we will keep this under review . we want to make sure that public body do what they should — that is , act transparently — and we will always consider what further step can be take . Horizon System : exoneration of sub - postmaster what step he be take to exonerate sub - postmaster who be prosecute due to error in the Post Office Horizon system . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to exonerate sub - postmaster who be convict due to error in the Post Office Horizon system . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to exonerate sub - postmaster who be convict due to error in the Post Office Horizon system . in September 2020 , a public inquiry be set up into the failing associate with the Post Office Horizon IT system and it be expect to report back later this year . in addition , over £ 160 million have already be pay out in compensation across three scheme . however , in its December 2023 letter , the independent Horizon compensation advisory board express concern that the pace of exoneration be too slow , not least because evidence have be lose and many be simply too traumatised to come forward . that be why the Prime Minister have decide to bring forward legislation to quash the relevant conviction , and the Department for Business and Trade will be announce detail shortly . these wholly exceptional circumstance have lead to this wholly exceptional course . while I welcome the Government ' s commitment to quash the wrongful conviction of sub - postmaster catch up in the Horizon scandal , I also recognise that this be a complex area of law that could even raise constitutional issue . give that some sub - postmaster have be suffer for an extremely long time , do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that any legislation should deal with these issue swiftly and avoid any further delay ? I thank my hon . friend for the careful and thoughtful way in which he address this significant issue . the judiciary and court have deal swiftly with the case before they , but the scale and circumstance of the prosecution failure mean that this demand an unprecedented response , and that be why the Prime Minister announce this major step forward in response to the Horizon scandal . we be keen to ensure that the legislation achieve its goal of bring prompt justice to all those who be wrongfully convict , follow by rapid financial redress . it be not right that wholly innocent people could potentially go to their grave with the mark and stigma of a conviction hang over they . every day we hear further revelation about the Post Office , and today ' s shocking — well , it should be shocking — BBC story state that the 2016 swift review note that the Post Office have always know about the balance transaction capability of Horizon and that the Government know in 2016 that a Deloitte investigation into all Horizon transaction be under way and that this investigation be suddenly halt after sub - postmaster begin legal action . will the Secretary of State confirm whether the Ministry of Justice be aware of this , and do he believe that that apparent non - disclosure to the inquiry be a threat to judicial freedom and independence ? in 2020 — come up to four year ago now — an independent inquiry be set up under Mr Justice Wyn Williams . that be expect to report later this year , and it will go into properly exhaustive detail about who know what and when . we be absolutely clear that there have be an egregious failure of prosecution conduct — frankly , one that bring shame on those involve — and it be absolutely right that that inquiry should get to the bottom of what take place and who know what and when . the current chief executive of the Post Office say in evidence to the Business and Trade Committee last month that , despite various audits and investigation , we still do not know the full scope of the money overclaime through Horizon , or where it go . even the auditor be unable to give a firm figure . postmaster such as my constituent Roger have suffer incredible stress and worry as well as significant financial loss , but the prospect of get to the truth on these figure still seem far off . will the Secretary of State commit to work with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade and set out a timetable for update the House on how much the Post Office take and what it do with the money , so that constituent like mine can start to get the answer and the justice that they deserve ? my heart go out to Roger and people like he . I have constituent who be affect , as I be sure everyone in this House do . we be a fair - minded nation , which be why it strike we to the core . the hon . Lady ask I to liaise with the Department for Business and Trade . of course the MOJ will do everything it properly can , but DBT be lead on this . it be also worth reflect that £ 160 million have already be pay out across the three scheme , and there be a very important , swift and robust approach of pay £ 600 , 000 to those who have their conviction quash . that be the right approach . it be exceptional , but these be exceptional circumstance . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . my right hon . and learn Friend will know that , only last week , the Court of Appeal criminal division , preside over by the Lady Chief Justice , quash in bulk a number of Horizon appeal , on the basis of a half - hour hearing . when the case get to court , the court can deal with they swiftly . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that in frame any legislation , because of the constitutional implication , it be important that we bear in mind that the failure be the failure of a prosecutor to do their duty , or perhaps the failure of the state to come to the aid of victim , but they be not the failure of the court , which always act entirely properly on the material put before they by the party at the time ? it be a failure of the party , not of the court . as always , my hon . friend get to the heart of it . this be a failure of the Post Office , which be an emanation of the state , and it be the duty of the state to put it right . the court have approach this entirely properly . the Post Office fail to discharge the solemn obligation on any prosecutor to act fairly and to comply with their obligation under section 3 of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996 to disclose material that might reasonably be consider capable of undermine the case of the prosecution , or of assist the case of the defence . when I be prosecute , the first rule be that we do not seek a conviction at all cost , which be an important principle that the Post Office fail to appreciate . I call the SNP spokesperson . whistleblower have come forward to provide information that Fujitsu be give an additional contract by the Post Office in 2013 to re - platform transaction datum that be previously hold on an external storage system that be consider to be the gold standard . it be replace by a system that make it virtually impossible to investigate financial transaction in a forensic audit . do the Justice Secretary share our concern that this decision effectively destroy evidence , prevent exactly the sort of audit trail that would exonerate those sub - postmaster who be convict ? the Department for Business and Trade be well place to answer those specific point , but I would say two thing . first , as a matter of sacred principle , if material come into a prosecutor ' s possession that might be consider capable of undermine the case of the prosecution , that material should be disclose to the defence . that be one of the thing that have be consider by Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry . what do the Post Office know , when do it know it , and what do it do with the material before it ? across the House , we want to get to the bottom of those question . community Payback Pilots what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the rapid deployment community payback pilot . it be a pleasure to respond to my first question from the hon . gentleman since his election . as part of the Government ' s antisocial behaviour action plan , community payback team be work in partnership with 11 local authority to rapidly clean up antisocial behaviour in the community . the pilot start in July 2023 , and we be in the process of analyse the outcome . initial observation point to the pilot have be successful , with thousand of hour of reparative work be do by hundred of people on probation within 48 hour of local authority notification , allow the public to see justice do . these rapid - deployment community payback scheme pilot be suppose to pave the way for the accelerated roll - out of exactly the kind of swift , transparent restorative justice that victim of crime in my constituency be desperate to see . unfortunately , I understand that , of a plan 20 , 000 hour of work , only 2 , 000 hour have be deliver by the pilot . can the Minister reveal whether that be the case ? if so , what can be learn from the clear barrier to success ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , but the clue be in the word " pilot . " these pilot be carry out in 11 area , over three month , in the run - up to Christmas , and 175 people complete around 2 , 000 hour of unpaid work . we be analyse the outcome of those pilot and , base on what that analysis say , I look forward to explore how we can roll this out more widely across the country . time spend in Cells : reoffende Rates what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the length of time that prisoner spend in their cell on reoffende rate . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the length of time that prisoner spend in their cell on reoffende rate . we know that activity such as education and training can help to give prisoner skill that they need to get a job on release , thus reduce the likelihood of reoffende . that be why we launch our new national regime model for prisoner last month . it set out core expectation for regime delivery , so that prison be get the most out of the work day and aid the rehabilitation of prisoner . of course , we be also see improve staffing number to facilitate those regime . reoffende cost £ 18 billion a year , but there be not just the financial cost but the impact on society in general , as well as on the individual . some young prisoner be still get only one hour out of their cell , so there be no time for rehabilitation — they can perhaps do a little exercise , but that be not the same . how confident be the Minister that all young prisoner will get the re - education that he have outline ? when do he think all young prisoner — if these people have to be in prison — will get proper rehabilitation and the support they need when they come out of prison to get a home , to have somewhere to stay and to go into further training ? will he please give I some reassurance that well time be come , not just for young offender but for society as a whole ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that . as she know , I have a huge amount of respect for she , and she raise a hugely important point . we have hear from the Lord Chancellor that reoffende rate have come down from 31 % to 25 % since 2010 . so we be make progress , but we want to drive they down far . she also rightly highlight the importance of purposeful activity lead to the opportunity on release for employment , accommodation and so on . that be central to the opportunity for prisoner to rehabilitate themselves . we have see significant progress make in our youth estate . the hon . Lady talk about young prisoner and rightly say that we need to go far , but we believe the national regime model that we launch in January will go a long way to do that . the additional staff we have recruit into his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service be central to do that , as they enable that regime to be put in place . however , she be absolutely right to highlight this issue . I welcome the Minister ' s acknow - ledgement that more education in prison mean cut the reoffende rate and that clear link to crime . I welcome the national regime model and will be interested to see how it play out , because I have see chronic staff shortage and sickness absence , in particular at prison such as HMP Wandsworth , which I have visit . those thing mean that prisoner be entirely miss out on any education , training and working opportunity . when will I be able to go back to HMP Wandsworth and see the increase in staff and retention that be need there ? when will the Government get a grip on the prison officer recruitment and retention crisis ? again , I have a lot of respect for the hon . Lady , but I be afraid that what she be suggest do not entirely reflect the fact . if we compare the figure for 2023 and 2022 for band 3 to 5 prison officer , we see that there be over 1 , 400 more now , which be an increase of 6 . 7 % . in hmpps , sick rate be down in the past year , when just over 12 , 500 people join and 7 , 500 left — again , that reflect an increase . we be invest in our prison officer and increase their number , and that be be reflect in retention . I pay tribute to they for the work they do ; we should be talk they up , not down . I be encourage by my right hon . friend ' s comment about the number of additional prison officer recruit . I have see many of they and the fantastic work they do , both at HMP Aylesbury and across the prison estate . will he say a little more about how we can ensure that we retain they once they have be train and they go on to the wing ? this be an incredibly important career — it be key to reduce reoffende — and prison officer deserve credit and the support of everybody in this House . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that . he be absolutely right about the importance of not just recruit new prison officer , but retain experienced one in our prison . that be why the pay deal do last year with hmpps staff be hugely important , in recognise the important work that prison officer do day in , day out . it be also reflect in the fact that the leave rate for prison officer be down in 2023 from where it be in 2022 . however , there be more to do and we will continue to do it . I call the shadow Justice Secretary . prisoner be spend up to 23 hour a day lock up in their cell as a direct result of overcrowding and the prison capacity crisis cause by this Government . however , I hear congratulation be in order follow an announcement last month , not on the Government actually deliver any of the new prison they have promise or on even get spade in the ground , but on their submit yet another planning application for the Leicestershire prison that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have already rule on once . be not about time that the Minister rename the new prison programme the no prison programme ? for a moment I think the shadow Justice Secretary be refer to her own party ' s record when in government — 7 , 500 prison place in three titan prison that fail to be build , whereas we be commit to build six new modern prison . two have be build , one be be build at the moment and two have planning permission . while prisoner be serve their sentence , they be not be allow to leave their cell , but ironically the Government be also release some of they early . despite a multitude of letter , question and even a point - blank request from the Justice Committee , the Government be refuse to tell we how many prisoner be be release early and from where . the public and Parliament have a right to know , so will the Minister finally come clean on how the early release scheme have be use so far ? if not , can he tell the House what he have to hide ? as the shadow Justice Secretary will know , my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor have make clear that in line with other statistic , for example death in custody statistic , we will publish those figure on an annual basis . I be sure my right hon . friend will agree with I that the rehabilitation of offender can be greatly assist by activity and work outdoors , in particular on farm and at horticultural establishment . will the Minister reassure I that he be committed to increase the quantity of work available outdoors and let I know what have happen to the prison estate in recent year ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of a range of purposeful activity for those in prison , from skilled industrial work in workshop to outside work . a good example mention recently on " ITV Racing " , of all thing , be about get farrier and those work in the equine world into prison — the example be a prison in Solihull — to teach prisoner about job opportunity in the equine world . there be a range of opportunity out there , and it be important that they be available to those in our custody . Crown Court Backlog what progress his Department have make on reduce the backlog of case in the Crown court . we remain committed to reduce the Crown court outstanding case load and have introduce a range of measure to achieve the same . we fund over 100 , 000 sitting day last year and plan to deliver the same again this year . we have recruit over 1 , 000 judge over all jurisdiction and plan to do the same again this year . thank to the intervention of the Lord Chancellor , we have secure £ 220 million for essential modernisation repair work over the next two year . as well as retain Nightingale court , the investment will also see 58 new courtroom . the fact be that the Crown court how have a backlog of over 65 , 000 case . if that be not bad enough , expert say the court ' capacity to deal with processing case will not keep pace with demand . do the Minister agree that that lead to too many victim unfortunately give up on our justice system ? no , I do not accept that that mean we be give up on the system . the Government continue to invest in every single lever that we can pull to increase capacity in our criminal justice system . give the additional work that the judiciary be do , the disposal rate in our Crown court be up and we be see record level of disposal , so we will start to see the criminal justice system heal , because we be still recover from covid and the Criminal Bar Association strike . I call the shadow Minister . rape and serious sexual assault case have increase to 10 . 3 % of all Crown court case and , with nearly 10 , 000 of they , they make up one in seven of the backlog . the average wait time for a trial after charge have rise to 18 month . we also know from the Criminal Bar Association that there have be a tenfold increase in adjourn case due to the fall in the number of rape and serious sexual offence prosecution or defence barrister , with the Crown Prosecution Service now employ King ' s counsel to fill the gap . add to that the many legal aid desert due to the shortage of solicitor and we have a major staffing crisis across the criminal justice system . how be that go to be fix ? first , the figure that the hon . Gentleman quote for the average time for a RASSO case be simply not true . the Government have continue to invest in ensure that RASSO case be bring forward . list be a matter for the judiciary , and they take great care to ensure that vulnerable victim be deal with expeditiously . in addition , we continue to invest in the legal aid system . the Lord Chancellor recently increase the fee to ensure that there be people able to perform RASSO case and section 28 video recording . on top of that , we continue to engage with the criminal legal aid review to see how we can continue to invest in and incentivise criminal defence barrister in the right part of the system . victim of Crime : support what step his Department be take through the criminal justice system to support victim of crime . since 2010 , we have ramp up support for victim in three main way . first , we have drive down reoffende from around 31 % to 25 % , so that few people suffer the misery of become a victim of crime in the first place . secondly , we have create new offence such as stalk , coercive and control behaviour , revenge pornography , upskirting and non - fatal strangulation , so that those who betray trust and shatter life can be hold to account . thirdly , we have quadruple victim funding , enable massive investment in resource such as independent domestic violence adviser , which be up from barely exist in 2010 to more than 900 today , and we will go far with the groundbreaking Victims and Prisoners Bill as well . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for all the sterling work that he have just outline , which be make such a huge difference to victim everywhere . I wish to talk about a case that be raise with I at an advice surgery . after see an advert on the tube , my constituent — a man of very good standing — invest in what turn out to be a fraudulent company to the tune of £ 93 , 000 . he be clearly a victim of crime and , mercifully , his bank reimburse his life saving after some challenge . he do get financial restitution , but the whole experience have wide , devastating impact . those behind the company be register in Serbia and , to the good of our knowledge , have never be bring to justice . as my constituent do not go through the full criminal justice system , may I ask how victim such as he can be support in case like this ? I thank my hon . friend for raise her constituent ' s case . fraud be a pernicious , cruel crime and it can have an appalling impact , as I know from my own experience of prosecute for the Serious Fraud Office . to support victim in recover lose fund , the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 give the Payment Systems Regulator further power to mandate reimbursement where need , and I be glad that that take place in this case . but to bring wrongdoer to justice , prosecutor , include the CPS , the Financial Conduct Authority and the SFO , regularly co - operate with their international counterpart to make arrest and secure evidence overseas so that , in appropriate case , defendant can be extradite to face trial in the UK . the other critical point be that the victim code have be expand , so that people such as her constituent can get the support they need . I would invite he , perhaps through the hon . Lady ' s good office , to look at the support that be available online . be the Secretary of State aware of a new crime that be spread throughout the north of England , include in your constituency , Mr Speaker , and in mine ? a group be prey on people who have cavity wall insulation . those people get themselves into the legal process and find the expense be so high that they have to sell their home . it be an epidemic . it be also rather like the Post Office scandal . this be an early warning of a major scandal . will the Secretary of State agree to look into this matter as it be very important , especially in the north of England ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that matter on the Floor of the House . he will understand — I know that he well appreciate this — that it be not for the Secretary of State to be order investigation , but , plainly , the matter he raise be serious . I invite the police and prosecutor to take all appropriate step to investigate it if that be what be require . joint enterprise : cost of Judicial Processes if he will make an estimate of the cost to the public purse of judicial process under joint enterprise relate to violent crime in each year since 2014 . although the Ministry of Justice collate statistic nationally on the principal criminal offence for which a perpetrator be prosecute , convict or sentence , include datum on their ethnicity , it do not collate datum on whether the crime that they commit be part of joint enterprise , so unfortunately I be unable to provide the information that the hon . Lady request . however , we be consider whether such datum could be collect as part of the common platform programme , which aim to provide a single case management system that would enable the sharing of such evidence and case information across the criminal justice system . I welcome that response , but the Minister will know that Manchester Metropolitan University have recently carry out some research into the cost of prosecute under joint enterprise . some £ 250 million be spend process joint enterprise case , and an extra £ 1 . 2 billion be spend incarcerate the just over 1 , 000 people who be convict . those be eye - water amount of money , so do the Minister agree that we need to review the doctrine of joint enterprise to ensure that only those who be responsible for significant contribution to a crime be punish for it ? there be a cost to justice . People who be find guilty of crime base on the evidence present to a court of law have be sentence , and there be a cost to their incarceration . simply put , the cost of incarcerate people be not a reason to review the law . justice : devolution of Responsibility if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of devolving responsibility for justice to the Welsh Government . the Government be clear that it be in the good interest of the people of Wales for justice to remain a reserved matter . the current arrangement work well and allow Wales to benefit from be part of a large , world - renowne justice system . devolve justice to Wales would mean lose those benefit and would be extremely expensive and complex , require the duplication of function . follow the publication last month of the final report by the independent commission on the constitutional future of Wales , the First Minister of Wales confirm unambiguously that it be the policy of the Welsh Government , and indeed of the Welsh Labour party , to support the devolution of the justice system . in pursue the devolution of the Probation Service , he say : " we will have to explore … governance … financial arrangement " and the interface between Welsh and English service . when will the Minister meet the Counsel General for Wales to discuss the devolution of justice ? if the representative for the Welsh Government wish to meet I , I be more than happy to explain why Wales be part of the English and Welsh legal system remain the preferred option for this Government . why would Wales want to leave the most successful legal service system in the world ? rape Victims : Privacy Rights what step his Department be take to protect the privacy right of rape victim in criminal justice process . what step his Department be take to protect the privacy right of rape victim in criminal justice process . it be paramount that victim come forward without fear that their privacy will be violate . that be why we be take step , through the Victims and Prisoners Bill , to create a statutory restriction that limit police request to third - party material that be necessary and proportionate , and to inform victim of why such material be be request . the Government have also ask the Law Commission to undertake a review on the use of evidence in sexual offence prosecution , and it be due to report later this year . my constituent have all her counselling record use against she in a harrowing trial that she say be bad than the crime itself . will the Victims and Prisoners Bill be sufficiently amend so that medical and social service record be not use against victim in court , and family court be not use to perpetuate such abuse against the victim , particularly with the use of the term " parental alienation " ? I be truly sorry to hear of what happen to the hon . Lady ' s constituent . I hope that I can reassure she by say that new regulation will be publish under the Victims and Prisoners Bill to create a code of practice set out the principle that the police should apply to all third - party request , include for counselling , therapy and medical note . the police will be require to complete a new request form that set out the purpose and impact of their request . the Crown Prosecution Service also have a robust case file review process to ensure that guidance on necessary and proportionate request be comply with . the CPS pre - trial therapy guideline make it crystal clear that victim must not delay therapy for criminal investigation and prosecution . recently , I be able to visit the gwent rape investigation unit and see what an excellent job the police officer there be do . however , can the Minister explain why the Government think it be appropriate to boast about the so - call progress on the rape review when the proportion of case be charge have halve since 2016 , and the key adviser quit because of the lack of drive to improve outcome for victim ? I have also hear very good report of the work that gwent police be do , so I be glad to hear what the hon . Lady say . I must push back very slightly on what have happen since we launch the end - to - end rape review . we be prosecute more rape case than we be in 2010 . conviction rate be high , and perpetrator be go to prison for almost 50 % long than they be in 2010 ; the average sentence increase from six and a half year to nine and a half year . I accept that the last independent adviser to the rape review go , but last week we announce the appointment of Professor Katrin Hohl , a legal academic who pioneer Operation Soteria , which I think every Member of this House agree have transform the way in which police investigate and prosecute rape , and be lead to well criminal justice outcome for victim . non - disclosure Agreements what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the use of non - disclosure agreement in judicial process . non - disclosure agreement can not prevent any disclosure that be require or protect by law ; nor can they preclude an individual from assert statutory right . the court and judiciary apply the law in relation to nda as appropriate in individual case and , where necessary , determine whether or not they should be enforceable . last year , the Legal Services Board state that incident of misconduct by lawyer deal with non - disclosure agreement be a " cause for concern " , and that there be a strong case for a strengthened and harmonise regulatory approach . do the Minister agree that there be a need for strong regulation in this area , and will he support the Bill table by my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , which would end the misuse of non - disclosure agreement in the workplace ? I be more than happy to have a discussion with the hon . Lady , but my understanding be that the Solicitors Regulation Authority have already publish a warning notice remind solicitor and law firm that potential professional misconduct by a person or a firm should be report to the regulator . if she believe that there be still gap in that warning notice , or that more need to be do , I be more than happy to have a meeting . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last Justice question , I have meet with the family of those kill by Valdo Calocane : Barnaby Webber , Grace o ' Malley - Kumar and Ian Coates . they deserve answer , and a series of review be take place , include by the Attorney General , on refer the sentence in that case to the Court of Appeal . we have announce an early legal advice pilot to help family agree child arrangement quickly . I have visit Leeds to see how £ 6 million be be spend to roll out state - of - the - art courtroom as part of our £ 220 million investment in the court estate . I have travel to the USA to meet my counterpart to discuss how Russia can be hold financially and legally to account , and I be fit with a gps tag to experience for myself how effective modern technology be in hold offender and Justice Secretaries to account — a constant physical reminder that debt to society must be repay , court order must be observe , and transgressor face the very real risk of the clang of a prison gate . [ hon . member : " do you have it on now ? " ] no , I do not . as my right hon . and learn Friend just mention , he spend a day wear a gps tag , along with Jack Elsom from the Sun . could he outline what he learn from that experience , and say whether he think GPS tag be a robust and effective mean of monitor and punish low - level offender ? will he reveal to the House who else from the Lobby be on his list to be tag ? I remind member that these be topical question . I thank my hon . friend for his question . there be a serious point here : our modern GPS tag act as a constant physical reminder that debt to society must be repay and that breach of a court order will be detect , so that a person who step over the line , literally or metaphorically , and enter an area from which he be bar know that he be liable to be return to court and send to prison . we could put the entire Lobby on alcohol tag , but I think that would deal a fatal blow to the UK drink industry . I call the shadow Minister . I recently visit Cookham Wood young offender institution . there , officer tell I about the challenge they face , include a staffing shortage and shocking recruitment issue , which have lead to rise level of violence . can the Minister say when he last visit Cookham Wood , and why this Government continue to be unable to solve those crucial problem ? I have visit Cookham Wood . I can not remember the precise date , but the really important statistic to note be that in the period up to the end of September last year , we recruit an additional 1 , 400 prison officer . the number be go up , and the attrition rate be go down . [ interruption . ] hold on . that be because we have introduce measure such as the new colleague mentor scheme , roll out £ 100 million on security and so on . we recognise that the safety of our prison be in large measure down to the quality and quantity of our staff , and we be improve on both count . there be an interesting debate in the House of Lords last night , in which Lord Hoffmann confirm my understanding that the European Court of Human Rights be wrong to impose a rule 39 injunction to stop flight to Rwanda , and that we could safely ignore such an injunction . will the Secretary of State confirm that that be his understanding of the law , and if we get the Bill through Parliament and have flight on the ground , will he ignore such an injunction ? and would that not be a good issue on which to fight the election ? order . Sir Edward , you should know well . this be topical . you be a member of the Panel of Chairs as well ; you be mean to set an example , not abuse your position . I do not have the advantage of have listen to Lord Hoffmann , but we do not think that the Strasbourg Court will need to intervene , give that our domestic court will have carefully assess whether anyone we intend to remove to Rwanda would suffer serious and irreversible harm . I call the SNP spokesperson . Unison , of which I be a proud member , have criticise Government plan to reintroduce employment tribunal fee , on the ground that the " only people who would benefit from their reintroduction be unscrupulous boss " . the Resolution Foundation have find that the lowest - pay worker be least likely to bring a claim , so how can the Justice Secretary defend plan to reintroduce employment tribunal fee , which will disproportionately affect those on low wage and present an obstacle to justice for those who need it most ? the £ 55 claim issue fee be modest , and this be completely different from the previous fee scheme , so I simply do not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation . I be quite happy to defend that small , reasonable fee as necessary to help defray the cost of our system . what percentage of the backlog in Crown court case be due to foreign national offender , and what have be do to reduce that ? datum on foreign national offender be collect at the point when an individual become an offender — in other word , at the point of conviction — but in addition , the Ministry of Justice record the number in custody await trial who be fno , and that stand at approximately 3 , 300 . on drive the figure down , the Home Office be work to increase take - up of conditional caution , which lead to fno be expel from the UK , in place of prosecution , in appropriate case . the Vagrancy Act 1824 be 200 year old this year . yes , it be supposedly repeal in 2022 , but it remain in force . the Criminal Justice Bill , unamended , represent a genuine danger to rough sleeper everywhere . when will Conservative member stop this madness , and when will we see that 200 - year - old piece of legislation take off the book ? I think the hon . Lady for her question . the Criminal Justice Bill deal with repeal provision for the Vagrancy Act , and we be bring the Bill back on Report with more on rough sleeping . I welcome the fact that 20 Nightingale courtroom have be set up around the country to boost capacity , but none of they appear to be in the east of England . I know we be all well behave in the east , but have we be forget ? I can reassure my hon . friend that we would not dream of forget about he . we have see an increase , particularly on special educational need and disability , of over 300 % in receipt , and with the increase number of judge and panel member , we be see a 37 % increase in disposal this year . we be try to address the issue of SEND with the Department for Education , and if my hon . friend think there be a problem in this area , I be more than happy to meet he to discuss it . I have hear the Minister defend the reintroduction of employment tribunal fee , but the last time the Government bring they in , there be a 70 % drop in application . how many people will be deny access to justice this time ? the hon . Gentleman be compare apple with orange . the two fee be completely different , in term of quantum . a £ 55 claim issue fee be a small contribution towards the tribunal , which cost we £ 80 million a year to run . I do not think that that be unreasonable . this week , we celebrate the fifth anniversary of my civil Partnerships , Marriages and death ( Registration etc ) Act 2019 complete its parliamentary stage , but it be also the fifth anniversary of the Government take no action to enforce clause 4 , which give coroner the power to investigate stillbirth . there have be some progress : on 8 December , after 56 week , they have produce the result of that consultation , but there have be no Government response . when will we have a Government response , and what be the Government ' s problem with get on with something that be overwhelmingly support ? I appreciate that my hon . friend be increasingly agitated about the implementation of aspect of the Bill ; however , the consultation be not conclusive , and the stillbirth landscape have change . those issue have to be address if the Bill be to be introduce correctly . accord to a report produce by the National Audit Office last week , housing legal aid be out of reach for many people who be struggle to keep a roof over their head . countless people face the threat of eviction and repossession have recently contact I for help . with the cost of live crisis and rise interest rate , it be crucial that people can access legal help with their housing issue . what be the Minister do to ensure that housing legal aid be available to those who can not afford legal help ? we be invest an initial £ 10 million to make sure that legal aid be available for exactly those problem . under the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 , there be a solemn duty on prison governor to prepare ex - offender for life outside prison . seven year on from the introduction of that duty , they be still not do what they be require to do . we want reoffende end , and if people be prepare properly for when they leave prison , we increase the chance of prevent reoffende . what action be my right hon . and learn Friend take on this ? my hon . friend have do spectacular work on this issue . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service publish a policy framework set out the step prison and probation service must take to meet their duty to refer those at risk of homelessness . I be read it this morning , and it contain template referral form — and many other aid — that be to be fill out at prescribe point in the prisoner journey . governor be now hold to account , as my hon . Friend rightly indicate , for their record on prepare prisoner for life post release , which be why I be able to say that in 2022 - 23 , some 86 % of prisoner be accommodate on the first night of release . that be up from 80 % in 2019 . I know that question be on the Order Paper to be take before topical , but if the Justice Secretary could shorten his answer to make sure everyone have time in topical , that would help I and other . last week , I visit ida — Independent Domestic Abuse Services — which be an outstanding organisation support survivor of domestic and sexual violence . they highlight that parent ' fear of have their child remove be prevent victim from present a case in full , and be prevent justice . how will the Minister ensure that power imbalance in the family court be address ? I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s question . she will know how much we be do on victim support , particularly in term of sexual and domestic abuse . I would like to speak to she about this issue , and about parental responsibility in the family court , so I think we should have a meeting . I ask she to write to my office after question to arrange it . last week , Colin Pitchfork , the double child rapist and murderer , successfully apply for a reconsideration of the Parole Board ' s decision not to release he , on the ground that the decision be irrational . I have issue a survey across my South Leicestershire constituency on Parole Board reform . will the Secretary of State meet I urgently to discuss the Parole Board rule , as amend in 2019 ? I certainly will meet my hon . friend . he have be assiduous for many year in raise this matter on behalf of his constituent . the Parole Board do an exceptionally good job . there be two case in which decision appear to have be overturn because they be irrational , and that be why I be meet the Parole Board tomorrow . the Justice Secretary mention the duty of candour that he impose on the police . have he consider legislate to introduce the same for all public body ? I can say that we want to extend that duty to healthcare setting , because we do not want health professional closing rank when something go wrong . it be important to say that since Hillsborough there have be so many change , include through the Inquiries Act 2005 , which mean that there can be criminal liability for those who do not do what the hon . Gentleman and I must think be a matter of common sense , which be to tell the truth . wedding expert at Hitched say that independent celebrant be the big trend for couple get marry this year , and with the Church , registrar and humanist all provide additional option , it be about time that we update the marriage law , which be from 1836 . will the Government publish a substantive response to the Law Commission ' s 2022 report on wedding reform ? as someone who benefit from the last wedding reform on equal marriage , I can say that this Government be entirely committed to ensure that we report as fast as possible on the Law Commission ' s review . if my hon . friend would like to meet my noble Friend Lord Bellamy to discuss it far , we can make that happen . the backlog of asylum and immigration tribunal case have soar from 35 , 400 to 41 , 500 in a month — a result , no doubt , of the Home Office push through decision at the end of last year to clear its previous backlog . what be the Minister do to tackle this new backlog that they have create ? we be increase fee for legal aid practitioner . we have see a massive increase in case go through the system , and that be why we be invest to make sure that legal representation be available . give that the exist prison in Buckinghamshire can not recruit to fill staffing vacancy , where do the Ministry of Justice think it will magic up staff and prison officer for the mega - prison that it now have plan permission for in my constituency ? my hon . friend be a champion of his constituent . while we may disagree on this issue , I know that he speak for a lot of his constituent , and he do so vocally in this House . we have highlight the increase of 1 , 400 in the number of prison officer . we be confident that we can staff all the new prison and that they be necessary to meet our obligation . what can I do to change the Secretary of State ' s view on joint enterprise ? have he read Lord Finkelstein ' s recent and very good article in the Times ? please can the Minister have an open mind and look at it again ? there be more than 1 , 000 young man in prison on long sentence . joint enterprise be there to ensure that those who act as the burglary lookout , those who provide the weapon in a murder and those who drive the getaway vehicle do not escape the consequence of their crime , which shatter live . it be already the case , as in the case of Jogee , that the person must have help or encourage the commission of the offence and intend to do so . if the Labour party ' s position be that such people should escape culpability , it should say so . our advice on this side of the House be clear : do not commit crime . Immigration Rules and Border Security ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if he will make a statement on change to UK immigration rule and the security of the UK ' s border . the security of the UK border be a top priority for I , the Home Secretary and the Home Office . everything we do in this area be design to reduce risk to this country and its citizen . Border Force perform check on 100 % of schedule passenger arrive in the UK and risk - base intelligence - lead check on general aviation . it be deeply disturbing that information that have no basis in fact be leak by the independent chief inspector to a national newspaper before the Home Office have the chance to respond . we be urgently investigate this breach of confidential information in full in the normal way . move to yesterday ' s change to the immigration rule , since the launch of our Ukraine scheme the UK have offer or extend sanctuary to more than 280 , 000 Ukrainians , thank to the immense generosity of the british public . I know that colleague across the House be grateful for all the work that have be go on in community to facilitate that support . almost two year on from the start of the conflict , the UK Government ' s commitment to the ukrainian cause remain undimmed . it be right that we continue to adapt and develop our visa route to ensure that they keep pace with the rapidly shift situation in Ukraine . we must ensure that they remain as efficient and sustainable as possible , while provide stability for those we have welcome to the UK and those who still need our sanctuary . ukrainian national who may have previously be eligible to apply to come to the UK under the Ukraine family scheme will remain eligible to apply for the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme . separately , the Government remain wholeheartedly committed to reduce level of legal migration . measure to curb immigration abuse and far reduce net migration be be implement , range from salary increase for work and family visa to reform the shortage occupation list , remove the right for overseas care worker to bring dependant , and require care provider to be register with the Care Quality Commission before hire overseas carer . the rule change outline yesterday , which relate to the care sector , pave the way for those measure to take effect . it have be report today that hundred of high - risk private flight have land in the UK without proper border security check have be do . if the Minister dispute the figure , will he tell we the true one now ? be all the high - risk private flight check or not ? minister have be warn repeatedly about border security risk on private flight . the Prime Minister may think it be just all his own mate , but there be risk from organised crime , money laundering , drug and weapon smuggling , traffic , and even terrorism . there have be a 75 % drop in class a drug border seizure . there have be a 39 % drop in firearm seizure . criminal gang be still organise dangerous boat crossing . there have also be repeat failure in security check at Western Jet Foil ; a 30 % drop in foreign national offender removal ; a 50 % drop in fail asylum seeker removal ; and new revelation of visa failure in the Home Office , which issue 275 visa to a care home that do not even exist . instead of get a grip , what be the Minister ' s response ? it be just to sack the border inspector and sit on his report , as well as change the rule to stop ukrainian family member from come here . what message of solidarity do that send to a country we be suppose to be support in the face of russian aggression ? will the Minister now publish all the outstanding inspector ' s report ? be it true that no inspector will be in place for the next six month ? will he tell we the key border security fact ? have all high - risk private flight be meet and check in the last year ? Home Office Ministers promise I in this Chamber that that would happen 13 year ago . if not , will he tell we how many high - risk flight — maybe involve dangerous people and weapon — have be allow into the country without proper border security check ? the Conservatives have break the asylum system , bust the Home Office budget , badly undermine Britain ' s border security and put our country ' s security at risk . will they ever get a grip ? I be very disappointed with the right hon . Lady ' s response on the certainty provide by yesterday ' s announcement on Ukraine . just before the February recess , we have a good debate involve colleague from across the House where there be call for certainty on the future of those visa scheme . the Government have come forward and provide that assurance about where we go from here . of course , the first of those visa do not expire until 2025 . if we add on the 18 - month period , that be an additional two and a half year of certainty for individual from the here and now , which I think be very welcome . there will continue to be an in - country and out - of - country approach . we of course engage with our ukrainian friend and ally and will support they in any way we can . we be ahead of the curve internationally in give that assurance . the right hon . Lady should be on the front foot in welcome that , because it be good , positive news . we will publish the report by the independent chief inspector of border and immigration and our response to they . that will happen soon . on the right hon . Lady ' s question about the flight at London City airport and the information put in the public domain , the Home Office categorically reject the claim by David Neal . Mr Neal ' s report on general aviation border check at London City airport be submit last week and undergo fact check , as be standard practice . Mr Neal be make aware of a specific issue with the recording of datum at London City airport that mean that a large proportion of flight record as high risk should have be reclassify as low risk . it be disappointing that he have choose to put mislead datum into the public domain . the Home Office ' s priority be to deliver a safe and secure border , and we will never compromise on that . when notify , we clear 100 % of high - risk general aviation flight either remotely or in person , in accordance with the GA guidance , and we be commit to respond effectively , use an intelligence - lead approach , as well as to work thoroughly with the wide law enforcement community . the right hon . Lady will appreciate that there be a report on this issue . we will respond to the inspector ' s report , and that response will have answer to the substantive point pose in it . we will deal with it in entirely the proper way . it be rather ironic that the right hon . Lady talk about the opposition ' s stance on the security of our border , because she quite happily vote against the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 when we legislate to introduce electronic travel authorisation , which be critical to the future of our border security and allow great automation for passenger . they improve the passenger experience at the border while be robust on border security . [ interruption . ] she be chuntere away , but she vote against those important measure . when it come to dangerous foreign criminal on our street , we hear those on the Opposition Benches oppose removal flight — the Leader of the Opposition and other have take that stance . they would allow dangerous criminal and dangerous individual to be on the street of the United Kingdom . this Government have a credible plan to stop the small boat crossing of the channel and the risk that they present to our security , as well as the wide criminality . again , the right hon . Lady have oppose all those step . we have a plan and we be work through it . that be the position and it be clear for all to see . either I misheard , or the suggestion by the Opposition that the measure the Minister have introduce will prevent ukrainian family member from come to Britain be deeply untrue and highly irresponsible , isn ' t it ? my right hon . friend summarise the situation neatly . there will continue to be an in - country opportunity for people to apply to extend their visa . through the Homes for Ukraine scheme , Ukrainians will still be able to come to the UK to access the sanctuary that we proudly support . we have see community across the country do an enormous amount of positive , welcome work to support that national effort . any suggestion that that will not be the case move forward be wrong — it be deliberate scaremongering and people should stop it . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . there be a bitter irony in the UK Government make change to health and social care visa — a sector that be cry out for people — that will make it more difficult for people to come and look after our love one . they say , " come and look after our love one , but you can ' t bring your own . " how utterly heartless . the sector be dominate by woman , who be more likely to have child with they . what equality impact assessment have the Minister carry out on these very poor plan ? what advice be he take from the Migration Advisory Committee ? this be a crisis of the Government ' s make . the committee encourage the Government to pay people in the health and social care sector more and commend Scotland , which have less reliance on people come in because we have a workforce strategy and we pay care worker the real living wage . will he do the same ? Saturday 24 February mark two year since the escalation of russian aggression in Ukraine — two year long than any of we would have want . we be appalled that this week the UK Government have make it more difficult for Ukrainians to seek sanctuary here by close the Ukraine family scheme with immediate effect at 3 pm yesterday , with absolutely no notice . the Minister talk of an 18 - month extension , but for new application that have be reduce from year . those who hold visa now can not sponsor , so the wife who want to bring injured husband to live here presumably can no long do so . how can he say that be fair ? how can this Government say " Slava Ukraini " while close the door to those in need ? to deal with the latter point first , that be not the case . there continue to be a route for Ukrainians to come to the United Kingdom . it be arguably a more effective route to facilitate sanctuary for people , with all the enhance check and support that come with the Homes for Ukraine route . there be the ability for people who be here in the UK to sustain and extend their sanctuary . the hon . Lady should welcome that ; she be involve in the Westminster Hall debate before the recess , as be I . I be proud of the Government ' s work to support community to facilitate that sanctuary . we will continue to be front footed and forward lean when it come to do so , because it be morally critical that we be at the forefront and be give people that certainty , way ahead of our international ally . again , she should welcome that . when it come to care worker , as I have say on many occasion , the current situation for dependant be disproportionate . we see 120 , 000 dependant come with 100 , 000 care worker . that be not sustainable in the long term . that be why we be take forward these measure . the hon . Lady mention specifically the Migration Advisory Committee , which have consistently say that migration be not the answer to workforce shortage in the social care sector . that be why the Government have invest £ 7 . 5 billion to support the strategy for social care workforce development and to boost capacity in social care , include through retention of the dedicated workforce already undertake these vital role . as a former Minister for disabled People at the Department for Work and Pensions , I can also say that I firmly back the work the Government be do to support more people domestically into work through the comprehensive back to work plan . the hon . Lady should support those effort . we be put real resourcing behind that — that should be our first port of call . I welcome the news that the ukrainian visa scheme have be extend by 18 month ; that be very generous . could the Minister confirm that while there be a war in Ukraine and while it be unsafe for these family to return , they will have a home in this country ? I know that my hon . friend care deeply about provide that sanctuary for our ukrainian friend , as do I , colleague across Government and , I would argue , Members across this House . we be all incredibly move by what we have see in our community , with people rally behind those Ukrainians to support they and to provide that warm welcome . we will continue to sustain that effort , which we do in partnership with the Ukrainian Government ; we regularly discuss these matter with they . of course , we will continue to sustain that sanctuary for the duration of this invasion . we be firmly on the side of the Ukrainians in win this war . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . accountability and oversight be critical to the effective management of UK border security . the Home Affairs Committee have repeatedly question the Government about the delay in the Home Office publish the chief inspector ' s report — I understand there be now 15 report outstanding . we be also concerned as the chief inspector be the statutory body , and there be no deputy or provision for the institution to exist without the chief inspector in post . with David Neal leave at the end of March , will the Minister update the House on what have happen to the recruitment process that end in December ? when will the Home Affairs Committee get the pre - appointment hearing that we be entitle to have for the new chief inspector ? I think the Chairman of the Committee will appreciate that it would not be appropriate for I to comment on appointment - relate matter , but we will follow the proper process in appoint a chief inspector of border and immigration . the shadow Home Secretary also ask about the laying before Parliament of the Government ' s response to the report ; as I say in response to that question , it will happen soon . People who want to work in our care sector from other country be welcome to do so where it be appropriate . however , under the current model , many people be pay thousand of pound to agent to contact care home owner in this country who , even if there be no vacancy , will allow people to come here and send they off to work in supermarket or other area . the pay then go back to the agent — the individual do not even get the pay . will the Minister take measure to combat what be clearly a criminal conspiracy and prevent it from happen ? People who want to come and work here be be exploit ruthlessly . where we see abuse of our migration route , we will root that out and deal with it robustly . that be one of the reason the Care Quality Commission accreditation angle have be such an important part of the package of measure we be take forward , ensure that the role people come here to fulfil be credible , real job in these workplace . we think it be right that there be a well audit trail for those appointment , not least for the very reason my hon . friend highlight — to minimise the risk of people be exploit , cheat and sell a fake prospectus for what they be sign up to . that can not be right . it be right that we as a Government take a robust posture over it . tapadh leibh , Mr Speaker , and thank you for take this urgent question . as you know , I table something similar after the BBC and the Guardian report that the family unification route for ukrainian family have be unexpectedly close . I warn the Government against such mean - mindedness . the UK Government be the meanest - minded in Europe at the outbreak of the ukrainian war , which cause a lot of work for civil servant , for the Government themselves , and for mp — all unnecessarily . most importantly , it cause angst for family in Na h - Eileanan an Iar and elsewhere , and concern and worry for those who want to come to the island and elsewhere . why ? I would ask they to think again . can the Minister confirm exactly what he have do ? I have a feeling he be be economical with clarity here . be the BBC and the Guardian wrong in what they have report ? the position , very clearly , be that we have arguably be the most generous with the approach we have adopt to provide sanctuary to our ukrainian friend . there will continue to be an out - of - country route through the Homes for Ukraine scheme to enable people to come here , as well as the visa extension . as I say , we be get on the front foot early than other in provide certainty and in term of the length of those visa . those be measure to be welcome , not traduce . there be a certain irony about Opposition Members go on about border security , when a lot of they try to prevent a load of convict criminal from be deport . I welcome the income threshold go up for get visa and the change for social care worker , too . I have be very concerned that other country have produce evidence about how that route be abuse and it be right that we clamp down on dependant come here . on the welcome change to net legal migration , will the Minister provide the evidence and datum soon to show the public that it be finally head in the right direction and that they be be hear ? I be incredibly concerned that if mainstream party , such as ourselves , do not get it and show the public that we get it on migration , it will fuel the extreme . my hon . friend speak with real passion and I know that people in Ipswich feel very strongly about this issue . that be why , as a Government , we have a credible plan to bring the number down . we believe the inflow will be reduce by 300 , 000 , take into account the change we be deliver , relative to the year prior . on his request on what we can do to report around that and provide information about the progress we be make , that be something I be consider . so , when do the Minister expect the next independent chief inspector of border and immigration to take up the post ? we will follow the proper process to make an appointment . it be obviously right that we help those in Ukraine who urgently need our help , but most people in Stoke - on - Trent and wide north Staffordshire think that the net migration figure have be unacceptably high , and that that have put significant pressure on our local service . do my hon . friend the Minister agree with I that it be right that those who come here and use service but have not contribute to their cost should face high visa and nationality fee ? my hon . friend be right to touch on the general feeling in Stoke - on - Trent about the net migration situation . that be why we be take action . the Government feel that the border and migration system cost we charge people to access those service should reflect the cost we incur . it should not fall to the UK taxpayer to pick up those cost ; it should be the individual who avail themselves of those service who cover their cost . we continue to work towards that in great detail . aviation have be consistently flag as a danger to national security . do the Minister agree that the failure to check those arrive in the UK that way be put the United Kingdom at risk ? I refer the hon . Lady to what I say in relation to the shadow Home Secretary ' s early contribution and the question she ask on that issue . we treat that subject with utmost seriousness . we will , of course , respond to the ICIBI report in a proper and thorough way , have consider the point it raise and ensure that proper fact - checking be carry out for the reason I have touch on . if the purpose of yesterday ' s announcement be to provide some reassurance to ukrainian citizen who have seek refuge in the UK , why be the government force they to go through yet another application ? every Member of this House will have experience the problem support the initial application : there will be delay ; different family member will get confirmation at different time ; and child will be drop off by mistake , cause great distress . my question to the Minister be this . should UKVI not be focus on its exist backlog , rather than add unnecessary process to its workload and distress ukrainian family who be now our constituent and live in the United Kingdom ? I disagree with the hon . and learn Lady . we think this be an appropriate approach to extend the visa . it be right and proper that there be a proper process around that , and there be obviously reason why visa be handle in this particular way . safeguard concern come into all these matter , include extension , and that be why we will take the approach we take . I want it to be as light - touch as possible . I want it to be as easy as possible . all parliamentarian in this House should be provide reassurance today that the ukrainian people in our country access sanctuary will continue to be able to do so . I would argue that that be the responsibility of all of we as leader in our country . a lot of people in this country , include my constituent , will be amazed that in the week of Navalny ' s murder by Putin and the tough time that the Ukrainians be face against russian reinforcement , the Government have announce restriction on ukrainian family come here . I have campaign for a long time , because so many wealthy russian plutocrat have be fly into this country on small private aircraft and helicopter for a long time . I have ask question about that . perhaps we should ask Boris Johnson ' s friend in the other place , Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia , what he know about it . the fact be that we be provide the certainty that member across the House have be seek for the future of the Ukraine scheme . I do not think the hon . Gentleman be in the debate we have prior to the February recess . I would argue that the House speak with one voice , say that we need to afford sanctuary for long , recognise that the war remain ongoing but that the ukrainian people continue to have our firm backing in their fight against russian aggression . that be precisely what we have do through this announcement . I reject his characterisation of the situation . the message need to go out that Ukrainians who be here will continue to be able to have that sanctuary in the year ahead . family in all our constituency , include East Renfrewshire , rely on the skill and compassion of those who work in the care sector . the chief executive of Scottish Care , Donald Macaskill , yesterday describe the Government ' s plan to ban overseas care worker from bring dependant as " shameful and damaging " , say : " treat international colleague in this manner be contemptible . " he be right , isn ' t he ? there will continue to be an opportunity for international recruitment for care purpose , but we can not have a situation where 120 , 000 dependant come with 100 , 000 visa holder . that be not justifiable . that be not acceptable . that be why we be take the approach we be take . there will in future need to be a blend of approach to recruitment . I also happen to think it be right that we should strain every sinew to support people in this country to take on these role with the proper skill , and that be precisely what the back to work plan do . close the ukrainian family scheme almost two year to the day since Putin ' s illegal war begin be particularly cruel . the Government speak of a rationalisation of the scheme , but what we really need be further measure to support family reunification . give the change , what reassurance can the Government give to those on these scheme that they will be able to bring family member to the UK ? we always keep under review the offer we have as part of the Ukraine scheme and that will continue to be the case , but I reiterate the point that what we have do through this package of change in its entirety be to sustain an out - of - country route to enable Ukrainians to come to the UK to seek sanctuary , while give certainty ahead of many other country , include European Union country with which the hon . Lady have an affinity . we have get ahead of the curve and provide certainty around sanctuary in a way that I think people in this country want to see . the change the Government keep make to the ukrainian scheme have unfortunately result in far too many Ukrainians become homeless . when will the Minister finally , as pledge by his predecessor , meet Glasgow Members of Parliament to discuss how Home Office policy be make refugee homeless in the city of Glasgow ? in fact , the announcement have provide real certainty about the future of the Ukraine scheme at an early stage , and we be ahead of the curve internationally . the hon . Gentleman know I well , and we have always have a constructive work relationship . I be very willing to meet he to discuss the issue of asylum accommodation and support for refugee in Glasgow , and I know that my colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities who lead on the accommodation side of the Ukraine scheme would also be happy to engage with he . I thank the Minister for all his helpful answer . in the context of the open border , may I ask what step have be take to ensure that Northern Ireland do not become the back door to the rest of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise that point . as he have recognise , we must ensure that our approach to border security be adopt properly throughout the United Kingdom . I be pleased to be able to have a constructive meeting about the future of the Ukraine scheme with the new Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland last week , as part of the conversation that be take place with the devolved government . I tell she that I would be very willing to meet she again , and I be delighted to see she in her place and take on those responsibility . I be sure that these be matter that she will want to discuss . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will be aware that the Northern Ireland Assembly be restore two week ago . during the period when it be not sit , member of the Legislative Assembly be not fulfil the full range of their function , and the Secretary of State reduce their salary . I write to the Leader of the House last week about a matter of which you may well also be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker : the matter of the abstentionist Sinn F é in MPs who have not fulfil the full range of their own function , but have receive million of pound in representative money over not two but 22 year . while they receive no salary from the House , the money that they do receive be allocate on the same basis as short money , namely to assist Opposition party with such process as scrutiny and preparation for debate , in none of which Sinn F é in participate . I just wish to ascertain , Madam Deputy Speaker , whether the Leader of the House , have receive my letter , have as yet indicate her intention of table a motion allow we to discuss this matter . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order and for give I notice of it . I have have no indication that the Government intend to table a motion on this matter , and I believe that Mr Speaker have have no such indication either . however , the hon . Gentleman will have an opportunity to ask the Leader of the House a question on Thursday when she have announce the forthcoming business . I hope that that be helpful ; I think that that be the direction in which he should go . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be not something that have happen in the last while ; as we have just hear from my hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) , it have be go on for a number of year . representation have be make to the Government and to the Minister responsible on numerous occasion , so it be disappointing that my hon . friend have have to bring the matter up yet again today . be it not time for the Minister to come to the House , make a statement and get this matter sort out ? I do not think there be much that I can add to what I say early , but I be confident that those on the Treasury Bench and the whip have hear what both hon . gentleman have to say , and I be sure that they will be report back . I urge the hon . gentleman to take the matter up on Thursday , when the Leader of the House will be here . broadcasting ( Listed Sporting Events ) ( Scotland ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to expand the list of sporting event that must be make available for broadcast by free - to - air television channel to include all qualifying match play by the Scotland man ' s and woman ' s national football team in the World Cup and the UEFA European Football Championship ; and for connected purpose . like many people throughout the United Kingdom , I look forward to watch the european football final in June . not just Scotland but England , and hopefully Wales too , will be there if they win their qualifi . I be fortunate enough to attend the Scotland game when the competition be hold in England in 1996 , as well as go to France for the World Cup in 1998 . Scotland be my team . they represent our nation , and Steve Clarke and his lad have do we proud . we can dream of win the competition , but in reality I shall be happy with our qualifying from the group . we have falter and fail to do that before — sometimes through bad luck , although at other time it have be self - inflict — but in Andy Robertson , John McGinn , Scott McTominay and other we have a squad who be skilled and determined as well as a canny manager . the Tartan Army who be go to Germany will enjoy the spectacle , while other , include I , will simply watch the game on television . that , after all , be how most people watch their national team . go to the game be either too difficult or too expensive , or else there be simply insufficient capacity for all to attend , so it be at home , on their tv screen , that most people follow their team . for quite some time , however , that have not be the case for Scotland fan in the qualifying match for this tournament or the qualifying match for international competition , which be why this Bill be necessary . like the World cup final , the Euro final be available on free - to - view channel — that be specify by law — but Scotland qualifying match be not protect . they have be available only through Viaplay , a swedish medium company , and at a cost of £ 180 per annum . in these tough financial time , that be a cost that many can not afford , no matter how much they would like to watch the game . it be a poll tax on Scots watch their national team . the qualifying game — a number of which be enthral , with win at home against Spain and away against Norway , be not available to view for many people other than those fortunate enough to be able to go to the match itself or able to pay for Viaplay . that be as unfair and unjust as a refereeing error or VAR review which punish your team . it have mean that scot fan have miss out on the well - earn success of their team . even worse , when these Euro final be past and the qualifier for the World cup in north America begin , scot will again be deprive of the opportunity to watch their team on free - to - air tv . the game go on as another competition beckon , but many scot be exclude from watch their team ' s journey , and that be neither right nor fair . it be not the norm in Europe , where only seven country include Scotland and Northern Ireland be in this situation ; nor be it the case in England , where qualifying game have be free to air on ITV or Channel 4 since 2018 . even in Wales , where right to the national team ' s qualifying fixture be also sell to viaplay in 2022 , access be available free to air on S4C . the charging for view extend from the major competition even to friendly fixture . while they may lack the same bite as the competitive game , many wish to see their hero perform or new star be give an opportunity , but the four friendly fixture arrange for Scotland ' s warm - up for Germany be all to be behind a pay wall on Viaplay , so even these non - competitive fixture will be deny to many scottish fan . meanwhile , England ' s warm - up will be broadcast free to view on Channel 4 . the anomaly between Scotland and England international match extend beyond the man ' s international team . for the woman ' s game , ITV have the right to the english national team , have recently take over from the BBC . Scotland game be show on BBC Alba , a channel I know and enjoy but which , although free to view , have neither the reach nor the resource of the big channel . indeed , I have see Scottish and english fixture go head to head on the BBC and BBC Alba . why be there pan - UK coverage of the England game , but restrict access to the scottish one ? similarly , the BBC hold the right to England under - 21 international while Scotland ' s be leave to the Scottish Football Association website , which show that it be not just in respect of the man ' s team but across gender and age that scot be be deprive of the right to watch their national team . those fixture also matter to fan . the scottish football press be once describe as fan with typewriter ; now it seem to be the UK broadcaster who be fan with tv station , but while the scottish press support the scottish team , the UK broadcaster only seem to support England . UK broadcaster be reveal themselves not as UK television outlet , but as Team England only . that be happen whether we be talk about the state - fund BBC , publicly own Channel 4 , or the commercial ITV or STV channel that have broadcast obligation beyond the border . some may blame the Scottish Football Association , which sell the right to viaplay . let I say at the outset that I do not hold the SFA responsible ; culpability rest with broadcaster , who have not just right but duty , and who be fail Scotland . the SFA have a duty to the game in Scotland . that responsibility run from the grassroot and football simply be a game to be enjoy by youngster , through develop pathway for people to continue play at whatever age or standard , and on to those enter into the professional rank and , ultimately , the pinnacle of the national team . the SFA be also require to nurture and develop not just the man ' s game , but the grow woman ' s game and football among people of different age and capacity . the man ' s and woman ' s international team be the pinnacle , but the SFA ' s remit cover all . all that come at a cost , however , and the SFA be require to fund it . money be tight for association , as it be for individual . broadcast money that apply in nation such as Ireland when Premier League game south of the border be show be deny to Scotland . the reason be that the UK be class as one broadcasting entity and international football divergence be of no relevance . hence a cash - strap SFA need to maximise income , and the right to show the national team ' fixture be its major asset . viaplay offer more . it be something the SFA be require to do to promote the game from grassroot to international team . what about broadcaster ? why can the BBC , Channel 4 and ITV all have budget to pay for England game , but not for scottish one ? it be not that the SFA be seek more than the fa — quite the opposite . the view right fee for Scotland match be significantly low than for England match , just as transfer fee in the scottish Premier Leagues be low than those in the English Premier League . but while UK broadcaster be prepared to pay top dollar to show England game , they be not prepared to fund a bawbee for a Scotland game . indeed , that be state by Simon Pitts of STV when he give evidence to the Scottish Affairs Committee . he say that there be " very little prospect of a large commercial return UK - wide , which in turn determine the level of bid . " scot tv licence fee do not , therefore , matter , and obligation to Scots viewer count for little . the licence fee pay by scot and the right give in Scotland to UK broadcaster be not be match by coverage . that be why this Bill be necessary . it must be mandatory that Scotland ' s game should be available , and broadcaster must live up to their obligation . scot fan have a right to see their team and to expect no less from their broadcaster . question put and agree to . order , that Kenny MacAskill , Neale Hanvey , Angus Brendan MacNeil , Douglas Chapman , Martyn Day , Carol Monaghan and Jamie Stone present the Bill . Kenny MacAskill accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 166 ) . Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill consider in Committee Clause 1 - duty to invite application for offshore licence I beg to move amendment 12 , page 1 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 1za ) the OGA must not invite any new seaward area production application licence until the Secretary of State have by regulation bring into effect a ban on flare and venting relate to new offshore installation other than that require in an emergency . ( 1zb ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make such provision so that the OGA be only permit to invite seaward area production application licence after 2030 once a prohibition be in place on routine flaring and venting for all offshore installation operate in UK water . ( 1zc ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 1za ) and ( 1zb ) be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . ( 1zd ) in subsection ( 1za ) and ( 1zb ) — ' flare ' mean the burning of hydrocarbon produce during oil and gas extraction ; ' venting ' mean the release of un - combust hydrocarbon directly into the atmosphere . " this amendment prevent the invitation of new seaward area production application licence until the Secretary of State have introduce a ban on flare and venting by new offshore installation . it also require the Secretary of State to prevent licensing round from 2030 if a wide ban be not in place . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : amendment 15 , page 1 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 1za ) the OGA must not invite any new seaward area production application licence until the Secretary of State have by regulation bring into effect a requirement that — ( a ) all new seaward area production application licence require a specific field commitment of a net zero carbon footprint reach through develop the Carbon Capture Utilisation and Storage network or such other mean as deem appropriate ; and ( b ) a percentage , to be specify in regulation but not less than 30 per cent , of all new seaward area production application licence specifically align petroleum extraction with the refining of petroleum at the Grangemouth oil refinery . ( 1zb ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 1za ) be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . " amendment 7 , page 1 , line 4 , leave out " in each relevant year " and insert " on a case - by - case basis " . amendment 2 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the climate test ( see section 4zd ) " this pave amendment , together with amendment 3 , set out the climate test to be apply by the Oil and Gas Authority before invite application for seaward new production licence . amendment 8 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the energy and job security test ( see section 4zd ) " this pave amendment , together with Amendment 9 , introduce a new test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward new production licence . amendment 10 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the just transition test ( see section 4zd ) " this pave amendment , together with Amendment 11 , introduce a new test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward new production licence . amendment 13 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the just transition plan test ( see section 4zd ) " this pave amendment , together with Amendment 14 , introduce a new test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward new production licence . amendment 17 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the climate change test ( see section 4zd ) " this pave amendment , together with Amendment 18 , set out the climate change test to be apply by the Oil and Gas Authority before invite application for seaward new production licence . amendment 22 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the home energy efficiency test ( see section 4zd ) . " this pave amendment , together with Amendment 24 , introduce a home energy efficiency test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward area production licence . amendment 23 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the Energy Charter test ( see section 4zd ) . " this pave amendment , together with Amendment 25 , introduce an Energy Charter test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward area production licence . amendment 19 , page 2 , line 1 , after " of " leave out " liquefy " . this amendment , together with Amendment 20 , would require the carbon intensity of domestic natural gas to be assess against the carbon intensity of all natural gas import into the UK . amendment 20 , page 2 , line 7 , leave out " liquefy " . this amendment , together with Amendment 19 , would require the carbon intensity of domestic natural gas to be assess against the carbon intensity of all natural gas import into the UK . amendment 21 , page 2 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) within six month of the commencement of this Act , the Secretary of State must produce and lie before Parliament a report on the effect of amend the definition of " carbon intensity " as set out in subsection ( 4 ) accord to section 93 of the Climate Change Act 2008 . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to report how the carbon intensity test be affect if the definition of carbon intensity be amend to include emission of gas other than carbon dioxide in line with the carbon dioxide equivalent measure in section 93 of the 2008 Climate Change Act . amendment 3 , page 3 , line 23 , at end insert — " 4zd the climate test mention in s 4za the climate test be meet in relation to a relevant year if the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change find that current global fossil infrastructure will not emit more greenhouse gas than be compatible with limit global heating to 1 . 5 degree Celsius . " amendment 9 , page 3 , line 23 , at end insert — " 4zd the energy and job security test mention in s 4za the energy and job security test be meet in relation to a relevant year if the OGA assess that new licence will — ( a ) low energy bill for household ; ( b ) deliver energy security and reduce reliance on import fuel source for domestic consumption ; ( c ) enhance sustain job security for the oil and gas workforce in area of the UK economically reliant on the oil and gas sector ; ( d ) guarantee funding for domestic refinery to increase capacity to process sustainable fuel source ; and ( e ) help the oil and gas sector meet commitment set out in the North Sea Transition Deal . " this amendment set out a new test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward new production licence . amendment 11 , page 3 , line 23 , at end insert — " 4zd the just transition test mention in s 4za the just transition test be meet in relation to a relevant year if the OGA assess that — ( a ) new licence will support the delivery of the North Sea Transition Deal ' s greenhouse gas emission reduction target of 10 % by 2025 , 25 % by 2027 and 50 % by 2030 against a 2018 baseline , to meet the sector ' s aim of a net zero basin by 2050 ; and ( b ) the Secretary of State have provide funding to support the development of the renewable energy sector , in area of the UK economically dependent on the oil and gas sector , equivalent to tax revenue collect from UK oil and gas production . " this amendment set out a new test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward new production licence . amendment 14 , page 3 , line 23 , at end insert — " 4zd the just transition plan test mention in s 4za ( 1 ) the just transition plan test be meet in relation to a relevant year if the OGA assess that all exist seaward area production licence holder have publish just transition plan for their workforce that be compatible with limit global heating to 1 . 5 degree Celsius . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — " just transition plan " refer to plan agree through formalise collective agreement with union in the workplace for consultation on policy ; " workforce " include worker , directly and indirectly ( sub - contract or agency ) employ , or engage through day - rate or self - employ contract model . " Amendment 18 , page 3 , line 23 , insert — " 4zd the climate change test mention in 4za the climate change test be meet in relation to a relevant year if the late report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on the mitigation of climate change find that the granting of additional seaward area production licence be consistent with limit warming to 1 . 5 ° C . " this amendment set out a new test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward new production licence . amendment 24 , page 3 , line 23 , at end insert — " 4zd the home energy efficiency test mention in s 4za the home energy efficiency test be meet if the median rating in current Energy Performance Certificates in the United Kingdom fall within or above Band B . " this amendment set out the home energy efficiency test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward area production licence . amendment 25 , page 3 , line 23 , at end insert — " 4zd the Energy Charter test mention in s 4za the Energy Charter Treaty test be meet if the United Kingdom have make arrangement to withdraw from the Energy Charter Treaty . " this amendment set out the Energy Charter test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward area production licence . clause stand part . clause 2 stand part . new clause 2 — duty to introduce spatial prioritisation policy — " after section 4 of the Petroleum Act 1998 insert — ' 4ZAA Duty to introduce spatial prioritisation policy ( 1 ) before the OGA invite application for seaward area production licence under this Act the Secretary of State must publish a marine spatial prioritisation policy . ( 2 ) the marine spatial prioritisation policy must establish a process for prioritise offshore renewable , marine protection , fishing activity , oil and gas licensing , and the achievement of relevant target under the Climate Change Act 2008 and the Environment Act 2021 in any relevant decision relate to the marine environment make by a body undertake public function . ( 3 ) the OGA must comply with the marine spatial prioritisation policy set out in subsection ( 1 ) when decide application relate to new seaward area production licence . ' " this new clause require the Secretary of State to publish a marine spatial prioritisation policy , take into account relevant target under the Climate Change Act 2008 and the Environment Act 2021 . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . on Second Reading , I say that this Bill be something of a distraction and not necessary on the basis that the North Sea Transition Authority can already grant licence annually or , indeed , whenever it consider it necessary . that will not change with the Bill . I also note at the time that the two statutory test in the Bill have be design in such a way that the computer always say yes to new oil and gas licence , but I also say that I would work with other like - minded colleague to improve the Bill and bring in further test that need to be meet before any new oil and gas production licence be grant . that be what I and other member have seek to do . amendment 12 seek to do two thing . first , it would stop the invitation of new production application licence until the Secretary of State have introduce a ban on the flaring and venting of methane by new offshore installation . secondly , it would require the Secretary of State to prevent licensing round from 2030 if a wide ban on flare and venting be not in place . along with other member who have sign up to the amendment , I argue that this be an entirely reasonable ask that the Government and all member should be able to get behind , give that all it modestly seek to do be put into statute exist guidance on flare and venting that be issue by the North Sea Transition Authority . let I set out the precise wording of the principle that the NSTA expect industry to follow in relation to flare and venting across all UK continental shelf area . first , " flaring and venting and associate emission should be at the low possible level in the circumstance " . secondly , there should be " zero routine flaring and venting for all by 2030 " . thirdly , " all new development should be plan and develop on the basis of zero routine flaring and venting . " that be a set of NSTA principle with which amendment 12 in entirely consistent . can my right hon . friend explain why it would be well to import liquefy natural gas , with four time the amount of co2 produce , rather than have our own gas ? his regulation would not apply to the foreign - produce gas we import . my right hon . friend make an important point : LNG have a high carbon - intensity footprint . but the majority of the gas that we import come by pipeline from Norway , and the production intensity of norwegian gas be around half that of the UK ' s . will my right hon . friend give way ? if I may , I will continue . in their response last year to the Environmental Audit Committee ' s report on accelerate the transition from fossil fuel and secure energy supply , the Government double down on the NSTA position . respond to the EAC recommendation , which call for the banning of flare from UK installation , the Government note that they have already sign up to " make every effort to ensure that routine flare from exist oil field end as soon as possible , and no later than 2030 . " the Government response go on to highlight the NSTA guidance that new development be approve on the basis of zero routine flaring and venting . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) raise the issue of import gas . I will just point out to he that , unfortunately , flaring be still a common practice in the UK . by contrast , Norway ban routine flaring in 1971 , and the carbon intensity of norwegian gas production be around half that of UK domestic production . the marginal gas we would import would come from Qatar or the United States of America . there be not an infinite supply of norwegian gas , so my right hon . friend be miss the main point . with respect , I do not think I be miss the main point . the point that the Government be pursue be to ensure that we have less use of fossil fuel overall and that we expand our renewable capacity , include nuclear , which I know my right hon . friend support . that be where we should be go with this strategy . the ban on flare in Norway be one of the key reason that Norway have become a leader in the clean production of oil and gas , which this Government have clearly indicate that they also want for UK production . I be look forward to hear the Minister ' s response to amendment 12 . I hope he will say that , give that it be consistent with Government policy and guidance , the Government will introduce a similar amendment in the other place . if they choose not to do that , I be pretty sure that a similar amendment will be table in the other place anyway , and that it be likely to be support . I would just humbly observe that if the Government whip against this or any similar amendment , either in this House or in the other place , they will put colleague in the absurd position of effectively have to vote against exist Government policy . I be really look forward to listen to what the Minister have to say . rise — order . we be in Committee , so I remind member that the Chair should be address by name or as " Chair " or " Madam Chair " , as Sir Alok Sharma do , and not as " Mr Deputy Speaker " or " Madam Deputy Speaker " . before I call the shadow Minister , I want to make it clear that I will be call those who have amendment down first and I will then move on to other , go from side to side . I would like to speak to our amendment 17 , 18 , 19 and 20 , to comment on other amendment before we today and then to place all this into the context of the Bill as a whole by way of what will effectively be a stand - part contribution . this Bill remain an ill - advise , pointless piece of political posturing — Don ' t pull any punch ! that be the mild version . as the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) have inform we , the Bill legislate for something that happen anyway . it will make no difference to bill , accord to the Secretary of State . it will make no difference to our energy security , accord to the former chair of BP . it will undermine the independence of the North Sea Transition Authority , accord to the NSTA ' s own board , and it and will reinforce the perception around the world that the UK be row back from climate action , accord to the former COP President , the right hon . member for Reading West . we regret that this insubstantial and damaging Bill have proceed this far , and we will vote against it on Third Reading . we do not need this one - clause Bill . we need instead a strategy for manage the North sea that support our energy security , meet our climate commitment and secure the economic and job benefit of the transition to a low - carbon economy . we would have like to debate a new clause set out a new principal objective for the North Sea Transition Authority that would have put such a strategy into effect . however , because the Bill be so short and tightly draw around the narrow issue of mandatory licensing round , amendment to put a more sensible strategy into place be regrettably not in order . we must therefore take the Bill on its own term , even if that mean treat it with significantly more respect than the drafter have treat this House with in present such a trivial and nakedly political proposal . we have in the Bill at present two test that should be pass if the Oil and Gas Authority be to proceed with mandatory licence issuance , and we know that the two test can not be fail . it be a fact that if properly draft — we might come to that in a moment — liquefy natural gas will always be more greenhouse gas - intensive in production than UK natural gas and we will always be in a position where gas and oil produce in the UK and in a decline North sea field will not meet our total demand for gas and oil . I learn in my first year at university — as I think the Minister do , because he do a similar degree to I — that a proposition that can not be falsify can not stand as a valid proposition . here we have two completely non - valid proposition in the Bill . they be bogus and cynically contrive to give the appearance that something have to be achieve before mandatory licencing take place . at the very least we need a test or test that can be fail and that produce a proper level of judgment into the advisability of proceed with such mandatory licence . the good test surely have to be whether such action be compatible with our climate change goal . the Government have previously introduce climate change compatibility test into production generally . it be strange that these appear nowhere in the Bill . the shadow Minister have say that get more of our own gas out of the North sea would help our security of supply and reduce co2 because it would displace import LNG , so why do he not support that proposition ? the proposition before we today be for mandatory licence round in a decline North sea field , which would make no difference in the long term to the total amount of gas that we get out of the North sea , as everybody know . it would instead put we firmly on the back foot as far as international climate change discussion be concern . that be the key issue that we need to address this afternoon . follow on from the question from my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) , be it therefore Labour ' s position not to allow any new oil and gas licence in the future , if Labour be to come into power ? it be Labour ' s position that we do not wish to see new energy exploration licence issue for the future , but that do not mean that the North sea will not continue in production over a long period of time and provide a substantial amount of oil and gas for our domestic market . our first amendment , 17 and 18 , would introduce a new test that would safeguard the legally bind commitment that the UK and all other nation make in the Paris agreement and have reaffirm ever since . every credible independent analysis — the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , the International Energy Agency , the Climate Change Committee — show that new exploration licence be not compatible with limit warming and avoid the bad of the devastating impact that climate change will have , and be have , around the world and here in the UK . the test that we have put in amendment 17 and 18 be possible if we have achieve or be achieve our climate change goal internationally . amendment 18 state : " the climate change test be meet in relation to a relevant year if the late report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on the mitigation of climate change find that the granting of additional seaward area production licence be consistent with limit warming to 1 . 5 ° C . " no one who be serious about this can take that to mean that exist field will not continue to produce for year to come — of course they will — but anyone who argue that business as usual and a few new license be the route to good , long - term job and energy security be frankly peddle a myth . we must accelerate the transition to new opportunity for North sea worker in the low - carbon economy , include through carbon capture , usage and storage , through hydrogen and through float offshore wind . we do not believe that test be the good route to achieve that goal . we need a holistic strategy , but within the framework set out in this Bill , the climate change test we propose be the only way to achieve a policy that be consistent with be a responsible and leading actor on the world stage in the fight against climate change , with manage our exist North sea asset carefully and for the long - term , and with maximise the low - carbon economic potential of the North sea . the other two amendment I will speak to highlight the extent to which the Bill fail even on the narrow term it have set out . amendment 19 and 20 would address the glare deficiency in the bogus carbon intensity test set out by the Government . currently , the test compare UK gas production carbon emission only against an aggregate of liquefy natural gas production emission , ignore pipeline - deliver gas , which make up most of our import , as the right hon . member for Reading West remind we . this amendment would correct that . as it stand , the test be design to be impossible to fail , so it be barely worthy of the name . include only LNG be a serious logical flaw . before the Minister jump to his foot , it be not true to say that every marginal unit of import gas must be LNG . indeed , we support substantial amount of natural gas come into the UK via the pipeline from Norway . the production of that gas be substantially clean than that of UK natural gas . apart from anything else , the Bill take no account of the UK ' s likely future gas demand profile . demand for gas will decline as we rapidly decarbonise our power sector and electrify more and more of our economy . indeed , this decline in demand , not just supply , be at the heart of a successful net zero transition . approve new exploration licence for field that will take year to come online , on the assumption that the alternative must otherwise be LNG , without take any account of future demand , be absurd . a fairer test would consider gas import in the round . I take on board the hon . Gentleman ' s comment that , overall , 30 % of our gas come from Norway . yes , that be the majority of our import , but it be still 30 % overall . nobody in this House have authority over Norway ' s future oil and gas prospect , but would he be in favour of the Norwegian Government explore for new oil and gas to supply to we ? no , in line with the IEA and the IPCC , I be not in favour of new exploration licence . the point be that , in a decline market , norwegian supply will continue to be very substantial , even if no new exploration licence be grant in Norway . the figure cite by the hon . Gentleman be almost right — the actual figure be 34 % . the United Kingdom supply 38 % of its own gas , with the United States supply 14 % , Qatar supply 9 % and other country supply small amount . Norway already occupy a very substantial position in our present gas supply , and I be sure it will continue to do so . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it might be useful to remind Conservative Members that , accord to the UN production gap report , government be already plan for their exist development to produce more than double the amount of fossil fuel in 2030 than be consistent with keep global heating to 1 . 5 ° c or below ? the idea that anyone can have vast new development be not compatible with keep below our climate target . the hon . Lady be absolutely right . new licence be an international issue . if we have new exploration licence around the world , we would simply produce far more oil and gas than be compatible with the 1 . 5 ° climate target . we should just keep it in the ground . finally , amendment 21 would go some way towards correct another element of the carbon intensity test . as currently draft — the Minister will want to listen to this bit — the test will not take account of methane emission , which be a serious flaw . the whole case for compare UK - base natural gas with LNG be base only on production emission . the emission of methane at various stage of the production and transportation of LNG be , in aggregate , bad than the emission of UK - produce and pipe natural gas , but they be not carbon dioxide emission , which be what the Bill say should be measure . LNG ' s potential carbon dioxide emission upon burning be roughly the same as , or perhaps slightly great than , the carbon dioxide emission from UK natural gas . as the right hon . member for Reading West say , that be elevate by the current UK practice of flare surplus gas , which can be measure in carbon dioxide emission . methane be a much more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide over 20 - year and 100 - year timeframe . its lifetime in the atmosphere be short than the lifetime of CO2 , but its impact be far more significant . the Climate Change Act 2008 be quite specific on how this should be measure . section 93 , which the Bill mention but do not act on , state that " greenhouse gas emission … and removal of greenhouse gas from the atmosphere shall be measure or calculate in tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent . " propose new section 4zb ( 1 ) of the Petroleum Act 1998 mention the carbon intensity of natural gas , but propose new subsection ( 3 ) define " carbon intensity " as " the carbon dioxide emission attributable to its production " . but carbon dioxide emission in production be not the principal concern here , as the gas have not be burn at that point . indeed , I can conceive of smart climate lawyer challenge the test ' s validity on precisely that point . the Minister might therefore see amendment 21 as provide a vital lifeline to the integrity of his Bill . to that extent , the amendment might be see as helpful , but I somehow doubt that he will take it up . to coin a phrase , " it ' s the methane , stupid . " the Bill should say so . propose new section 4zb ( 4 ) already give the Secretary of State the power to amend the carbon intensity test to include emission other than carbon dioxide . perhaps the Secretary of State or the Minister will shortly take that up to save the test . we can anticipate a fairly amusing statutory instrument debate when he try to do that . amendment 21 would simply require the Government to produce a report analyse what the impact of that change will be . in the spirit of try to improve a Bill that , by design , be fairly resistant to improvement , we welcome the amendment table by the right hon . member for Reading West and the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) . the Climate Change Committee and the Environmental Audit Committee have call for a ban on routine flaring and venting , and such a ban be long overdue . a marine spatial prioritisation policy would help to organise and plan an optimal long - term , low - carbon economic strategy for the North sea . there be clearly significant strength of feeling across the Committee that this be an inadequate Bill , and some of the propose test could undoubtedly make a bad Bill a little well , although some of those test have internal problem . we would not want to vote against those test , but the only comprehensive climate change and net zero compatible test be the one that we and , in principle , the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) have set out . it be the well available route , within a severely constrain process , to align this deeply flawed Bill with our essential energy security and climate change priority . I rise to speak to new clause 2 on spatial prioritisation . the compete pressure on sea space mean there be essentially a spatial squeeze . I fully understand the Bill ' s importance , as we all know that the oil and gas industry will have a key role as the UK transition towards clean energy . the Bill will provide reassurance to the industry . I be grateful that the Government have state that each annual licensing round will take place only if key emission test be meet , to support the transition to net zero . I thank the Minister and his team for their ongoing engagement on this issue but , as we seek to turn to renewable and clean energy , we need to ensure that we have the space and infrastructure to carry this forward , otherwise the energy transition will never come to fruition . I bring up this issue directly with the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , at the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , as my concern extend beyond just oil and gas . I be also concerned about how float offshore wind and fishing can cohabit the same ocean space , and I be also concerned about marine protect area . there be clearly a balance to strike . it be good to hear the Fisheries Minister ' s response about cross - departmental work to ensure that our fisherman have a future in the light of our need to expand our renewable energy source , but there be an opportunity in this Bill to ensure that we do not repeat these conversation as other energy source compete for space in the precious water around our coast . this will help not only the UK ' s energy security but our push towards renewable energy , which will support our fishing fleet and retain a simultaneous focus on biodiversity and improve the condition of marine protect area . as a coastal MP , all these point be especially important to I . be an eternal optimist , I think we can do all these thing simultaneously if we can plan strategically where we have the opportunity . my hon . friend be make some very good point , particularly on the spatial squeeze . she say that this be not a choice between one thing and another . opposition member tend to see this debate as black and white , and that we have to go in either one direction or the other . do she agree that , whether from the perspective of fishing , offshore wind or offshore oil and gas , it be very important that we come together so that everyone have a say ? as always , I agree with the point my hon . friend make . prioritise space be critical , as the Government have commit to deliver 50gw of offshore wind , which this represent approximately £ 93 . 3 billion - worth of investment and require nearly 8 , 500 sq km of new marine space . I need to declare an interest , as the chair of the all - party group on the Celtic sea . as such , my particular concern be about the deployment of float offshore wind , as it will open up area such as the Celtic sea so that we can generate energy no matter which way the wind blow . as it can be deploy in water deep than 60 metre , that technology open up 80 % of our offshore wind resource . the Celtic sea be an environment where strategic planning at this early point in the development of flow — not just for spatial prioritisation on the seabed but for clear planning of cable route to optimise how power transition to the grid — minimise blue carbon disruption from our ocean floor and onshore environmental damage from multiple plug - in point . indeed , give the long - term commitment to energy generation in the Celtic sea , as well as the North sea , the chance to plan strategically and include all future lease within a national framework come now . more renewable energy and great energy efficiency contribute more to energy security than new oil and gas . this integrate spatial planning will require new licence to ensure that enough sea space be allocate for nature recovery and climate change mitigation . otherwise , there be a risk that industrial activity could crowd out those important environmental purpose , which , with the right strategic planning early enough in the evolution of these vital new technology , can coexist alongside those that be now wane . currently , the Bill have no provision to require spatial prioritisation testing of the geographical block that become available for oil and gas search and production . that mean that the North Sea Transition Authority will be able to grant new licence in area of the sea where the cumulative impact of activity be incompatible with the achievement of Government target in the Climate Change Act 2008 and the Environment Act 2021 . do my hon . friend accept that in several case potentially useful oil and gas deposit in the North sea be adjacent to exist pipe and exist development production platform , so one great advantage would be that the infrastructure be already in place and it have spare capacity because of the decline of traditional field ? that would be far less intrusive , would it not ? my right hon . friend make a valid point . however , for I , this be about open up that conversation and make sure that these thing be consider in the round . if we be go to put an extra pipe in , we should consider what we be offset somewhere else . polling find that 80 % of the UK public believe our ocean protection law must be strengthen , and I know how important our water be to the resident of North Devon and the wide UK . we must ensure that we do all we can on this , while understand the vital role that oil and gas play and will play in our energy security . spatial prioritisation be important to ensure that continue to drive forward our new green energy be not do at the expense of our traditional industry , such as fishing , and give due consideration to the marine environment , which we on land owe so much to and be still find out more about . balance and optimisation be the objective of this amendment , and I hope the Minister will consider this opportunity , so that we really can have it all and decarbonise our energy , improve our biodiversity , support our fisherman and improve our energy security . I call the Scottish National party spokesman . I rise to speak to amendment 7 , 8 and 10 , which have be table by the SNP . I note that no substantive change have be make to the Bill ' s provision since we discuss it some week ago in this place ; it be no more responsive to the need of the climate , the energy sector in Scotland or bill payer who be haemorrhage money on their energy bill . we know , from the appropriation of Scotland ' s energy wealth by Thatcher in the 1980 , Cameron ' s " cut the green crap " at the beginning of this conservative regime , and the weak - minded and politically naive roll back of the green transition measure by the current Prime Minister , that time and time again , the Tories will never look after ordinary worker , Scotland or the environment . my hon . friend be make an excellent start to his speech . do he agree that it be outrageous that the Prime Minister have masquerade this legislation as a way of reduce energy bill for consumer , give that even the Secretary of State could not defend those claim ? do he also agree that this Government ' s only intention be to unlock as much tax revenue from the North sea oil and gas sector as possible and that no consideration have be give to reduce domestic energy bill , to energy security or to reach our climate commitment ? I agree entirely with my hon . friend . she touch on some of the key element that I will address in this speech . in order to salvage some semblance of responsibility and / or equity from this Bill , I urge member to support the SNP ' s amendment . they seek to amend the provision to facilitate licence issuance on a case - by - case basis , rather than it be do annually and by prescription . that be a reasonable improvement to the Bill by any measure . we would also like to incorporate a real test for new issuance that would require the North Sea Transition Authority to assess whether new licence will : low energy bill for bill payer ; deliver energy security and reduce reliance on import fuel source for domestic consumption ; enhance sustained job security for the oil and gas workforce in area of the UK that be economically reliant on the oil and gas sector ; guarantee funding for domestic refinery to increase capacity to process sustainable fuel source ; and stimulate the North sea oil and gas sector to meet commitment set out in the North sea transition deal . the SNP also wish to ensure that , henceforth , 100 % of tax revenue from oil and gas be invest in the just transition . a " just transition " test would have to be meet for any give relevant year , under which the NSTA would issue new licence only if it assess that : they will support the delivery of the North sea transition deal ' s greenhouse gas emission reduction target of 10 % by 2025 , 25 % by 2027 and 50 % by 2030 against a 2018 baseline , in order to meet the sector ' s aim of a net zero basin by 2050 ; and the Secretary of State have provide funding to support the development of the renewable energy sector in area of the UK that be economically dependent on the oil and gas sector , equivalent to tax revenue collect from UK oil and gas production . that amendment mean that new licence can not be issue unless it can be show that the licence will meet the North sea transition deal ' s greenhouse gas emission reduction target , and unless the UK Government be fund the renewable sector in oil and gas dependent area to at least the value of oil and gas revenue . the hon . Gentleman be speak about condition for grant new licence , but the SNP ' s draft energy strategy include a presumption against any new licence — be that his position ? be the SNP ' s position that there should be no new licence for oil and gas exploration ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that . it be lovely to see he in his place ; we know that he be a busy man with his other two job . I be sure that Hansard will correct I if my memory do not serve I correctly , but I believe that we rehearse this issue on Second Reading . let I point out to the hon . Gentleman , who I be certain be an ardent Unionist , that the position of the devolved Government , and whoever they be , be irrelevant in debate what we do with oil and gas licence in the UK because , sadly , Scotland ' s oil and gas endowment , as he well know — he make excuse for this regularly — be control remotely by a dysfunctional UK Government , whoever they be . so the point be moot . will the hon . Gentleman allow I to intervene , just to provide clarity ? no , I will not . the last SNP amendment will prevent this Government and the soon - to - be - instal Labour Government from simply use Scotland ' s North sea oil and gas revenue to fund tax cut in the UK , a state that be demonstrably not pay its way in the world . both Labour and Tory — two cheek of the same face , where Scotland be concern — will sacrifice Scotland ' s economic , industrial and material welfare , and those work in the energy sector , if it will win they a few more seat in this place . they have do it before and they will do it again while we remain in this break and discredit Union . the prosperity that come from oil and gas in Scotland be finite . I be not sure if the hon . Gentleman have move on from his glow appraisal of the North sea transition deal , but can I take it from his reference to that deal that the SNP ' s position be to support and welcome it in its entirety ? I be not go to meet the hon . Gentleman ' s ambition to nail those colour to the mast , but I will tell he that through the Bill , the UK Government be turn a blind eye to the implication of a free - for - all when it come to emission and who benefit from revenue receipt . I be sorry if he find that difficult , but he will to have to deal with it . the prosperity that come from oil and gas in Scotland be finite , as we know all too well . we have see what deindustrialisation with no transition plan look like — we witness it at first hand in the 1980 , when coal , steel and heavy industry be all tear asunder on the altar of monetarism and share price in the City of London . that be set to happen again for oil and gas , under Thatcher ' s willing disciple , the Leader of the Labour party and the Prime Minister . we can not allow that to happen again . it be therefore essential that north - east Scotland and other area reliant on oil and gas be afford the investment require . that be what our amendment speak to ; it be about create new job and transition in a manage , strategic fashion to accelerate our post - carbon future . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no . that be a just ambition for a just transition . the billion of pound still to be yield from oil and gas revenue must not be waste on doom capital infrastructure project , such as hs2 , or use to fund exorbitant false economy , such as nuclear power station in England . it be a moral and economic imperative that revenue be use to accelerate a genuine just transition , to protect job . in response to my previous intervention , the hon . Gentleman say that the Scottish National party position on this issue be " irrelevant " , but of course it be not ; it be vitally important . the SNP ' s draft energy strategy say there be a presumption against new exploration for oil and gas . do he support that ? that question speak to a mis - representation . there be no point in give way to the hon . Gentleman if he be go to misrepresent I in that way . what I actually say be that it do not matter who be in government in a devolved Assembly where energy policy be decide by remote control from a dysfunctional Westminster Government . that be the beginning and the end of it . if the hon . Gentleman do not like it , then he be welcome to join the SNP — well , perhaps not . we know the fact on the ground : the oil and gas sector be in decline because of finite reserve , and because it be to be consider an industry with a limited future , whereas the green transition have an unlimited future . job have already decrease in the sector . government Members be give the impression that with unlimited licensing there will be unlimited job , but that be not the case . job have decrease by 228 , 000 since 2013 , despite 400 new drilling licence in five separate auction round . production of gas in the North sea have already fall by two third since 2000 and will fall a further 95 % with new licence , as oppose to 97 % without . the issuance of new licence in and of itself will not shift the dial , especially if the revenue from scottish oil and gas continue to disappear into the black hole that be the Treasury . what be need be a wholesale redistribution of fiscal receipt from scottish oil and gas to the renewable transition , ringfence and guarantee by statute . in Scotland , we be apt to wonder what we get for the £ 300 billion in tax receipt from Scotland ' s oil — a question now be mirror for our renewable endowment . I note that member on the Government Benches have desist from repeat the nonsense that energy bill will be lower if we grant unlimited licence — and not before time . what will lower bill be ensure that the renewable energy we generate can find its way to consumer without need to be turn off because the grid can not cope after 14 year of non - investment by the Tories . new grid infrastructure will lower bill by dial gas out of the system . government member talk about the relentless need for more and more gas , as if that do not speak to a flaky ambition on a just transition ; it expose it and lay it bare . we will dial gas out of the system by have a network that can connect Scotland ' s renewable energy to the market where that be require , and we will do so with proper investment in sub - sea line , rather than by scar Scotland with 80 - metre pylon . it be a pity that the UK Government would not invest the billion that they be plough into nuclear into environmentally optimal grid improvement , instead of default to pylon and overhead line . the Bill be part of an ill - fated Tory miscalculation on make a just transition a wedge issue . we know that , because the Bill be a non - existent solution to a non - existent problem . some 27 new licence be grant in 2023 , and a licensing round have be hold by the North Sea Transition Authority every year and a half since 2016 . if the Bill be the answer , then I be not certain what the question be . it undermine the independence of the NSTA by force it to hold new oil licensing round every year , whereas currently the NSTA undertake licensing round when it deem that they be require . it be a challenge so unwelcome that the NSTA board unanimously agree that this legislation and the annual licensing round be unnecessary . this be what happen when the energy sector , so vital to a broad - base , developed economy like Scotland ' s , be subject to remote control . renewable already account for the equivalent of 113 % of Scotland ' s gross electricity consumption , yet we still pay sky - high energy bill because of the amount of gas require for generation in England , due in no small part to the Tories small - minded hysteria surround onshore wind , and their 10 - year - old ban on development of onshore . invest far in the green hydrogen sector in Scotland could support up to 300 , 000 job — it be a pity that member on the Government Benches will not focus on that opportunity — and it would add up to £ 25 billion to Scotland ' s gross value add by 2045 . further development of our renewable sector represent an extraordinary export opportunity for Scotland — one that we must grab much more , instead of look back ; we should look to the enterprise of the future . the hon . Gentleman rightly mention the sky - high energy price that people in Scotland face , even though Scotland generate so much energy . what role do he think zonal and modal energy market modelling , rather than a one - size - fit - all , UK - wide approach , would play in substantially reduce energy cost in the like of Sutherland in Scotland , and also in England , in place like Surrey ? everybody would be a winner if we move away from the UK - wide model and towards the zonal and modal method . the hon . Gentleman raise an interesting question . there have be a lack of investment , and the network that deliver energy around GB be design for a small number of very large generator . it be ill - equipped to deal with many small system of generation . that be why we find ourselves switch off wind turbine and , where the demand still exit , replace they with gas , much to all our constituent ' cost and misery . the failure to transition in the electricity distribution network across GB be exactly the same failure we see in our dependency and desire to keep look backwards . we should transition from hydrocarbon to renewable in a way that respect community . in closing , we should grasp Scotland ' s bright future with both hand . in so do , we will rid ourselves of the mismanagement of successive UK Governments in Westminster . before I bring in some of those who may not have table amendment , I remind member that we be at Committee stage , so discussion be of the amendment . however , as we be also discuss clause 1 and 2 stand part , there be perhaps a little more scope . as I mention on Second Reading , the Bill be of particular interest to I because the oil and gas industry have play a significant role as a major employer in the Waveney and Lowestoft area for nearly 60 year . moreover , the offshore wind industry and other low - carbon energy technology , such as nuclear and hydrogen , will provide exciting local job - create opportunity for generation to come . Dame Rosie , I also chair the british offshore oil and gas industry all - party parliamentary group . as I mention in the debate on 22 January , there be sound reason to support the Bill in its current form , as a great deal have happen geopolitically in the past two to three year . however , as we have hear today , some say that the Bill be unnecessary because licensing round have in any case be hold on a broadly annual basis , up to the 32nd licensing round that open in 2019 . I be also mindful that , give the enormous amount of private sector investment that we need to leverage in so as to secure the transition and deliver our net zero target , there be a need for both consistency of message and the avoidance of political meddling . in the previous debate , I highlight that one of the Conservative Government ' s most notable achievement in recent year be the creation in 2016 of the Oil and Gas Authority , which now operate as the North Sea Transition Authority and which have correctly acknowledge that the delivery of net zero be its core mission . I also express the worry that the Bill undermine the independence of the NSTA . it be through this prism , Dame Rosie , that I consider these amendment , many of which be well reason and well intentione . the NSTA ' s work on deliver net zero derive , as we have hear , from the North sea transition deal , which be an agreement between the UK Government and the oil and gas industry facilitate by the NSTA . this should be the forum through which the amendment before we today be negotiate . by pursue this partnership approach , we shall retain the confidence of an industry , which , as I have mention previously , be globally footloose and which we need to deliver net zero and to secure the enormous job opportunity that be potentially available . last month , the East of England Energy Group publish its five core principle for energy in the east of England . it also set out what be need from Government so that it can deliver its vision . its requirement include a stable fiscal policy , so as to boost investor confidence and project progression , and stable and predictable regulation and policy mechanism that foster investor confidence and support energy security and the UK ' s progress on meet its decarbonisation target . it be against those parameter that we should judge the amendment . I would add that the Opposition ' s green prosperity plan have alarm industry and place at risk the inward investment that be so badly need . however , that be a debate for another day . on Second Reading , I suggest that we should consider a more ambitious climate compatibility checkpoint and bring forward a ban on routine venting and flaring . those be sensible ambition , as I have say , but they do need to be work up in conjunction and partnership with the NSTA and industry , and not impose on they . on amendment 12 and new clause 2 , it should be add that the NSTA have a good track record with regard to both venting and flaring and marine spatial planning . my hon . Friend mention the role of the NSTA in the facilitation and delivery of the North sea transition deal , which , as he say , be negotiate between industry and the UK Government . do he agree that what he be advocate be precisely the purpose of the North sea transition deal — to facilitate the delivery of energy transition to net zero ? my hon . friend be quite right : the North sea transition deal be the foundation stone on which we should be build , involve industry , involve the NSTA and give industry the confidence to make the significant investment that we need . the North sea transition deal include the target to cut greenhouse gas and emission by 10 % by 2025 and by 25 % by 2027 . the NSTA want to halve emission by 2030 . it be also commit to all new development have no routine flaring and venting , with zero routine flare across all North sea platform , whether new or existing , by 2030 at the late . good progress be be make . although figure be not yet available for 2023 , emission be reduce by 23 % between 2018 and 2022 , while flaring have be reduce by 50 % over the same period . in addition to tracking , monitor and reporting performance , the NSTA closely scrutinise operator ' application for flare consent , push back against request to increase flaring , and have order operator to restrict production to stay within agree limit . it have , where necessary , issue fine for breach . on marine spatial planning , the NSTA follow a precautionary approach and be acutely aware of the need for co - ordination and collaboration in what be increasingly crowded and sometimes very sensitive and precious water . it be thus work closely with such organisation as the Crown Estate and the Marine Management Organisation in deliver the marine spatial prioritisation programme of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . in conclusion , the Bill and the amendment raise very important matter , but to tackle they properly , we need to adopt a long - term approach that transcend the four - to - five - year political cycle and that fully involve business . I rise to support amendment 17 and 19 , and to speak to my amendment 22 and 24 on energy efficiency test and amendment 23 and 25 on the energy charter treaty . let I start with amendment 25 . at the moment , the energy charter treaty , of which we be a member , be a fail international treaty . it bind we to any contract that we sign for oil , gas or any energy . once it be sign , we can not get out of it without pay the hope value of that contract . what I mean by the hope value be that a member do not pay the actual material value if it want to stop that contract now ; it have to pay all the potential value of that contract if the oilfield , for example , be fully exploit . the treaty have cost other european country billion and billion of pound when they have try to implement climate mitigation policy . it be dangerous , because the decision be make not by british court or by international court with a british judge , but by secretive tribunal where the corporation get to appoint the people who make the deliberation . it be so outrageous that European Union member have agree to withdraw en masse — they be currently negotiate on how to do so in a co - ordinate way — and to do side letter with each other to ensure they be not bind by the 25 - year clause under which any extant licence that have be sign must continue to be honour , even after withdrawal . what have that get to do with this ? because if we sign more licence while we be still part of the energy charter treaty , the Minister be bind the hand of future generation . if we withdraw from the energy charter treaty , as our ally and partner be try to do , and then decide to award new licence , future government and generation could , without penalty , withdraw or reduce those licence . that very much relate to the Bill , because I be say : " if you want to do this for short - term gain " — I do not believe the Government ' s premise to start with — " at least allow future generation and government to come and fix your mess ; do not bind their hand under international treaty . " I think that that be relevant to the awarding of new licence . the fact that so many country be flee the energy charter treaty mean that this be the moment to negotiate with our partner to work out a new way forward . the british Government themselves accept that the energy charter treaty have fail . they have try to make significant amendment to it to allow flexibility on climate change goal . it have not be possible to amend it , which be why european partner be try to withdraw . this test would do two thing . not only would it avoid bind future generation , but it would put a rocket up the derri è re of our Ministers and Departments to ensure that they fulfil the pledge of reform or withdrawal , which be a pledge that we have already make . let I address amendment 22 and 24 on the energy efficiency test for home heating . in reality , the big proportion of domestic energy be spend on home heating . huge domestic bill will not be solve one iota by the Bill , as the Minister have admit , because the product will be sell on the international market and the marginal price at which we buy it back will still be inflate . our electricity market , which be link to that marginal price , will continue to be inflate . the good and most efficient way to reduce energy bill and the demand and need for gas — the way that we all know need to happen — be to ensure that our home meet decent energy efficiency standard . the amendment set out that the Government need to redouble their effort to ensure energy efficiency before we commit to and invest in new licence for offshore drilling , and that we need a median rating of band b in energy performance . at the moment , C be see as standard and D be common in private rental . privately let home be the bad in the sector , and great help be need . we can not continue to rely on Government programme that do not touch the side . we need a proper approach in which we go street by street with council and local government , fully fund by central Government , with clawback in future year . however , we can not expect our citizen to pay a penny out of their pocket up front . homeowner be already overstretch , with huge additional bill , in a mortgage market that have be destroy by the Government . they can not afford an extra cent , an extra penny , for home improvement . that all need to be cover by the Government . my amendment would incentivise the Government to do that and to ensure that we have make every effort to reduce gas demand before we go ahead with the foolish endeavour of drill more oil and gas , which will not reduce price , will not stop fuel poverty in this country and will not deal with any of our long - last problem . it would be a sticking plaster that do not even stick . I work with the Opposition Front Benchers on amendment 17 , which set out the climate change test , so I be delighted that they have table it . a similar amendment have be table by my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) . it be important to say that we can not meet our climate target if we do not honour and respect the ipcc ' s work and report . we be on a hiding to nothing if we think that we can keep drill and extract more while meet our energy target . I remember phrase from the anti - war movement , such as , " you can ' t bomb for peace , " and another about not be able to do something for virginity . it feel to I that this be a very similar thing : we be try to do something that be the very opposite of what we want to achieve . if the Government want to be commit to their climate target , and if they think that more licence be need , they need to ensure that those licence actively achieve our net zero target . I be afraid that the Bill will not do that . it will make thing bad , energy bill will continue to be high , and it will ensure that we be bind for a generation . that be why all my amendment should be support . I be sure that we will push the Opposition Front - Bench amendment to a vote . I rise to speak in support of the Bill and of all the employee of company right across the country , include in my Banff and Buchan constituency , that will play a critical and successful role in the UK ' s ongoing energy transition to net zero by 2050 . I remind the Committee that , for 25 year prior to be elect in 2017 , I work in the energy sector — in the oil and gas sector specifically — in a wide range of role for several different company and in various place around the world . I also declare that I have a close family member with a financial interest in one of those company , which be below the threshold require for register interest . I can also assure the Committee that that financial interest have never have , and will never have , any bearing on my contribution in this or any other debate . on Second Reading , I speak about the potential for increase confidence and certainty that the Bill bring to the energy industry . for many people watch , include a few hon . and right hon . member in this place , there would appear to be a perfectly polarise distinction between maximise oil and gas on one hand and promote renewable on the other . the truth exist on a continuum between those two extreme , however . we have in fact be on a transition away from the most polluting of fossil fuel towards clean , low - carbon , renewable source of energy for a number of decade now . that transition be happen at various rate in different part of the world , but it be fair to say that the United Kingdom be at the forefront , as the first major economy not only to legislate for net zero but to set the most stringent decarbonisation target . the Conservative Government have preside over the UK ' s become the first major economy to have reduce carbon emission by 50 % from 1990 level . that compare to only 7 % that have be achieve by the time the Conservatives come to power in 2010 . we have effectively transition away completely from coal power , and continue to reduce our demand for oil and gas and increase our renewable and low - carbon capacity , but not as fast as our domestic supply will continue to decline , even with new production . a critical point that need to be reinforce in consider this legislation be that new oil and gas do not mean more oil and gas — a mistake that I hear in the speech of the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) . even with new production , the North Sea Transition Authority predict that UK oil and gas production will decline , not by the 3 % to 4 % suggest by the International Energy Authority to stay within the global 1 . 5 ° C target , but by twice that rate of decline , at around 7 % . we be today 75 % dependent on oil and gas for our energy need , and not just for electricity generation , but for heat and transportation as well . of that 75 % , about 50 % be produce domestically with the rest have to be import . the argument for produce our own oil and gas close to home have be well rehearse . there be the obvious benefit of have that source of energy under our control , not that of other state and country that be not always friendly . we have also hear how liquefy natural gas for transportation and shipping that LNG halfway around the world to then be de - liquefy back into gas when it arrive in the UK can produce up to four time the carbon emission of domestically produce gas . we know from the Climate Change Committee that we be likely still to be up to 25 % dependent on oil and gas by 2050 . it therefore follow that carbon capture , utilisation and storage will be require for the UK to reach net zero by 2050 . that include , of course , the Acorn CCS and hydrogen project at St Fergus in my constituency , and in particular the role it will play in decarbonise gas - fire power generation at Peterhead . what will also be require to get to net zero be precisely those skill , technology and supply chain that currently exist and will , no doubt , continue to be develop within the oil and gas industry . however , those critical element would sadly no long be available to we if we shut down our domestic oil and gas industry prematurely , which be what would happen if the opposition party have their way , whether it be the SNP ' s " presumption of no new exploration " for oil and gas — a direct quote of the SNP ' s draft energy strategy — or labour ' s " just stop oil " approach . I be see some nod of agreement from across the Floor , but there have recently be something of a war of word between the two main party — I be refer to Labour and the SNP — in Scotland follow Labour ' s screech u - turn on its £ 28 billion a year green investment plan . of course , we on the conservative Benches always see that plan as undeliverable without massive tax increase . Labour announce that it would not only increase the energy profit levy and make it last long , but remove the investment allowance . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? before I give way , I will gently point out to Opposition Front Benchers — I be not sure whether they be aware of this — that the 78 % tax rate they be so keen to copy from Norway come with an equivalent 78 % investment allowance in that country . labour ' s plan would remove the investment allowance , put future investment across the energy sector even far at risk . of course , as we hear early , Labour still maintain its position of ban all new oil and gas licence , which have inevitably lead to an outcry from the sector in recent week . among other , Offshore Energies UK ' s chief executive David Whitehouse have say : " we remain deeply concerned about what labour ' s proposal could do to our people . if we can ' t get company to invest here , there be no job . it ' s that simple . " he go on to describe labour ' s proposal as " a hammer blow to the energy we need today and to the homegrown transition to clean energy that everyone in the UK want to see . " that be the key point , which often go over the head of so many on the opposition Benches : the skill and technology to deliver net zero be not go to appear magically over the horizon , and the talent and expertise in what would become a defunct oil and gas industry will not automatically and immediately transfer across to the renewable sector . more likely , company and their employee who will find themselves squeeze out of oil and gas in the UK will simply move overseas to deliver someone else ' s energy security and someone else ' s energy transition — and , no doubt , deliver oil and gas that we would end up have to import . of course , the SNP have come out of the woodwork to jump on the bandwagon , criticise labour ' s approach while completely contradict its previous stance and — more than likely — that of its Scottish Green coalition partner in Holyrood . SNP leader Humza Yousaf say last September that he do not want Scotland to be Europe ' s oil and gas capital , presumably wish to pass that mantle to our North sea neighbour in Norway . a little over a year ago in its draft energy strategy , the SNP state — I quote again — that there should be a " presumption " against new exploration for oil and gas . I be not sure whether the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) be still look to intervene , but I wonder whether he would take this opportunity to answer that question . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for take my intervention , even though it be about five minute ago on a different subject . he make a really interesting point in his speech : that new licence do not mean more oil and gas . conversely , have a more circumspect and rational approach to licence issuance — take it out of the political arena and put it into the bureaucratic space — do not mean less oil and gas . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will accept that if that be true for one , it be true for the other . do he not agree with my position , and that of my party , that as the oil and gas industry continue on its journey to its natural conclusion of a much reduce industry , for whatever reason — the transition to renewable , or deplete resource — it be much more important , and in fact elegant , to make sure that those tax receipt be invest in the energy of the future , not squander by his Majesty ' s Treasury ? I find myself look for a point that I might agree with in the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention , and sadly fail . however , his point about the decline of oil and gas in the UK have be make time and time again . ever since 2004 we have be a net importer of oil and gas , so my point about new oil and gas not be more oil and gas be about manage that decline to make up for the fact that we be not replace that oil and gas generation with renewable as fast as we would like . I will address that point in more detail in a moment . those comment from the SNP leader just go to show the staggering hypocrisy and inconsistency of the SNP , but neither the industry nor the electorate be so easily fool , particularly in the north - east of Scotland . if ask whether they support new oil and gas licence , as we have see today , some SNP Members — and , I dare say , some Labour Members as well — may find it difficult to commit to a position , particularly when face their constituent in the north - east of Scotland . however , this Conservative Government and , in particular , the scottish Conservatives have maintain consistent support for the oil and gas industry — the company , and the ten of thousand employ from right across the UK . we recognise , as this Bill do , the potential for the people in this industry not just to keep our light on and keep the economy move in the near term , but to lead the world in show how a successful energy transition from oil and gas to renewable can be do . sadly , as have be confirm a couple of time today , all his Majesty ' s opposition seem able to offer be to lead the world in virtue signal . in follow the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) , I have to say that his speech be one of startling complacency , which still seem to be base on the misunderstanding that just because we exploit oil and gas in the North sea , that somehow mean that it be our — that it get use here , rather than be sell on global market at international price . so many of we have say that so many time in this Chamber , but it still do not seem to have penetrate . I rise to speak in support of my amendment that have be select for debate : amendment 2 , 3 , 13 and 14 . before I begin in earnest , I want to emphasise that seek to amend this sham of a Bill in no way legitimise what be nothing more than a political stunt . it be not a serious piece of legislation ; rather , it be a desperate and dangerous attempt to create yet another culture war . it will make no practical difference at all , give that there have be annual licensing round for most of the past decade , with even the board of the North Sea Transition Authority express the unanimous view that this legislation be not need . the amendment I have table be design to expose the falsehood that have be tell by the Government in attempt to justify new fossil fuel extraction in the midst of a climate emergency . the first be that new oil and gas licence can in any way be compatible with deliver our climate target , and the second be that prop up oil and gas can possibly be in the interest of worker , rather than genuinely engage with the need for a just transition and the practicality of how it be deliver . I will first address my amendment 2 and 3 . take together , those amendment would insert a new climate test into the Bill alongside the Government ' s carbon intensity test and the net importer test , which as we know be not so much robust assessment as they be free pass to pollute . the climate test be very simple : it would be meet in a give year only if the ipcc find that current global fossil fuel infrastructure will not emit more greenhouse gas emission than be compatible with limit global heating to 1 . 5 ° . accord to the climate Minister , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , that critical threshold be supposedly the Government ' s " north star " — a threshold that , as we all know , be pass for the first time across the entirety of last year . I therefore hope that the Minister will support my amendment , which would ensure that propose licensing round do not undermine global effort to secure a safe and liveable planet for the future and keep that north star shine . indeed , as I mention early , the UN production gap report have warn that government already plan to produce more than double the amount of fossil fuel in 2030 than would be consistent with limit heating to 1 . 5 ° . if we look at what the ipcc itself have say , its sixth assessment report be clear : " project CO2 emission from exist fossil fuel infrastructure without additional abatement would exceed the remain carbon budget for 1 . 5 ° C " . close to home , the Climate Change Committee observe in its late progress report : " expansion of fossil fuel production be not in line with Net Zero . " regardless of the claim from Conservative Members that the UK will continue to need some oil and gas up to 2050 , this , and I again use the word of the Climate Change Committee , " do not in itself justify the development of new North Sea field . " indeed , last month its interim chair , Professor Piers Forster , be force to correct the Chancellor on this front , reiterate : " UK oil and gas consumption need to fall by over 80 % to meet UK target . " this be especially critical because , as I reiterate on Second Reading , the UK do not operate in a vacuum , and issue more licence in the wake of COP28 , which see agreement to transition away from fossil fuel , will encourage other government to go against the spirit of that commitment . this be doubly the case give the UK ' s historical responsibility for the climate crisis , which require we to show leadership now in model the transition away from fossil fuel , not double down on the very thing that be drive planetary breakdown . More UK production will not displace extraction elsewhere ; it will fuel it and support a large global market . however much minister seek to distort the truth , planetary boundary can not be appease by warm word . as the UN Secretary - General say at the opening of COP28 : " the 1 . 5 - degree limit be only possible if we ultimately stop burn all fossil fuel . not reduce . not abate . Phaseout " . I now move on to my second test , the just transition plan test , as set out in amendment 13 and 14 . frankly , I be sick and tired of the Government use oil and gas worker as an excuse to issue new licence , pretend that no transition be the same as a just transition , and ignore the fact that fail to act now actually leave those worker and community bad off and in the lurch later on . the choice we be face be between a manage and fair worker - lead transition now , or chaos later on when the reality of the climate crisis bite more fiercely and project in the North sea be no more than stranded asset , leave community once again leave behind and hollow out . offshore Energies UK have itself observe in its 2023 workforce insight report that " the time to act be now : there be a crucial window of opportunity for the workforce between 2024 and 2028 " . it go on to say that this be when the UK supply chain capacity can be sustain and that " the transferability of the offshore energy workforce can be optimise " . I be very familiar with the report the hon . Member have just quote . do she recognise that what Offshore Energies UK be refer to — the Goldilocks zone , as I have hear it describe — be the point at which we need to make maximum benefit of the skill , supply chain and technology that currently exist in the oil and gas industry , so that we can make the good use of those skill to deliver net zero ? the good way to make use of those skill be by make sure that we put resource behind those worker so that they can make the transition , which so many of they want to do , into renewable . right now , those worker be actually have to pay to make that transition themselves . they have to pay for the training . [ interruption . ] they do . I table an amendment to a previous piece of legislation on education and training to try to make it much less onerous for oil and gas worker to shift into , say , the renewable sector . we need to have those plan , and we need the resource behind they to make that a lot easy than it be today . the result and the reality be that the number of job in the oil and gas sector have already drop by more than half over the past decade , despite hundred of drilling licence be issue . the just transition plan test would be meet in a year if the Oil and Gas Authority assess that all exist seaward area production licence holder have publish just transition plan for their workforce that be compatible with limit global heating to 1 . 5 ° . amendment 14 specifie that those plan must be agree through formalise collective agreement with union , and that they apply to all worker whether they be directly or indirectly employ — or , self employ , which be vital with the heavy casualisation in the oil and gas workforce . indeed , a report in 2020 reveal a high level of concern about job security and working condition in the oil and gas industry , and that 80 % of survey worker would consider move to a job outside that particular sector . furthermore , give the opportunity to retrain to work elsewhere in the energy sector , more than half would be interested in renewable and offshore wind . worker be ready to lead a just transition , yet a more recent report have reveal that " company be increasingly announce net zero target — but there be no example in the UK oil and gas sector of worker involvement in decision - making on decarbonisation . " that must change . this amendment would be a step towards deliver a just transition that would see worker at the centre of transition planning , with a clear and accessible pathway out of high - carbon job . rather than prop up job that we know be not go to exist in the future , the Government should be actively support worker to transition out of the oil and gas sector now , while also address their very real concern , such as the cost of retraining , which be often bear by worker themselves , or the inferior employment protection offshore , which can lead to wage under - cutting . there be even some case of seafarer work in the offshore wind sector be pay below the minimum wage . that be a scandal , and the Government should urgently establish a wage floor to apply to all offshore energy worker , regardless of nationality , who be carry out any work on the UK continental shelf . the failure to deliver a just transition be not an inevitability , but a political choice . if the Government be serious about listen to worker and protect job , they should have no problem support this amendment , which put job security at the heart of the transition . I note that the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) have table amendment 10 and 11 on a just transition , but I have to say that I do have two serious concern . first , accord to the drafting of amendment 11 , the SNP test will be meet " if the OGA assess that … new licence will support the delivery of the North Sea Transition Deal ' s … emission reduction target " . yet , as we know , the 50 % reduction by 2030 which be in the NSTD proposal , against a 2018 baseline , be far weak than the 68 % reduction recommend by the Climate Change Committee , which it say be achievable . it be also important to note that this only include scope 1 and 2 emission , so it fail to take account of emission produce when oil and gas be burn . secondly , there be no provision to consult worker as part of this test . therefore , give that it would fail to deliver a worker - lead transition and it also exceed the advice of the CCC , I sadly can not vote for that . before conclude , I offer my support to a number of other amendment . first , I support amendment 12 , on ban flaring and venting , table by the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) . as other have mention , Norway ban routine flare back in 1971 , give the lie to the Government ' s claim that UK gas have low emission . secondly , I support amendment 19 and 20 , table by the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) , to amend the carbon intensity test and to include all gas , not just LNG . give that we import most of our gas through a pipeline , it be utterly ridiculous to compare UK production with LNG that be vastly more polluting . there have be much debate today about the alternative of LNG from Qatar , but there have be a failure to take into account whether our be more dependent on LNG from Qatar would in any way change what Qatar do about its own production . it have be record that Qatar will increase its production by 67 % by 2027 , which mean that that energy will be produce and will have certain emission . at the end of the process , we might have produce something with few carbon emission , but it would be well not to produce they at all . the hon . Member make a characteristically wise and useful point . that figure of 67 % be startling and deeply worrying . thirdly , I support amendment 22 and 24 , table by the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) — I hope I can call he an hon . friend — set out a home energy efficiency test . as we all know by now , that be the most effective way of deliver real energy security for household that be struggle so much to pay their bill . fourthly , I support amendment 23 and 25 , again table by the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown , require the UK to have make arrangement to withdraw from the energy charter treaty before new licence can be award . it be totally unacceptable that the Government be mandate annual licensing round without have withdraw from a treaty that allow company to sue for lost profit . the Government previously commit to review the UK ' s membership of the ECT , include consideration of withdrawal from the treaty if propose modernisation reform be not agree at November ' s energy charter conference . as I understand it , those proposal be not even discuss at the conference , so may I ask the Minister , when he sum up , to say what be hold up their withdrawing from that treaty , give that they acknowledge that " there be now no clear route for modernisation to progress . " finally , last week it be report that british Gas profit soar tenfold last year follow the change Ofgem have make to the price cap . in the same week Government figure show that almost 9 million household — well over a third — spend more than 10 % of their income after housing cost on domestic energy bill , and it be also reveal that not a single new proposal for public onshore wind be make in England last year despite the Government ' s policy change . those three example be all from just one single week ; this week and next week there will be more , and together they demonstrate the utter failure of this government to make decision that would benefit people and planet and to unleash our abundant renewable , massively upscale energy efficiency installation and work to get we off expensive and volatile gas altogether . instead , each week we see yet more evidence that this tired and divisive government be prioritise increasingly desperate attempt to save their own skin over measure that would improve all our life by ensure that everyone have a warm and comfortable home to live in , community have be support to make the most of the green transition and our one precious and infinitely fragile planet be finally restore . I rise to speak to amendment 15 table on behalf of the Alba party . the choice we face be not between shut down North sea oil and gas and carry on regardless but how to make its continue exploitation compatible with the environmental challenge and to acknowledge the role that oil can and will play in a sustainable future for the planet . I do not disagree with the four broad objective of the UK Government proposal , and amendment 15 would strengthen those ambition on energy independence , safeguard domestic energy supply , energy security , reduce high emission import , protect domestic oil and gas industry job and work towards our net zero target in a pragmatic , proportionate and realistic way . but I be not convince that the Bill — and certainly government policy as it be currently be deliver — will meet those ambition . if the provision be to be truly apply to all part of the UK as the Government state , then Scotland , the source of oil and gas and whose water contain the lion ' s share of carbon storage site , can not be leave out of the action . Depleting Scotland ' s industrial capacity have increasingly be the direction of travel from this Government in recent year and this strategy will not strengthen the Union as they claim they wish to do . they should be aware that erode our industry and job will far drive up support for independence . they should also be aware that 74 % of the scottish population support domestic oil and gas exploitation and 54 % of the scottish public support new licence be grant for that purpose . our amendment be without question helpful to all those ambition , and indeed other , and should be support by all side . its proposal be pragmatic , realistic , responsible and , most importantly , fair . the infrastructure in Scotland be already in place to meet these objective . in the north - east we have St Fergus and the Acorn project , in my Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath constituency we have at Mossmoran one of Europe ' s four cracker plant alongside an LNG plant operate by Exxon and Shell , and at Grangemouth we have one of the UK ' s current oil refinery . I reference the point make by the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) with regard to the environmental impact of export oil and gas abroad , which should dissuade the Government from even consider close the refinery at Grangemouth . all those operation have interconnect pipeline that be bi - directional , so the infrastructure be all there and it be completely feasible to transport carbon from Grangemouth and Mossmorran north to St Fergus for offshore storage . from my discussion with the operator in my constituency , I know their carbon reduction team have be willing and ready to look at the opportunity since I be elect . Exxon have recently make a multi - million - pound investment in Mossmorran , secure its future . that be particularly relevant to some early comment on amendment 12 with regard to flaring . that be a persistent problem at Mossmorran where we have an elevated flare that cause light , noise , vibration and pollution , not to mention the environmental impact of the flaring . that investment have reduce flare significantly , and all plant should seriously consider that to reduce the impact on the community and the environment around they . that investment from Exxon be well in excess of the modest amount that be require to keep Grangemouth go ; it be a multimillion - pound investment and significantly more than what be require to keep the refinery operate at Grangemouth . so engagement with industry be essential if we really want to build confidence , as the Government claim they want to do , but the UK and the Scottish Government have move with glacial speed on carbon capture , and have in particular be hamper by the Scottish Green party ' s resistance and call for the wholesale closure of Mossmorran . that have limit progress . the capacity for carbon capture and storage in scottish water be enormous . the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research Community estimate that the UK have between 16 and 20 gigatonne in abandon hydrocarbon field and an enormous 19 to 716 gigatonne - worth of storage capacity in saline aquifer , most of which be in Scotland ' s territorial water . this be enough to store carbon worth 500 year of the UK annual emission , and of course we expect those emission to go down year on year . carbon capture and storage be vital to the UK reach its net - zero ambition by 2050 , but the carbon must be separate or capture from the flue gas before it can be geologically store . currently there be three main method of capture — post - combustion , pre - combustion and oxyfuel combustion . these technology have great opportunity to advance responsible environmental exploration of North sea oil and gas , but that require ongoing in - field research and development through university and industrial partnership , and the development of world - class engineering expertise . Scotland — and I would extend this to the UK — should be in the vanguard of global development , but we be not . my hon . friend the Member for East Lothian ( Kenny MacAskill ) will make further point on the economic , industrial and environmental case in support of the modest investment in retain the Grangemouth plant , and he have do so in the past , not least with regard to the carbon footprint of offshore refinery activity , as reference by the hon . member for Banff and Buchan . over £ 300 billion in today ' s money have flow from the North sea into the UK Treasury since the oil tap be turn on , and over the come year billion more will be raise . successive UK government have betray North sea worker since 2005 by drag their foot on carbon capture , and even though we now have the welcome green light for the St Fergus Acorn project , it be merely an invitation for finance , not a firm commitment to invest . yet the potential success of large - scale carbon capture be great in the North sea geology than in any other oil province , as Equinor have already demonstrate with the Sleipner field . carbon capture can be at the heart of an energy revolution in Scotland , but political will and investment be require to make it happen , and it be wholly at the mercy of Westminster . I be reluctant to intervene , because the hon . Gentleman be make some interesting point , many of which I agree with , but I have a burn question . he make a point about the amount of storage we have around the UK , which be equivalent to more than we have produce out of the North sea , and we must take advantage of that . in his amendment , he refer to licensing condition for specific field be tie to have a net zero effect through carbon capture and storage . he have already explain that carbon capture and storage be typically take from flue gas from the like of Mossmorran in his constituency , or peterhead power station in mine , so how do he make that link between offshore exploration licence and the resultant carbon capture , which will be way down the production line ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . many of the operator be serious about exploit the resource not just in Scottish or UK water but in other country , and other country can leverage those type of concession when they grant licence . the UK Government can therefore make no serious argument that they can not do that . one of the refrain we hear during the Brexit debate be about the reclaiming of national sovereignty . it be one of the reason for Brexit . one of the most limit factor for job creation in renewable be that contract for difference and european rule prevent conditionality from be apply to the granting of oil , renewable and other licence . if the UK now have that sovereignty , why not use it to ensure that the community that be part of the supply line get some form of benefit out of the process ? one of the most obvious benefit be to reduce at source , through a levy on any licence , the carbon footprint of the exploitation of that resource . that would seem a reasonable expectation , and certainly we feel it be essential in grant any future licence . amendment 15 would create a requirement for a specific field commitment of a net zero carbon footprint , as we have just discuss . that would be achieve mainly through connection to the carbon capture network . the prize be to be a world leader in research and development , with an economy build on renewable energy , of which Scotland have an absolute abundance . the UK Government ' s dither and delay on Acorn have go on for far too long . it be time for Scots Members on the Government Benches and their Government colleague to back a secure future for Scotland ' s North sea oil and gas sector and to back this amendment . this February be on course to break an unprecedented number of heat record , and the danger of fail to reach net zero be stare we in the face . this Bill fly in the face of our climate change commitment , and it will do nothing to secure energy security and nothing to lower energy bill , and we Liberal Democrats continue to oppose it . I will mention two amendment that we strongly support , as they be on area where we Liberal Democrats have table amendment in the past . the Bill be silent about methane and need amend . we therefore strongly support new clause 12 to prevent methane flaring . methane be a potent greenhouse gas with 80 time the warm effect of CO2 . it account for 30 % of global greenhouse gas emission . it have often be see as a quick win . methane stay for much less time in the atmosphere , but it be still there . reduce methane emission be such an obvious thing to do . the UK have sign a global pledge to cut methane level by 30 % , and a ban on oil and gas flaring and venting in the North sea would dramatically reduce methane emission . the International Energy Agency have say that UK oil and gas operator could reduce methane emission by more than 70 % by tackle venting , flare and leak . that be support by the Environmental Audit Committee and the government - commission independent review of net zero . however , the Government ' s track record be not good enough . in his last few day in office , the former Energy Secretary , the right hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) , unconditionally approve the new Affleck oil and gas field , whose operator will be able to burn methane until 2037 . we must also mandate monthly leak detection and repair activity . as we have say in the past , it be incomprehensible why the Government be on the one hand say one thing , but on the other not act . we must do something about methane . it be a complete dereliction of duty if we do not support that new clause . the other amendment I want to speak to new clause 23 , which would insert a new energy charter test . many of my constituent have voice strong concern about our continue to be part of the energy charter treaty . that energy charter test would be meet if we withdraw from the treaty . as it stand , remain part of the treaty leave the UK vulnerable to compensation claim from investor for the early closure of coal , oil and gas plant . attempt to modernise the ECT to protect country from libel and to drive investment in renewable have fail . Denmark , France , Germany , Poland , Slovenia , Spain and the Netherlands have all announce their intention to withdraw . Italy withdraw back in 2016 . why should we not join they ? the new clause provide a vehicle to do that . it be incomprehensible that we have to discuss this Bill . it be a bad Bill , but the amendment I have just mention would make it a little well . I wish to speak primarily to amendment 13 and 14 , but I also support the amendment table by the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) and the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) . may I begin by pay tribute to the newly elect Member , my hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) ? his electoral victory show that party with ambitious climate policy win election , and those that choose to pursue culture war be punish at the ballot box . I hope the Government can learn that lesson in relation to this Bill , which be a textbook example of performative politic . this Bill will not secure british energy independence or help to meet UK or global climate target . we know , because the Energy Secretary tell we so herself , that this Bill will not lower energy bill , yet here we be debate this Bill instead of focus our mind and time on real solution that will accelerate the energy transition that be already happen all around we . that energy transition be not only underpin by a strong scientific consensus to address climate change , but found in a mission to make energy affordable and to unleash new economic opportunity across Britain , particularly in the region leave behind by previous energy transition . I pay tribute to all the worker in oil and gas , who help to keep Britain ' s light on . their hard work over many year power our country , and their skill will be essential in make Britain a clean energy superpower . that be why we must respect those worker , and why we should be truthful with they . they deserve no less than that , and we in the labour movement remember only too well what happen when community be face with the sudden loss of job . we remember the closure of the pit and the community that be leave with nothing , because Government fail to put in place genuine alternative and a just transition . I know that british exceptionalism be almost an article of faith or mantra with this Government , but be the first country that sell the last drop of oil be not a feasible strategy . that be not just because the world sign up to transition away from fossil fuel at COP 28 , but because the North sea be a decline basin that be nearly empty . new licence between now and 2050 will only provide 103 day of gas . that be just four day of gas every year . say that we will expand oil and gas licence in a decline basin and pretend that that will make any real difference to job in the North sea be nothing short of dishonest . it may provide campaigning material to pretend otherwise , but people ' s livelihood be more important than political game playing , and we ought to stick to the fact . it be a fact that , for the past 14 year , the Government have sustain support for new North sea drilling , and in the past decade they have hand out 400 new drilling licence across five separate licensing round . yet it be also a fact that more than 200 , 000 job in and around the wide oil and gas industry have be lose in that same period . no matter where we look , whether it be to the UK Climate Change Committee , the North sea transition deal , EY , Transition Economics or elsewhere , the projection be the same : there will be further decline in oil and gas employment . in fact , research by the University of Aberdeen have find that the decline of oil and gas be already visible in place such as Aberdeen and can not be reverse , regardless of new licensing or other attempt to bolster the oil and gas industry . an honest Bill would set out the fact clearly and seek to manage that transition , not to ignore it . I feel almost oblige to intervene , if only to agree totally with what the hon . Member just say . the Aberdeen University study relate specifically to the decline over previous decade . we have lose a lot of worker in the industry , not just because of the decline in production , but because of new technology and the desire to remotely operate offshore platform in the interest of safety . there have be decline . what he seem to be miss be that we be talk not about a return to the glory day of peak production in the late ' 90 , but manage that decline with reference to how much energy we need . as be mention , we need to promote a Goldilocks period in which we make the most of the skill and technology in that industry for the renewable - base future . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to say that we must manage the decline , but we must manage the decline in the community ' s livelihood , which be not necessarily the same thing . if we make sure that we have a just transition , and introduce support for retrain and gain skill , as outline in the amendment that I be support , he will find that his constituent and many other around the country will much well weather that decline and prepare for the sort of future that we want . the Bill , unfortunately , do the opposite . it ignore the 30 , 000 hard - work people directly employ in today ' s oil and gas industry , and the further 100 , 000 individual support by the supply chain . it provide false hope . it send confusing signal to energy company , to investor , to the global community , and indeed to union and the worker they represent . it pretend that nothing need to change — that business can continue as usual , and that job in oil and gas be safe . the Government be act as if maxe out the North sea can happen indefinitely , or at least until they be no long in office and therefore do not have to pick up the piece . amendment 14 set out the need for formalise collective agreement with union and the workforce to create just transition plan . in Spain , we have see what can be achieve when government , business , worker and union come together . the just transition agreement that the spanish Government have negotiate with affected worker , union and business be popular , economically responsible and environmentally sound . it be a settlement for all involved . that be the approach that ought to be take in the North sea . the region need a new settlement , in which : there be an increase in domestic manufacturing ; a new generation of renewable , such as green hydrogen , turbocharge employment in energy - intensive industry ; the technology of carbon capture , usage and storage and the UK ' s unique storage capacity for sequester carbon can provide a new service that be exportable to the world ; the benefit of the energy system be share fairly ; job be truly safe and secure ; and , above all , those community who be once the proud purveyor of our fossil fuel energy become our proud sequesterer of the world ' s emission and the champion of the renewable powerhouse of the future . before I conclude , I want to mention one further spurious reason that the Government have put forward to justify the Bill : that it stop we from be dependent on oil and gas from dictatorial regime such as Russia . yesterday in the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) point out that a loophole in our sanction regime mean that country such as China and India import russian crude oil , process it and then sell it to the UK as refined oil . in 2023 , we import 5 . 2 million barrel of that oil . that mean we send something like £ 141 million in tax revenue to the Kremlin ' s war chest . Britain be also the big insurer of russian oil move by sea , most of which be sell at price well above the price cap , again violate sanction . if the Government really want to stop such dependence , they could tighten the sanction regime — they know how to do so , but they do not . I will not vote for this piece of 20th - century legislation that instruct the House to look backwards and not forwards . I will not vote to make Britain cold and poor . I will not vote to increase flooding . I will not vote to leave community and worker behind . I will not vote to lock volatile fossil fuel into our already break energy system . sadly , we must wait for a future Parliament — and , I trust , a future Government . I look forward to work with member from across the House in pursuit of those goal . I rise to support amendment 15 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) , and in particular subsection ( b ) to propose new section ( 1za ) , which relate to Grangemouth . there be something perverse and absurd about use scottish oil if Scotland ' s refinery be to close . we have to transition . it have to be a just transition , which can not just be a glib phrase . it must also be pace , because we can not get there overnight . in my constituency of East Lothian , we can see the turbine on the Lammermuirs , and we can see they grow in number daily , and the growth in the number of column , as offshore wind capacity come . but we require fossil fuel to deliver that renewable capacity . we require diesel for the truck , and marine diesel for the ship , out set the column and turbine . we also require the plastic that go with much of that . so we need to continue use and exploit oil to get to a renewable future . we have to do so at a pace that be appropriate , but also ensure that our country benefit . that be why subsection ( b ) be so important . there be something perverse in the fact that Scotland be energy - rich , yet people face fuel poverty . in my constituency , we be not see the benefit in employment that should come from be in a county that be so energy - rich . the county face the same problem as Scotland : it be energy - rich , yet people can only look wistfully at the turbine offshore , while they be unable to pay their bill . we must ensure that we get job and work here . the refinery at Grangemouth be pivotal to that . I grow up not in East Lothian but in West Lothian . the Grangemouth refinery have be there for a century — since 1924 — not for North sea oil but for its precursor : the shale industry , which be centre in West Lothian , from which come BP , Paraffin Young and other . BP be the centrepiece , along with Imperial Chemical Industries in its various iteration ; it be now petroineo . the refinery initially deal with the shale industry , but , once North sea oil be discover , we use it for that oil . the Forties pipeline come ashore from the North sea at Cruden Bay , and oil be pipe down to Grangemouth because it be mean to be refine there . Grangemouth be also capable of refine oil from elsewhere : a pipeline run from Finnart in Argyll through to Grangemouth , which allow oil import from abroad to be refine in Scotland . yet we face a situation where unless we support the amendment , Grangemouth refinery will likely close . although a spat have be go on between the SNP , Labour and the Tories about the North sea and its oil , little have be say about what be happen at Grangemouth . the threat have be grow , and action from the Government both here and in Scotland have be in inverse proportion to that . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will have hear I reference Grangemouth and its future in my contribution . I support his ambition to maintain our hydrocarbon future at Grangemouth , as long as it can be sustain economically and environmentally . do he agree that if we be to prevent the jeopardy that worker at Grangemouth face from ever re - emerge , we need to make sure that sustainable aviation fuel , biofuel and hydrogen be an integral part of Grangemouth ' s output ? we need to ensure that they overlap with hydrocarbon and leave they behind . I have have discussion with the shop steward and union , whom the Scottish Government may wish to follow and not brush off with cursory meeting . we want a biofuel strategy for Grangemouth , but that be for some significant time in the future . unless we act now , the refinery could close in 2025 . biofuel will not be refine in Grangemouth or anywhere else in 2025 . the shop steward and the union wish we to get to biofuel , and Grangemouth must be declare a hub for that , but if it be to survive until then , we must ensure that it be a refinery , not simply a terminal , and that we maintain those skill . it be absurd that we will continue to exploit Scotland ' s oil , yet its refinery will close . there be something perverse about that . Scotland will be the only major oil - produce nation in the world — we be rank no . 21 along with the UK in the top 25 oil producer — that do not have a refinery capacity . that will put we with large develop country that produce less oil . we will join a club host by the like of the Republic of Congo and Trinidad and Tobago . I be sure that they be lovely country — I have never visit — but they be not develop nation with an industrial economy . the danger be that we will become a develop nation , in term of our industrial base . it be not simply about the refinery — the job there be important . five hundred could go , and thousand of contractor . it be a cluster . that be why I talk about BP and Imperial Chemical Industries — because ICI cluster where BP refine . petroineo and other now do it , and we have to maintain that . first , it be fundamentally wrong that Scotland should , as a nation , lose its refinery capacity . secondly , it be absurd that , in this world in which we see rocket attack on maritime vessel , we risk our energy security . the oil that go in and out of the Clyde or the River Forth will not necessarily be subject to attack by Houthis , but our energy security be lessen if we do not have and produce our own oil . let we remember that 70 % of Scotland ' s fill station be provide by Grangemouth . the entirety of Scotland ' s aviation would be threaten , and not just international flight , because in Scotland , domestic flight to Ireland and remote community be vital . we would have no control over that and no impact on it . energy security dictate it , and so do the economy . the loss of skill have happen in previous industrial closure , such as the coal mine or Ravenscraig . we must remember that it be not just the current generation who lose those job . I grow up , many year ago now , not far from Grangemouth . when people leave school , if they do not go to the pit , a lot of they go to BP and ICI . petroineo and its predecessor train a lot of people who have skill in industry that we require , even if they only work there for a few month after their apprenticeship . this be a loss of skill not simply for one generation but for future generation . it be a loss to a country that badly require skilled labour because we have a shortage of it . the young workforce there know that there will not be alternative employment by nip along the M9 or the m8 . many will have to go south or go abroad . our nation will lose as a result . there be argument about the extent of the economic devastation . the 4 % put forward by Petroineos be too high , but it be certainly approach 1 % of scottish GDP that would be lose by the refinery become a terminal . that be simply unacceptable . there be the economic argument , but there be also the environmental argument . those who oppose the continue use of refining have to bear that in mind . People say , " the emission at Grangemouth be dreadful . " have grow up there , I know that there be emission , and the plant have take action , but the footprint will be bad . I do some research , and the House of Commons Library be very supportive . the emission that come from the refinery at Grangemouth would be replace and supersede gargantuanly by bring supertanker in and out . oil will go out , come ashore at Grangemouth from the Forties pipeline , to be bring back in by another supertanker and sell in Scotland . we will face the ignominy of lose the skilled job , then have to pay a premium for the oil we import and have significant emission . People have see the quotation for the emission that come from a cruise liner in comparison with a private car — thousand , if not ten of thousand , of private car . it be exactly the same for a supertanker . the average supertanker use 20 , 000 gallon of marine diesel every day . we will increase the number of ship go out and come in . it be not just in the firth of Forth ; we will be import into Finnart in Argyll , because that be part of the plan , have lose the refinery capacity . the bonny bank of the Clyde will not be so bonny when supertanker be come in . what about the consideration of the risk ? I ask a parliamentary question about that , and there seem to be no risk . what about the environmental risk of increase traffic on the Forth and the Clyde ? if there be spillage or an accident with a vessel , we do not want to be another Alaska . ship have to come in and out . at the end of the day , if we have a refinery capacity , we should use it and we should maximise it because it guarantee economic security and retain the economic base of an industrial and developed country . it be environmentally more sensible to refine it there with reduce emission than to spew out a carbon footprint in supertanker go hither and thither out of the Forth and the Clyde around the UK , and indeed around the whole of northern Europe , if not beyond . on that basis , it be about time that we commit into statute that Scotland ' s oil will be refine in Scotland ' s refinery . our worker and our country should expect no less . it be not a great deal of money that be be seek — we be talk about ten of million to provide the hydrocracker that will increase profitability threefold , which the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) should take into account . if we do not get that hydrocracker go , we will not have a plant by the time biofuel be bring into consideration . it be for that reason that of the £ 6 . 1 billion that the UK Government will get in receipt from the North sea , a modicum or a fraction must be put into ensure that petroineo or its successor remain in Grangemouth . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate this afternoon , which have be wide - range , well informed and genuinely interesting . I thank member from across the Committee for their participation and for play an important role in scrutinise this important piece of legislation . before I move on to specific amendment I will , if you allow I , Dame Rosie , briefly outline the importance of this Bill . the UK lead the world on tackle climate change , and be the first major economy to halve emission . the Bill will protect job , tax receipt and sovereign capability , so that we can continue that world leadership . as one of the world ' s most decarbonised major economy , the UK remain dependent on oil and gas and will continue to be , albeit in reduce amount , accord to the Climate Change Committee . even when we be at net zero in 2050 , we will require oil and gas . however , we be a net importer and , as have be discuss , UK production be fall fast . the ambition of the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) to destroy UK supply ignore industry , the union and his own back Benchers , and would simply replace UK oil and gas with high - emission import . that be at the heart of this ; that be why we want to pass this legislation — it be because of the policy of the party opposite . the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) look a little confused . the party opposite be very clear that they want to end new licensing , and we would thus have to import more from abroad . it be as simple as that . that would mean more LNG , which have four time the embed emission of domestically produce gas . that be the reality . that be at the heart of the Bill ; that be why it be so important that we legislate today to send a signal to industry that continue fast - decline production in the North sea be the right thing to do environmentally , economically , in term of tax — on every front . if it be not , we should not and would not do it . will the Minister give way ? I will make a little more progress . annual licensing will improve our energy security and that of our neighbour . it will support 200 , 000 job and safeguard billion in tax revenue and , as my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) set out so well , it will safeguard the skill need for successful energy transition . hon . member can listen to everyone from Offshore Energies UK to Robert Gordon University for evidence of the need for that . these thing be not in tension ; they mutually complement each other and need to be support . be the Minister go to give way ? I promise to come to the hon . Gentleman before I finish . turn to the amendment select today , I first thank my right hon . friend the Member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) for amendment 12 on flare and venting . as have be discuss , the guidance from the North Sea Transition Authority be clear that all new development should be plan on the basis of zero routine flaring and venting . the Government have already commit to end routine flaring and venting by 2030 , go far than the World Bank ' s zero routine flaring initiative . that voluntary North sea transition deal be reap reward . base on the late datum , North sea flaring be down 50 % since 2018 , and the sector be on track to deliver the 2030 target . I fear that the amendment would risk replace voluntary momentum with a slow , compliance - base , more resistant approach from industry . however , I will continue to engage with my right hon . friend as the Bill move to the other place , with a view to deliver the end of flare and venting by 2030 at the late , which be an ambition he and I share , as do the Government . with that , if the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) have not lose his mojo and his moment , I shall give way to he . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way , and no — I would not lose my mojo on this . we all know that there be 110 % more oil and gas already in the world than we can use if we be to remain within the 1 . 5 ° C threshold . do the Minister think the climate really care where that oil and gas be use ? his argument about import imply that he do believe that the atmosphere care . the damage will be do ; the only way we can reduce its impact be by ensure that the propose additional exploration licence be not achieve . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . he have take a long and deep interest in this issue , for which I pay he respect . it be the burning of oil and gas that be the primary issue . he mention 110 % — we probably have 200 % , 300 % or 400 % . there be country set out to massively increase their production . that be all drive by demand . if we — as a species , as a globe — be to get to net zero , we will have to cap well all over the world . we will have to leave it in the ground . the most important thing be to ensure that the demand curve be go in the right direction . despite all the issue , challenge and difficulty of maintain our role as the lead major economy in cut emission , the UK ' s big challenge in deal with climate change be not domestic , despite the difficulty of that ; it be to get other to join we on a net zero pathway . the idea of produce our own emission to ever - low standard and replace they with high - emission product from abroad be for the bird . it make no sense . will the Minister give way ? I be go to press on . [ interruption . ] I do not mean to be rude , but I think I be unlikely , give his previous performance , to be terribly afeare of hear from the hon . member for Angus . I turn to a series of amendment that seek to place condition on when oil and gas licensing round be run . amendment 15 relate to carbon capture , usage and storage , and the Grangemouth refinery . the oil and gas sector provide a significant portion of the investment that the UK need to go into wind , ccus and hydrogen , and I fear that the amendment would drive that investment elsewhere . it would also tie UK production of oil and natural gas to the refining activity of one refinery — Grangemouth — which I be sure member across the House would agree be neither practical nor desirable . amendment 22 and 24 would result in an inconsistent approach between oil and gas licensing and our ambition for domestic energy efficiency . the Government already have a clear aim for as many home as possible to reach energy performance certificate band c by 2035 where cost - effective , affordable and practical . that be the minimum standard require to replace fossil fuel boiler with low - carbon heating such as heat pump . on amendment 23 and 25 , we be already review our energy charter treaty membership . as far as we be concern , there be no long a clear route for modernisation . we will update the House in due course . new clause 2 be table by my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , who be right to highlight the importance of achieve strategic co - existence between different use while maintain environmental protection . work be under way to ensure that we strike the right balance between our different marine priority . the soon - to - be - commission strategic spatial energy plan and cross - government marine spatial prioritisation programme will ensure , as she rightly outline , that we take a strategic approach to identify future site for marine development and energy infrastructure , and that these can co - exist with our environmental and wide marine priority . I appreciate what my hon . friend seek to achieve and assure she that the Government share her desire to protect the marine environment — not least , of course , in the Celtic sea . amendment 2 , 3 , 13 and 18 seek to add an additional climate test to the Bill . the UK produce far less oil and gas than we need , and even with new licence , production be expect to decline fast than the average that be require globally to align with the UN ' s 1 . 5 ° c pathway . all that this test would do be stop license and increase dependence on import product like LNG , which have production emission that be four time high than those of domestically produce gas . the right hon . member for Doncaster North know this — he must — so what , other than ideology and a desire to please his just stop oil backer , could lead he to table an amendment that could raise emission , lose british job and hammer our economy ? truly , it be a mystery . my right hon . friend be make a powerful speech . be the reality not that reduce producer emission in this country only to increase reliance on import consumer emission be entirely counterproductive for the environment and very damaging in term of public support for the direction of travel ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . that be the absurdity : end licence will simply increase our import . it will not change our consumption . if import such as liquefy natural gas have high emission embed in they , they be counter to our net zero aim . I now turn to amendment 8 and 9 , which together add a new energy and job security test to the Bill . the test , with its complex set of criterion , would damage investor confidence and cause confusion for industry , risk our energy security , job , and the skill and investment need for the green transition we all want to see . it would make our system of administration of this area as opaque as the answer the hon . member for Angus give to straightforward question early . amendment 10 , 11 , 13 and 14 introduce additional just transition test to the Bill . we be absolutely clear on the importance of achieve a net zero basin by 2050 and be on track to deliver that . we need the skill , expertise and resource of the oil and gas industry to support our transition to clean technology , maintain oil and gas job so that they be not lose before renewable and other clean technology grow to take up those skill . amendment 19 and 20 would alter the propose carbon intensity test to include an assessment of all import natural gas . provide the buffer source of supply last winter , liquefy natural gas be critical to meet supply and demand fluctuation . despite the expect fall in gas demand and continue North sea production in both the UK and Norway , we be go to become more reliant on LNG import , which be , as I have say , four time more pollute than produce our own gas . if we produce less domestically , we import more LNG . it be very simple and why a comparison with LNG be the right one to make . amendment 21 would require the Secretary of State to report on how the carbon intensity test would be affect by include gas other than carbon dioxide . international initiative be under way to expand the scope of emission monitoring datum , so if and when those effort bear fruit , we can use the power in section 4 of the Petroleum Act 1998 to amend the test and bring in other greenhouse gas , as colleague across the Committee have mention . until then , it will not assist Parliament or the public to produce a report about something that be not realistically possible due to a lack of international emission monitor datum for gas beyond CO2 . it be just worth say that , overwhelmingly , the greenhouse gas footprint of our North sea production be CO2 and not those other gas . the Bill provide certainty for industry to keep invest in ever clean , though always decline , UK oil and gas production as we transition to reach net zero . fail to support the Bill could forfeit ten of billion in tax revenue , which the opposition have no plan to replace any more than they have any idea how to fund their " here today , go tomorrow , maybe it be back again " apparently vital £ 28 billion plan which be no more . it would betray the 200 , 000 british worker who depend on a healthy oil and gas sector to make a living , and it would mean more reliance on import LNG with four time high production emission than domestically produce gas . I be grateful to hon . member for the interest they have take in the Bill and the valuable scrutiny they have bring to it . I hope they be reassure by what I have outline , and that they feel able to withdraw their amendment . on that basis , I call on all member to support the Bill . I have listen intently to the Minister and I welcome his willingness to work together on the issue of flaring and venting . what I do not hear from he be the clarity that I want on whether Government would look to introduce an amendment similar to amendment 12 in the other place . perhaps that be something we can discuss before the Bill return to this House . indicate assent . I be delighted to see the Minister nod . I would just point out that even if the government do not support a similar amendment in the other place , I be fairly confident that a similar amendment will be move and I expect support in the other place . this place will then have the opportunity to opine on that particular amendment , so I will not divide the Committee on this occasion . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . Amendment propose : 10 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the just transition test ( see section 4zd ) " . — ( Dave Doogan . ) this pave amendment , together with Amendment 11 , introduce a new test to be apply by the OGA before invite application for seaward new production licence . Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Steven Bonnar Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake David Linden John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Peter Grant Kirsty Blackman Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Damien Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Gagan Mohindra the Committee divide : Ayes 44 , Noes 285 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 17 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the climate change test ( see section 4zd ) " . — ( Dr Whitehead . ) question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Alan Brown Lyn Brown Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Colleen Fletcher Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Damien Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Gagan Mohindra the Committee divide : Ayes 226 , Noes 287 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be my great pleasure to thank everyone who have support the progress of the Bill . I recognise the excellent contribution of member from across the House who have engage closely with this important piece of legislation . I thank those on the Government Benches who speak for their engagement with the Bill . in particular , I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , and my hon . friend the Members for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , and for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) , for their contribution and the excellent point that they have raise in Committee . I also welcome the robust scrutiny from the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) , the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) , who speak for the scottish nationalist , the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) , and for East Lothian ( Kenny MacAskill ) , who represent the Alba party , and other . I thank they all for their participation . I also pay tribute to my official for their work over these past month , as well to parliamentary Counsel for their commendable work , the House authority , parliamentary staff , Clerks and Doorkeepers . the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill will give industry the certainty that it need to continue to invest in the North sea , to strengthen our energy security and to support the transition to net zero . the UK be lead the world on our journey to net zero emission . we have the fast reduction in emission of any major economy — of any member of the G20 on the planet . in fact , we recently celebrate not only fulfil and even exceed the target of the sixth carbon budget come out of the landmark Climate Change Act 2008 , but officially halve our emission since 1990 ; we be the first major economy on the planet to do so . even when we have reach net zero in 2050 , oil and gas will still play an important part in meet our energy need , as datum from the Climate Change Committee show . as the most decarbonised major economy in the world , 75 % of our primary energy come from oil and gas . those who work in the North sea produce oil and gas — there be 200 , 000 job support by the industry — should not be ashamed of what they do . it be the demand end — our car , our home and our factory — that we need to change . we need to meet that challenge ; like Don Quixote , we will be tilt at windmill if we , a net importer , try to make our production the problem , rather than demand . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , who could not be with we early , but be very welcome now , ask I for the evidence of that . the evidence be that we have cut our emission more than any other major economy . that be not what I be ask . the Minister say that we need to look at demand ; where be the national insulation programme , so that we can insulate all our home and reduce demand in that way ? there isn ' t one . the hon . Lady may not have be present for the previous stage of this Bill , but as she have be present for other debate in this House , I can not claim that she be an absentee member , so it be extraordinary that she be unaware of the amazing transformation in insulation in this country since 2010 . be she not aware that , in 2010 , just 14 % of home be decently insulate ? today , the figure be well over 50 % . we be spend £ 6 . 5 billion in this Parliament , and will commit another £ 6 billion between 2025 and 2028 , precisely to deliver the transformation that she call for . on top of that , we have the eco scheme , and obligation on industry . that be how we have take ourselves from the parlous , shameful situation leave behind by the Labour party in 2010 to one where , although there be still much more to do , 50 % of home be decently insulate . the Minister be very kind to come to my constituency in Northern Ireland to look at the potential scheme for sea turbine and the contract for difference arrangement . at the time , he indicate that , whenever the Assembly be up and run , the contract for difference scheme would be the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Assembly . he be very keen and eager to assist the Assembly . be it his intention to contact the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that the CfD scheme can be promote ? his input into that will make a big difference . I thank the hon . Gentleman , who be a consistent champion not only for his constituent but for the clean transition . I look forward to meet and work with the new Minister for the Economy , who I believe have the energy portfolio in Northern Ireland . the Bill will give industry the certainty that it need to continue invest in the North sea , to strengthen our energy security , and to support the transition to net zero . the Government ' s position be clear : we should , as far as possible , seek to meet continue UK demand for oil and gas from the UK ' s own source . that mean continue to use the North sea — a UK success story that have contribute billion of pound in tax revenue and support an industry of around 200 , 000 worker . the oil and gas industry , with its strong supply chain , expertise and skill , be vital to drive forward the net zero transition and the investment in clean technology that we need to meet our net zero target . we all want the energy transition deliver in an orderly way that do not risk thousand of those job . artificially reduce our production from the North sea or ban new licensing would do just that and jeopardise the energy transition , our progress towards net zero and our climate leadership , not to mention the billion of pound in lose tax revenue . the Bill be about ensure a smooth and orderly transition . new licence award under the Bill will manage the decline in domestic oil and gas production , rather than increase production above current level , and they will give industry certainty by send a strong signal of support for continued investment in the sector — investment that be necessary both for our energy security and to help deliver the energy transition . I commend the Bill to the House . it be customary on Third Reading to start with thank , and I would like to thank two group of people . first , I thank the civil servant who hold their nose to write this pile of rubbish for the House ' s consideration . secondly , I thank the Government for introduce the Bill , because as a number of people will know , it have lead directly to the election of a new Labour Member of Parliament for Kingswood , follow the resignation of the former Government climate tsar , who write the net zero report and have this to say about the Bill : " this bill would in effect allow more frequent new oil and gas licence and the increase production of new fossil fuel in the North Sea … I can also no long condone nor continue to support a government that be commit to a course of action that I know be wrong and will cause future harm . " he then resign , and the rest be history . thank you , Minister , for increase labour ' s representation in this Chamber by one seat . although we hope to have a lot more seat in the very near future , that be progress . the Minister have form on this . he be the Minister in the Adjournment debate on fracke some while ago — it be not an Adjournment debate — get it right ! sorry ; the Opposition day debate on fracke , which effectively bring down the Truss Government as a result of the various prevarication at the time . I thank the Minister for that . what I do not thank the Minister for be the completely misleading and almost erroneous way in which he have characterise the future under the Bill . on licence , the Bill will do thing that be already do , and it will not make any change . it will not suddenly increase confidence across the sector , because the sector know that the Bill be just a piece of performative theatre ; and it will do nothing — contrary to what the Minister and other have claim — to cut energy bill , tackle the cost of live or improve our energy security . at a time when people across this country have suffer two year of crush energy cost and an inflationary crisis drive in large part by our significant exposure to gas price — which , as we all know by now , be set internationally — the Bill offer no solution . the Secretary of State herself admit that it would not cut bill , and Lord Browne , the former chief executive officer of British Petroleum , say that it be " not go to not make any difference " to energy security . the board of the North Sea Transition Authority , which be responsible for give out licence , unanimously agree that the Bill be unnecessary and would challenge its independence . however , even though the Bill will achieve none of its state aim , it be far from consequence - free . Offshore Energies UK have say that if labour ' s policy be implement , it could cost this country 42 , 000 job and £ 26 billion of economic value . perhaps the shadow Minister will respond to that consequence . we be talk about what the Government be do through this policy — that be what we be concentrate on today . I hope we will have another much wide debate about the effect that a comprehensive transition policy for the whole North sea field would have , with associate arrangement for the transition of investment , energy security and worker and job security , in the context of future job and future energy security . many people in the industry have already say that that be exactly what we need to secure the future of the North sea . it be a decline basin ; its output will not change greatly as a result of the measure that the Government be propose . on the other hand , unless urgent action be take to secure a holistic transition for the North sea , it certainly will not have the investment and the future that so many of we want to see . we need to put that overall consideration alongside some people ' s short - term concern about what will happen to the oil and gas industry right this minute . this have be an extremely crucial issue in the north - east of Scotland , particularly this week . do the shadow Minister think it be a small , short - term problem that 42 , 000 highly skilled worker in that area could lose their job under Labour ' s plan ? they will not . I have try to make it very clear , against what be , frankly , misinformed scaremongere by Government Members , that under Labour ' s plan the North sea will , of course , continue to produce efficiently and effectively over a very long period of time . we know that the North sea be a very mature field and be in decline , and all authority have say that the Government ' s proposal would make no difference to that overall pattern . we be look at how to make sure that the North sea continue to produce well and efficiently the oil and gas we will need for the future in decline amount , while at the same time transform that economy to produce new form of energy for the future and maintain security of production . that will be the big task for the future Labour Government — I be pleased that the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) be envisage what the new Labour Government will shortly have to do . the long - term task in the North sea be not to pump every last drop of oil and gas it contain , but to give it a new lease of life . new industry can come into the North sea alongside the infrastructure that already exist , make it a new energy powerhouse for the UK in the future . I can not let that go unchallenged . this letter from the Aberdeen and Grampian chamber of commerce to the Leader of the Opposition — the leader of the Labour party in the UK — say that " if North Sea production be to cease prematurely — a certain outcome of this " labour " policy — then our entire energy transition be undermine . " this have massive consequence , and I have to say that the reaction of the shadow Minister be quite tell . the hon . Member rather give himself away by the first sentence he read out : " if North Sea production be to cease " . north sea production will not cease — it be " a certain outcome of this policy " . north sea production will not cease over a long period of time , and Labour be committed to make sure that that production continue at the appropriate level for the maturity of the North sea basin . that be something that all sensible people understand to be the case , although it be unfortunate that certain conservative Members pretend it be not the case for their own political purpose . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress . the Bill , as I have say , will achieve none of its state aim , but it be far from consequence - free . the consequence be that it make a mockery of our country ' s commitment to take serious and responsible action on climate change . that be exactly the point the former right hon . member for Kingswood , Chris Skidmore , make in his resignation letter to the Prime Minister . that point should not be a partisan point . indeed , it have not be a partisan point , because a number of member on all side of the House , include a number of Conservative Members , can see the direction in which this short - sighted Prime Minister and Government be go , and want no part of it . some member be try to make change to the Bill . as I have say , one have resign , and a number be work hard to turn around the direction of this Government in resile from our country ' s climate change commitment — commitment they so recently sign up to , at the recent cop — on move away from oil and gas . regrettably , the Prime Minister and the Government , include this Minister , be not have any part of that . I be particularly disappointed that the Minister be not have any part of it , because of his long and honourable commitment to these matter on the international stage over such a long time . the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , the man who lead this country ' s climate negotiation at COP26 in Glasgow , have call the Bill " smoke and mirror " , and a " distraction " that will " reinforce the unfortunate perception of the UK ' s row back from climate action " . — [ Official Report , 22 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 52 . ] the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , the former Prime Minister — she sign this country ' s net zero commitment into law and understand , as the current Prime Minister sadly do not , the value of cross - party consensus on the science of climate change — have say that she take a different view from the Government on oil and gas licence , and that they will not provide for our energy security . away from this Chamber , every credible independent expert have take a dim view of the Bill . Lord Stern , one of the UK ' s foremost expert on climate change , whose work have shape how the world understand the cost of inaction , have call the Bill a " deeply damaging mistake " . the reality be that the cost of living crisis we be in be to a large extent cause by our country ' s deep exposure to the volatile international price of gas . the International Monetary Fund have say that this exposure mean the UK be hard hit by the crisis than any other western nation . just today , the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit have find that this country have spend an additional — in addition to normal spending — £ 75 billion on gas since the energy crisis begin . four extra day of gas supply by 2050 can not possibly make the slight bit of difference to this price . as I have highlight , the Secretary of State herself concede that point on the very day the Bill be announce . the suppose argument on energy security and job be similarly flimsy . the reality be that , as we have begin to discuss this afternoon , the North sea be an extremely mature and decline basin . gas production will fall by 95 % by 2050 , even with new licence . the notion that this be a firm basis on which to build our energy security or protect job be clearly absurd . as I have outline , we need a fair and balanced transition for North sea oil and gas worker that recognise the essential role they will continue to play in operate exist field , which no one dispute will remain a vital part of our energy mix , and put they at the heart of our clean energy future . to safeguard the job , skill and livelihood of the community that have be the backbone of our energy system for decade , we need a Government with a proper industrial strategy to maximise the low - carbon economic potential of the North sea . labour will create a national wealth fund to invest in low - carbon industry , it will launch a british job bonus to ensure that the supply chain benefit of renewable investment finally come to our shore , and it will create a new publicly own energy company , GB Energy , headquarter in Scotland , to invest in home - grow clean energy and give we real energy independence . that be the answer that the country need and that the community who have serve as the backbone of our energy system for decade need . political theatre , whether in Westminster or Holyrood , help no one and do a disservice to the people look to we for answer to the very real challenge we all face . the final argument that the Government have make in favour of the Bill be that it be somehow , as we have begin to unwrap , a climate - positive piece of legislation . this argument rest on a series of partial and deliberately gameable test , as we discuss in Committee , with skewed condition that look only at a narrow band of emission , ignore methane for example ; that look only at production emission , ignore the impact of actually burn the fuel we be extract ; and that look only at liquefy natural gas , ignore the fact that the majority of our import be pipeline - deliver . it include no test whatsoever for oil , which make up the majority of remain reserve . that be why I have sympathy for the civil servant who write the Bill , who have to squeeze various thing into it such as ignore gas that be come into pipeline , only have test against liquefied gas and ignore the methane emission in the various version of the arrangement in place for measure emission from production . I be very disappointed that the Minister give no reaction at all this afternoon to that particular point on methane . the datum simply do not exist , as I think I set out . it do not exist and we can not make a comparison if the data do not exist . we be world - lead in have that datum ; other do not have it . on the methane comparison , we be already below the internationally set goal ; we have very low methane emission in the North sea . on the comparison with LNG — which be the buffer fuel , which be why it be the true comparator , rather than norwegian gas , which the hon . Gentleman be fail to admit — methane be emit as it be ship , so the methane story would make it even bad for LNG versus domestically produce fuel . perhaps the hon . Gentleman would put that into his argument . I would not put it into my argument , but I be a little puzzled under those circumstance that the North Sea Transition Authority recently publish a factsheet on precisely this point about the relative emission of various contributor to gas and oil into the UK , which look at the contribution from various country and at the various emission level of those contribution , and set out how those contribution arise . I do not know whether the Minister be quite up to date with what his own North Sea Transition Authority be do , but perhaps he ought to have a little look at that because he would see that actually the data be there . it do exist , and we can draw the sort of conclusion I draw this afternoon from it , and indeed from a number of other international data source that be come in . the argument that the marginal unit of gas must always be LNG be simply not correct , because the Bill make no provision whatsoever for the shape of UK gas demand at the point at which the gas be extract and use . it effectively assume that our national demand for gas will remain unchanged in perpetuity . when we be in a crisis cause by our reliance on fossil fuel and commit to a net zero transition , that assumption be patently wrong . I hesitate to intervene again , but to suggest that this Bill have the assumption that our gas demand remain the same be absolute nonsense . of course it be come right down . we be on a net zero pathway . we be lead the world in that and our demand be fall fast ; it be just that our production will fall even fast . the hon . Gentleman should not mislead the House , and I be sure he would not want to do so . I think I have already indicate that gas production be predict to fall by 95 % by 2050 . the addition of one or two licence will not make any difference at all to that precipitous fall in practice , as it will be four day more of gas over the period . that be the basis for why we say that the Government ' s commitment to net zero transition while produce large amount of additional gas and oil be patently wrong . we should be sprint towards clean energy . we should be invest in renewable , rather than ban they , as the Conservatives have do with onshore wind . we should be save the country billion by move to decarbonise power system by 2030 and make far great effort to insulate home and reduce gas demand there . on climate change , on energy security , on job and on bill , this Bill have nothing to offer but false promise that frankly insult the public ' s intelligence . to support this Bill , we would need to believe that we can double down on the cause of the cost of live crisis and still solve it ; that we can somehow defy geology in the North sea and change the fundamental nature of international energy market ; and that we can ignore all the science and credible expert on climate change and still meet our commitment , include our commitment to transition away from fossil fuel make by the Minister at COP28 a few short month ago . it be clearly nonsense , but it be emblematic of a Government who have run out of idea and run out of road — a Government who can see the many real challenge our country face , but have no answer to they beyond confect political drama . in their misguided pursuit of a political dividing line , they have shrink our country on the international stage , make we hypocrite in the eye of the world and open the door in this country to a new divisive politic on climate change that I sincerely believe the Ministers sit opposite I today be not comfortable with , do not want as their legacy and will come to regret profoundly . this Bill will deliver nothing , but it threaten much . for that reason , I urge the House to vote against it . it have be interesting follow the process of this Bill . I speak on Second Reading , and I sit through most of the Committee today , and I be pleased to speak on Third reading to support the proposal bring forward by this UK Conservative Government — the only party support our vital oil and gas industry across the United Kingdom , and particularly in the north of Scotland . my constituent in Moray , many of whom work in the oil and gas industry , will be shock and annoy by what we have hear today from those on the SNP Benches and by the deeply disappointing remark we have just hear from the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) on the Labour Front Bench . if he think that " misinformed scaremongere " from Offshore Energies UK and from Aberdeen chamber of commerce do not deserve to be raise in this Chamber , he be gravely wrong . I think it be an indication of labour ' s position . it have already turn its back on the oil and gas industry in Scotland , and by the sound of thing it will only get bad . [ interruption . ] he be look quizzical , but let we just look at what be happen in Scotland now and at some of the coverage . I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman be a regular reader of the Press and Journal , but its front page make clear what people in the north - east of Scotland think about Labour ' s proposal . the Scottish Sun say that people in Scotland could wave goodbye to ten of thousand of job . that be not the paper or the opposition just say that ; it be paper report what expert in the field be say . we know that the Labour party change its policy quickly , and I can only hope this be another of those , because its action be have a deeply damaging effect . be these policy ever implement , they would have a huge impact on the oil and gas sector and the people who work in it and rely on that oil and gas production . ten of thousand of job and livelihood be at risk . as we often want to articulate our own view in this Chamber , I think it be only right that we repeat some of the concern raise by the industry . offshore Energies UK ' s chief executive Dave Whitehouse be someone who must be listen to on this subject . I meet he recently on a visit to Aberdeen . he say that Labour ' s proposal " would deliver a hammer blow to the energy we need today and to the homegrown transition " . he also say : " these be not faceless number but decent , hardworke people work across the UK to provide the energy we will need today and in the future . " that be an expert view on the labour proposal . Aberdeen chamber of commerce have describe Labour ' s plan as a " betrayal " . Chris Wheaton , an oil and gas analyst , say : " the uncertainty create by threaten new windfall taxis be as bad as the tax itself . " perhaps most powerfully of all , last week , more than 800 individual , firm and trade group write to the Leader of the Opposition to express their deep concern about what be be speak about by the Labour party . sadly , in Scotland , we can not get a cigarette paper between the Labour party and the SNP . it be almost as if they be in a race to decimate our oil and gas industry and want to outmanoeuvre each other . both support a windfall tax . both oppose the Rosebank field . both be speak about dangerous proposal — [ interruption . ] liberal Democrat Members think that be funny . I be sorry , but I do not think it be funny that ten of thousand of job across Scotland be under threat . I take that issue extremely seriously . speak about the SNP , I try to get this out on Second Reading and in Committee . I be delighted that the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) be still in his place , because we have to get to the bottom of this . I ask he to intervene on I and explain whether he , as the MP for Angus , represent a north - east constituency , believe further licence should or should not be grant for production of oil and gas in the North sea . I do not know about you , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I have just about hear enough from the hon . member today . for the fourth time , Government Members ' association between the number of licence issue and the number of oil and gas job protect be specious at well . we have be accuse by they — include , I think , the hon . member — of want to put the oil and gas industry in Scotland to the sword . there be no such plan . the leader of the SNP and Scotland ' s First Minister Humza Yousaf be in Aberdeen just yesterday talk about how scottish oil and gas worker must never be leave behind . I be disappoint in the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) — I think more of he — misquote Humza Yousaf , who say that he would rather Aberdeen be not the oil and gas capital of Europe but the renewable energy capital of the world . that promise vastly more economic opportunity for worker in Scotland . Government Members have well start deal with that . order . I remind member that this be a Third reading and that we should not be reopen argument that be hear in Committee or previous stage . I respect that ruling , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I do not think it be reopen anything , because we have not get any far . I have try at Second Reading , in Committee , and now at Third Reading . why be it so difficult for SNP Members who represent community in the north - east of Scotland to say what be actually in their own draft energy strategy ? it say there be a " presumption " against new " exploration " for oil and gas " in the North sea " . the fact that the hon . member for Angus can not simply stand up and give his own position tell we exactly how people in the north - east of Scotland feel . the SNP have breathtake hypocrisy on this issue . it want to run down the oil and gas sector . it be no friend of the oil and gas sector . of course , the SNP ask the Green party into government — that tell we everything we need to know . be the hon . member as confuse as I be by the answer give by the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) : that somehow or other there be no need for a licence to drill for oil to create and protect oil job , and that we can protect oil job by not extract any oil from the ground ? that be just one example of the mixed and confused messaging from the SNP which , sadly , we hear far too much in this Chamber . we have hear it across the north - east this week and it have dominate much of our proceeding . will the hon . member give way ? I will , because this may be our final chance to hear if the hon . Gentleman believe in the SNP ' s draft energy strategy , which include a presumption against licence for new oil and gas exploration . as much as I be enjoy the hon . member ' s crocodile tear about protect job in Scotland , I wonder if he could give confidence to those oil and gas worker in Scotland by highlight an example from recent history when the Tories have protect anyone ' s job anywhere ? it be only this UK Conservative Government and the scottish Conservatives at Holyrood who be stand up for an industry that support more than 200 , 000 people across the United Kingdom and 95 , 000 people in Scotland . we have hear that 42 , 000 job be at risk under the labour proposal , which be almost identical to those of the SNP . rise — I will briefly give way , and then I will bring my remark to a close . how do the hon . Gentleman propose to get to net zero by 2050 and a temperature rise of no more than 1 . 5c ? our current projection exceed all that . all I hear be that we have to increase oil and gas production in the North sea , but that be the wrong path to net zero . how will we limit temperature rise to 1 . 5c and ensure that we do not carry on the current trajectory of well over 2C ? the Government do not have an answer for that . the hon . Lady have misinterpret everything that I have hear during the debate . no one be say that there will be increase production ; we be look to protect what be happen at the moment , and job . as my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) say in Committee , those job will go elsewhere . let we make no bone about that . they will not stay in Scotland or the United Kingdom . under the proposal of other party , they will go to other country in Europe and around the world . they will drill for oil and gas in those country , they will pay their tax in other place and they will ensure that we buy that in as a nation at a high cost and with a great carbon footprint . that be why I want we to maximise what we can do in the North sea , support ten of thousand of job in the north - east and right across Scotland and the United Kingdom , and work towards that just transition , which Offshore energie UK and everyone else be fully behind . that be why I support this Bill and the effort of my right hon . friend the Minister , who have work constructively across the House . I have have very useful meeting with he , the Secretary of State and other . the Bill also send a clear message that there be one party on the side of worker in the north - east and those in the oil and gas sector across the United Kingdom . that be the conservative party — here in government at UK level , and the scottish Conservatives at Holyrood and across Scotland . More and more people be start to see that the Labour party and the SNP be turn their back on these worker , and only the Scottish Conservatives and this UK Government be support they . the Bill be completely lack in merit . it seek to solve a problem that do not exist . the North Sea Transition Authority can issue licence , and it have be do so . this be a Potemkin argument ; a specious debate about the issuance or otherwise of licence . when this Bill pass , which it will give the arithmetic in this House , it will change not one jot the ability to issue licence or otherwise . what it seek to do be put on a pedestal and create conflict in what be previously broad consensus about the need for a just transition to combat a climate emergency . in the tone and tenor of the debate today , Government Members in particular have show a desire to weaponise that . we just hear from the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) , who say in his sum up that only the Conservatives be stand up — absolute and utter nonsense , although if I be work in oil and gas , I would not want to rely too heavily on Labour , if its £ 28 billion plan be anything to go by . it could have include measure to offset the rapacious appetite for more and more licence to drill for every drop of oil and gas within the North sea basin and receipt every available ha ' penny of tax into his Majesty ' s Treasury . it could have do those thing , and chuck a little bit over the wall to say , " but we ' re go to put 5 % , 10 % or 15 % of all those revenue directly into the just transition . " that would not have be brilliant , but it would have be something . but no — there be not a thing in this legislation to offset the appetite for further and further investment . government Members have speak at length about the need to ensure that we do not develop a gap between that which we demand and that which we can supply — it have already pass ; the UK can no long sustain its own demand . we have to import oil and gas from elsewhere . but that be a myopic obsession with the supply side . there be not nearly enough be do by the Government after 14 year to mitigate the demand side . supply be a function of demand ; the be supply requirement be such as a result of that which be be demand . if there have be a truly ambitious programme at any stage over the past 14 year to insulate house , get people into electric vehicle and introduce further decarbonisation of our economy and lifestyle , we would not have the demand that we have now . the potential gap between that which can supply domestically and that which have to be import would inevitably be less in a zero - sum game . however , we do not have any of that . I will not go over an issue that I be not go to get an answer to . however , the hon . Gentleman ' s own party have be in government in Scotland for 17 year now , and the Scottish Government have repeatedly miss their own climate change target , largely because they have not do what he be accuse the UK Government of not do . how do he reflect on his own party and Government in Scotland who have not do enough to insulate home , get more people into electric vehicle and put in the charging point that we need across the country ? not for the first time , the hon . Gentleman have stand on a political landmine if he think he be go to hold I to account on the availability of charge point . what he may not know — although , know he , I suspect he probably do — be that someone want to find anywhere on these island with more vehicle charge point than Scotland would need to come to London or the south - east of England . Scotland have many more available charge point for electric vehicle — rubbish ! well , we can sort this out later . Scotland have the third high availability of electric vehicle charger of all geographical area in the United Kingdom . I think the Scottish Government ' s record be exemplary — have , as we do , one hand tie behind our back due to be a member of this non - Union , with the freedom of movement and zero agency that come from be a non - sovereign state . any other normal country could invest into whatever it want , and could do so use the normal lever that an independent country would have . Scotland , of course , can not do that because it must wait for its cheque every year from Westminster . if the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) do not like that , he know what to do . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) for the work he do in finally grind out some progress from his partner and colleague in government on the Acorn project , but that just typify the slowness — the absolute pedestrian nature — of measure to protect consumer and the environment from the large possible demand . if we have go into that with a proper fund and with ambition and pace five , six or seven year ago , we would not be in this situation now . the SNP ' s amendment propose an elegant solution to invest the additional receipt from oil and gas extraction in the North sea basin directly into the renewable transition , protect people from high bill , insulate their home and get they out of their petrol and diesel car and into electric car . as we see in the Prime Minister ' s roll back on heat pump and electric vehicle — a further weaponisation of the climate emergency — that be not on the agenda of this fag end Tory Government . they be try to scrabble around look for vote , but that do not work . they have achieve tremendous damage with that approach and judging by recent by - election result they have gain zero political capital . on the mess that be evident before we — [ interruption . ] — while I get heckle by the hon . member for Moray , I and my SNP colleague urge member to decline the Bill a Third Reading . rise — order . proceeding must finish at 40 minute past 5 . four people be stand . please be considerate to other member , so that everybody can get in . it be hard to know what more can be say about this farcical and unnecessary Bill . it feel as if we be run out of adjective . take part in this debate , listen to the ridiculous heckle from the Government Front Bench , almost legitimise this desperate and dangerous attempt to create yet another culture war out of something as serious as the climate emergency , but I put on record my deep disappointment that the Government be play such dangerous game . ever since the Climate Change Act 2008 be first introduce , there have more or less be a consensus of a kind , with a recognition on both side of the House that the climate crisis be real and that we need to act fast to address it . of course , there be difference on some of the detail , but not on that substantial issue . now , however , it feel as if we have a Government who be put all that at risk and that the legislation be all of a piece with Ministers roll back pledge on home insulation , the boiler replacement scheme , electric vehicle and so on — the ludicrous list we have from the Prime Minister about all sort of thing he be go to scrap that be never government policy in the first place . I will add one further argument to those we have hear over the past few hour : project such as Rosebank will not enhance our security , not just because the oil be mainly export , but because public opposition to such project and their unlawfulness mean that development be subject to lengthy legal battle . that be a very real risk . would it therefore not be well to accelerate the roll - out of clean energy , which be much more popular with the public , and not give , in this case , Rosebank ' s owner Equinor nearly £ 3 billion in tax break ? lawfulness be particularly topical today , with a law case go on right now about whether the Government be meet their climate objective and whether the report they have produce contain enough policy detail to persuade the population that we be on track to meet our climate target . that also demonstrate , frankly , that the boosterism we have hear from the Minister be entirely misplace . Complacency do not address the climate crisis or the fact that while the UK once have a leadership position on climate , it have one no long . when I listen to some of the voice on the Conservative Benches , I sometimes feel as if this place be on another planet from the one that be overheat . it be undeniable that we be live through what many be call the sixth mass extinction . we be live through a risk of earth ' s system collapse . scientist be run out of word to describe the seriousness and to try to wake up policymaker to exactly what be at stake . we have just hear that there be a risk of a total loss of late summer sea ice in the Arctic . that be now bake in and could happen as early as the 2030s . that , in turn , be likely to trigger even more extreme weather event in the northern hemisphere , through the weakening of the jet stream . in the Antarctic , melt of the sea ice have accelerate dramatically , which could lead to cascade collapse of the fresh water ice shelf , with catastrophic result for rise in global sea level . new research in the Amazon have find what scientist call precursor signal of an approach critical transition . Deforestation and climate breakdown could now cut off circulate rainfall in the basin , trigger a rapid flip from rainforest to savannah . this be what we be talk about here . future generation will look back to this time — they may even look back , who know , to this debate — and wonder what on earth we be think by give a green light to more oil and gas licence . when we ask ourselves why that be happen , we might also reflect on the role of the fossil fuel lobbyist . a few week ago , when I hold an Adjournment debate on the subject of the fossil fuel lobbying that go on in this place , I note that Offshore Energies UK and its member , include BP and Shell , have " meet UK Government Ministers more than 210 time in the year follow Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine — that be nearly once every work day . " — [ Official Report , 30 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 833 . ] the combined profit of Shell and BP alone have reach £ 75 billion , and I would suggest that that be not unrelated to the direction of the Government ' s discussion today . let I end by quote from a letter from more than 700 UK scientist who write to the Prime Minister last year urge he to halt the licensing of new oil and gas . they include Chris Rapley , a former head of the Science Museum and a professor at University College London , and Mark Maslin , a world - famous professor of earth system science at UCL , and they all warn against any new development of oil and gas . they write : " if the UK allow any new development of oil and gas field , it will severely undermine … claim of leadership by contribute to further oversupply of fossil fuel , and make it more difficult for the world to limit warming to 1 . 5 ° C . therefore , the UK should commit to prevent any new oil and gas field development , and the Government should state this commitment clearly … there be those who might claim that stop new development of oil and gas field would raise concern about the affordability and security of future energy supply , but there be now overwhelming evidence that the UK be far well serve by a rapid transition to domestic clean energy source , particularly renewable , and decarbonisation of our economy . double down on fossil fuel will not lower energy bill or enhance our energy security … the ipcc report state : ' the choice and action implement in this decade ' " — now , at a time when we be all in decision - make position — " will have impact now and for thousand of year ' . " the moment for political leadership be here and now , and I beg Ministers to rise to the occasion . there be about 18 minute leave . I call Wera Hobhouse . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , who have make a powerful case in explain why the Bill should never have reach the House . this month be on course to break an unprecedented number of heat record , and the danger of fail to reach net zero be stare we in the face . I say this again and again , and the hon . Lady have make a very powerful point . this Government , in the name of " protect job " , be turn their back on their net zero commitment , and I find that , and the way in which this debate be be run , incredibly dishonest . if the debate be honest , it would reflect the fact that the Government have show their true face , and be delay the climate action that be so necessary . I have hear repeatedly , throughout the debate , " we be respond to demand . " of course there will be demand for as long as we provide unlimited supply , and of course the oil and gas industry itself will want to drill for every last drop of oil for as long as it can , but it be for a responsible Government to make a responsible decision , and to look the danger that confront we in the face . the tobacco industry say that there be demand for smoking material , and the Government have understand their responsibility to stop that demand because smoking be dangerous , but they fail to see or understand the danger of climate change . we need a Government who will guide the economy into the net zero future , because we need to secure a prosperous future , in the long term , for all people , rather than concentrate on a short - term election issue that may divide member after such a long period of consensus on the need to reach net zero . while the Government claim that new licence will improve energy security , the reality be very different . between now and 2050 , new licence be expect to provide an average of only four day of gas per annum . all that the Bill do be send a symbolic signal . it do not even meet the requirement that the Government have set themselves — secure energy for the future of this country . that be why I think the Bill be so dangerous . as I say on Second Reading , it be introduce for political reason , not because the Government be genuinely intent on any outcome except electoral gain . that be why we should oppose the Bill and make it very clear to our citizen that it do nothing for energy security , nothing to get we to net zero , and nothing to curb energy bill . all member of the House in their right mind should oppose this Bill . I call Sammy Wilson . please be cognisant of the fact that the debate will finish at 5 . 14 pm , and Mr Foord would like to get in , too . may I first say that we fully support the Bill and the objective that have be set ? as have be say time and again during the debate , we will require oil and gas for decade — and it may as well be british oil and gas , because that mean job in Britain , tax revenue , and reduce our import . if we be to continue to use oil , there be very good reason why we should give licence for its production . I find some of the argument make today very strange . passionate speech have be make against this Bill on the basis that — let I paraphrase the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) — it do not do anything that be not already be do . he go far and say that even though that be the case , civil servant must have " hold their nose " when write the Bill . if it do not do anything that be not already be do , why on earth be there such passionate opposition to it ? [ interruption . ] a Member ask from a sedentary position about the climate emergency . apparently , one of the argument against the Bill be that it will provide only another three day ' worth of oil and gas . we be hardly go to push up world temperature if another three day ' worth of oil and gas be drill out of the North sea , but we will ensure year of job for people currently work in the gas industry , guarantee year of finance for much - need public service in this country , and guarantee that we do not have to import from other country . another argument use against the Bill be that it be a confected and contrived piece of legislation , design simply to be part of the culture war and to drive a wedge . indeed , the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) say it be " specious " and deal with a problem that do not exist . the easy way of ensure that the Bill do not become a confected piece of legislation or drive an artificial wedge be for those who think that it be only window dressing to make it quite clear that they would continue to allow licence to be issue . then it would not be confect ; we would know that either there be a real difference or there be no difference . I be not sure where the Labour party stand on this issue , but if , like the hon . member for Angus , it can not give a commitment that there would be licence grant under a Labour - control Administration , the Bill be not confect or specious . it be real , and people have to make a judgment : will the Bill ensure that our economy and worker can benefit from the oil we have ? if so , this legislation be necessary . give the stance that have be adopt by the Labour party , my great worry in all this be that although the Government be try to inject some confidence into the debate , it do not give any long - term confidence , because we will have an election this year and investor will not know whether the argument we have hear today will lead to licence not be grant in the future . my second concern , which have be allude to by the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , be that because we have establish legally bind target for net zero in legislation , the benefit that might come from this Bill will not be realise because they will get stick in the court . I have say this to the Minster before , and I say it again : legally bind target leave the Government open to legal challenge on every piece of sensible legislation that they try to bring through this House , whether it be to alleviate the burden place on people by their heating bill by change the policy on heat pump , or to reduce the impact on travel cost by not have mandatory target for electric vehicle ; I could go through a whole list of policy . this be something that we will have to revisit . we give the Bill our support tonight . we think it be sensible , and that it give confidence . it also show that the Government recognise the reality : people will use oil and gas for many decade into the future , and we have to ensure that we benefit from the fact that demand be there . Most people in this country accept that we need energy security , that we must move away from fossil fuel to more sustainable energy source , and that we must seek to reduce our carbon emission to meet the challenge pose by climate change . they see the effect of climate change every day . recently in my corner of Devon , the community of Feniton and Cullompton show I what it be like to experience flash flooding . it have cause terrible damage to constituent ' property and destroy some of their most treasured possession . flooding will only get bad and more frequent as the UK continue to suffer the effect of climate change . we in the UK have show leadership in this area . we should be set an example to the rest of the world on the need to reduce our greenhouse gas emission , but also crucially on the economic benefit that the UK can enjoy as a result . the Government claim that by mandate the North Sea Transition Authority to run regular bid for new oil extraction licence , they will protect the UK ' s energy security , but that simply do not add up , because 80 % of the oil be export , so there will be no material difference to people ' s energy bill , and we will still be reliant on import liquefy natural gas . we see that in the second invasion of Ukraine in 2022 ; it cause huge spike in oil and gas price and leave consumer face spiral energy bill . they would not have be nearly so badly affect by that if we have continue to invest in onshore wind in the way we be do in 2015 , or if we have continue to insulate building in the way we be in the coalition year . it be not UK - produce oil that would have mitigate those price rise , but UK - base renewable energy and demand avoidance , encourage by a more progressive Government than this one . for example , Octopus Energy note that £ 5 billion could have be save by consumer if onshore wind have continue to be develop at 2015 rate , but the Conservatives be leave to govern alone , and that prospect vanish . the UK Energy Research Centre say of this Bill : " a fixation on new licensing … be a distraction . it offer comfort in the possibility of conserve oil and gas production … rather than grasp the challenge of a rapid transition . " to put it bluntly , this be the approach of a Government who be too scared to embrace the future and make the fundamental change that we need to build a well future for our child . many on the conservative Benches have highlight the challenge of phase out oil and gas as we transition to renewable energy , but there be not only challenge . there be also opportunity to support new home - grow , clean energy that will power our home and create a swathe of well pay job . we can not cling to the past because we be too scared of the future . there be an analogy here from over a century ago , when Great Britain first embrace oil . Winston Churchill be First Lord of the Admiralty in a Liberal Government . he take office in 1911 , a key point in the anglo - german naval race . there be a big decision on his desk when he take on the role . how should Great Britain power its ship ? until that point , coal have be the Royal Navy ' s dominant source of fuel . it be produce at home in Britain , and the saying " carry coal to Newcastle " remind we that there be an abundance of coal in Britain , but that do not make Churchill determine to exploit the abundant reserve of that fuel , which be power the world ' s large navy of the day . Churchill sign an order for the Royal Navy to be power by the innovative energy source of the 20th century , which happen to be oil . oil be more efficient and allow ship to travel fast , far , with less fuel . it also allow for the innovative design of new ship . by this Government ' s logic , Churchill should have put that cutting - edge energy source on the back burner and stick to coal . the argument make in favour of coal then be similar to those be deploy in favour of the Bill today . Churchill believe in look to the future and seize the opportunity that arise , so he take the fateful decision that all new ship in the surface fleet would switch to the more innovative , more energy - efficient fuel source . as a result , the Royal Navy continue to dominate the sea and hamper Germany ' s international trade and , later , its war effort . today , China be work on zero - emission shipping . the California - China Climate Institute at Berkeley be look at 21st - century innovation that will power the lead economy of this century . if China tune into BBC Parliament and see we in our 19th - century surrounding , it would think it quaint that we be debate which 20th - century energy source we should cling to . churchill ' s decision in 1911 put Britain at the forefront of innovation and design , allow Britain and british talent to reshape the character of the 20th century . do Conservative Members disagree with Mr Churchill ? be they daunt by the prospect of seize the opportunity present by new source of energy , include renewable energy , to power the UK in the 21st century ? why be they seek to take these short - term , short - sighted decision that fly in the face of our climate commitment ? this Conservative Government already offer subsidy to the oil industry , and they be already indifferent to the price of renewable energy be tie to the price of gas . it be time for a rethink . it be time to focus on improve the national grid , boost home - grow green energy and invest in the technology of tomorrow . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Damien Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline Nokes Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon David Simmonds Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Gagan Mohindra Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 286 , Noes 221 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 3 to 5 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Social Security that the draft Mesothelioma Lump Sum Payments ( Conditions and Amounts ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 January , be approve . that the draft Pneumoconiosis etc . ( worker ' Compensation ) ( Specified Diseases and Prescribed Occupations ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 December 2023 , be approve . that the draft Pneumoconiosis etc . ( worker ' Compensation ) ( payment of Claims ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 January , be approve — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Justice Ordered , that Rob Butler be discharge from the Justice Committee . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin on behalf of the Committee of Selection . walk and Cycling : Government Support Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) tonight , I will speak about the benefit of walk and cycling . let I quote Proverbs 22 : 6 : " train up a child in the way he should go ; even when he be old he will not depart from it . " although perhaps slightly sexist , that be inscribe on the wall of Captain Shaw ' s Church of England Primary School in the home village of Bootle where I live in the Lake district . it be where my four daughter all go to school , where I be a school governor , where I welcome my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) in 2017 when she be Prime Minister , and where I , for one year only , teach bikeability course . as a very small school , we struggle to find an instructor back in the day . determine that our child should not miss out on the essential life skill provide by bikeability , I volunteer . there be many terrifying thing that we all do in life . some might say that speak from these Benches or from the Dispatch Box fit into that category , but let I tell you , Mr Deputy Speaker , that when your school have just 14 child and you have responsibility for the entirety of year 5 and 6 , take they out on the a595 really be quite terrifying . of course the child be brilliant . they learn all about the brake , hone their skill and master the basic of road safety awareness , and , verify by an independent inspector , every child pass the test at the end of the session . that provide I with a heighten appreciation of the 2 , 231 bikeability instructor in this country . conversely , a more joyous occasion that I can just about recall be find my own freedom . a late developer , I be about six year old when I start to ride my Raleigh Comanche , affix with stabiliser , which I now know be more of an impediment . balance bike be so much well for little one to learn to ride , as I observe on a ministerial visit to the Netherlands with Active Travel England , where I see so many child as young as 18 month — as young as the Minister ' s little boy , Kitto — learn to ride their balance bike in a huge municipal hall . the slightly old child would practise on a street scene , get to grip with the highway code . the more advanced child would put I to shame with their BMX skill , complete with their mastery of narrow bridge , speedy corner , agility and fast reaction . all the while , they gain confidence and skill that last a lifetime and support healthy lifestyle . back to I , though . aged six , I would enthusiastically and patiently wait for Jonti , the boy next door , to return from college or possibly work — he be about 17 year old . I would spot he come home , pop round , knock on the door and ask , " Mrs Parr , be Jonti available to come and help I learn to ride my bike ? " that poor man ; I be so sorry — but I be delighted to feel the freedom of ride my own bike . I be sure that many other in this House have feel that freedom , too . however , only one in four child have a bike nowadays . later in my speech , I will address that , and encourage the Minister to support I . teach my girl to ride their bike be a huge privilege . it be an equally amazing feeling to see they on their way on two wheel . the fact that one in four child be lucky enough to have a bike of course mean that three in four do not have access to one . that have not prevent Bikeability from support school by adopt the loan of fleet bike — indeed , all eligible local authority that apply be successful in get fleet bike — but if child and their parent do not have bike at home , that be clearly a barrier not just to motivate they to undertake bikeability course , but to their ability to ride bike as a normal , everyday thing to do . thank to the brilliant Rich and Sue Martin at Cyclewise , 83 . 9 % of school in Cumbria receive a level 1 and level 2 course , or at least a level 2 course — well exceed the Active Travel England target of 80 % . however , not all local authority be do so well . I would welcome it if the Minister take a lead on that , perhaps by write to the poorly perform local authority to encourage they to embrace the benefit of more active travel . I thank my hon . friend for introduce this Adjournment debate . she be a fabulous Minister who very much promote walking and cycling , and I be sure that the current Minister will do equally as well . like my hon . friend , I love my bicycle — I be pleased that antisocial behaviour order do not exist when I be a kid , because what I do on my BMX would certainly have get I quite a few — and I continue to cycle . do she agree that one challenge be that local authority do not take a consistent approach to encourage cycling , whether through investment in infrastructure , planning and design , or support scheme such as bikeability ? my hon . friend make an incredibly valid point . we need to encourage all local authority to embrace the bikeability training that be available to they , as she will know from the incredible work that she do to encourage we all . she provide huge motivation for my join the early - morning running club , and for so many people in this House to get a bit fitter , and I be really grateful for that . talk of brilliant people , it be brilliant that we have appoint Chris Boardman MBE as the national commissioner for walk and cycling — a tremendous force for good , not just for sport but , even more importantly , for active travel as an everyday way of life . I hope he will not mind I quote he . he have say that Gear Change could be one of the great health intervention that a Government have ever make . as the Minister in the Department for Transport responsible for the future of transport , include walk and cycling , I be especially proud to create Active Travel England and appoint Danny Williams as its chief executive . that organisation have go from strength to strength under the current Minister ' s steering : headquarter in York , it be realise wheely great project right across the country ! one of my most memorable visit as a Minister be to Eaglesfield Paddle Church of England primary school in my constituency . I observe the child , who be in year 5 and 6 , undertake their bikeability training with Cyclewise . after that training , those child be so enthusiastic — they have really enjoy the session — so I ask they , " who ride their bike to school ? " unfortunately , not a single child put their hand up , so I ask they another question , " who would like to ride their bike to school ? " everybody put their hand up . the problem be a rather nasty junction very close to their school . I encourage the Minister to prioritise scheme that will make route from home to school safe , or perhaps ask local authority to prioritise those scheme , because it be crucial that child be able to form healthy habit at an early age . do my hon . friend agree that local authority often fall into the trap of do the easy bit — paint white line on the road — but not tackle those nasty junction , which be the real disincentive that prevent people , particularly young people , from take up more cycle opportunity ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we need to tackle those junction and make those improvement . it be not always about segregated or designate route ; often it be , but certainly in our rural area where there be less traffic , tackle those quite dangerous junction make parent more likely to encourage their child to cycle to school and form those really important healthy habit at an early age . I be loth to intervene on my hon . friend ' s speech , because it be quite fascinating — she have talk about the path that each of we take into cycling and through life . in my own constituency , we have be very fortunate that the Government have invest £ 18 . 6 million of levelling - up money in the M ô r I ' r Mynydd — coastal to mountain — active travel route . crucially , one of the benefit of that route will be enable pedestrian , cyclist and wheeler to avoid the nasty Black Cat roundabout when get from Glan Conwy to Conwy . that mean that school pupil and student in Glan Conwy will be able to get to Aberconwy school without have to navigate that roundabout , which be exactly what my hon . friend be talk about . my question , though , be about rurality . in rural area , those busy a road be very difficult to get past or get around , so do my hon . friend agree that along with Bikeability and the ambassador , the provision of designate active travel route be a key part of get more people on to their bike ? yes again . there be a lot of agreement in the House tonight , and enable those route to school and tackle those junction be primarily what Active Travel England will be look at . have route that comply with local transport note 1 / 20 be really important , but where that be not possible , we should not let the perfect be the enemy of the good ; we should enable as many child as be physically possible to get on to their bike or walk to school , to form early healthy habit so that they grow into healthy adult . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way . I be particularly pleased that she have focus on young people in her debate , which be very impressive , but of course , some of the infrastructure for active travel be also need by old people . on 18 January this year , sadly , an air ambulance evacuate a constituent of mine ; it be report that there have be a collision with a van on the B3440 . do the hon . Member agree that sound cycling infrastructure be need not only for young people , but for old people ? of course that be need for all age ; I welcome the hon . member ' s intervention . my point be that when resource be stretch and priority need to be make , we should prioritise those early habit , because those child will grow into adult . it be an absolutely cry shame that in this country an average of about 25 limb be amputate every day as a result of diabete . I think it be a national disgrace that we have the third high population live with obesity in Europe . while we be very good in Cumbria at teach bikeability training , we be , sadly , woefully inadequate when it come to child get out and ride their bike , with , unsurprisingly , the health inequality that follow . those statistic be national statistic , but they be even bad in Cumbria . the conversation at the moment be very much about cycling , but I think we need to remember walk as well . in Trimdon , one of my village , we have a road — we be talk about a road , but this be a b road — that go straight through the village at pace . the village be one side and the play area be the other side , and a little stepping stone to get across have be propose many time . if we could get such thing put in place , it would build the habit of walking , which build the habit of enjoyment in move around . be that part of the agenda my hon . friend be try to get to ? yes , my hon . friend be absolutely right . I have be focus on cycling so far , but I will come on to walk . I will entertain the House with my walking adventure , all the way from Saint Bees in my constituency right over to Robin Hood ' s Bay , which be some 195 mile . the infrastructure for walk and cycling be vitally important . we be have a debate about active travel , which be a very important debate to have , but I think an even more pressing issue — and I ask the Minister to have discussion about this with his counterpart in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs — be the grow mountain of ultra - process food we now consume in this country . it be perhaps 60 % to 80 % of our diet , which drive profit away from the local farmer , because this stuff be not really food ; it be feedstuff feed into mechanised process and fiddle with for huge commercial gain , at great cost to our life quality and our life chance . so rather than the local farmer benefit from food produce sustainably , big pharma profit from the pill and potion prescribe to patch the problem . thank God for social prescribing , which I think be a fantastic intervention by the Government . I be also delighted to work with people such as Andrew Denton , Jim Burt and William Bird , who be just a few of the genius I have have the pleasure of work with recently in try to create a more naturally healthy Britain . as part of the Routes 2 root campaign , the ask of the Department for Transport include change the funding model so that 5 % of the road budget be dedicate to support active travel ; create safe walking and cycling route , include well lighting and surfacing , and repair pothole , which be a menace to all road user ; and adopt " 20 ' s Plenty " — not everywhere , but outside school where it really matter . this would have multiple benefit , such as improve air quality around school , which be usually in the centre of community , and make available more of the road space and pavement space that be so important for walk . importantly , it will develop in young child healthy and active habit that will last they a lifetime . about a quarter of child in this country be live with obesity when they start school at about four or five . however , the real tragedy be that 35 % — over a third — of child be leave primary school live with obesity . those figure be alarming , but in Cumbria , again unfortunately , it be even bad . the vast majority of those child will grow into adult who suffer further health issue as a result of their formative year . I might be ask this Transport Minister to overstep his mark , but it would be helpful if he perhaps write to Ofsted , because I think it would be incredibly powerful if , during ofsted visit , the inspector ask school how many of the child be walk or cycle to school . I think that would encourage school to work with parent to develop safe route , with thing such as side - road zebra crossing and other way in which we can improve the route from home to school . that would mean that child get to school and be more able to concentrate , and perhaps that they get in the daily mile in one day from get to and leave school . it would also ensure they have form the early habit of live more healthily that will last they a lifetime . I be listen to my hon . friend ' s contribution with great interest because I spend most of my time scroll through social medium look at Cumbria and trail running or walk and cycling there , and I find it astonish that many people who live there do not access her constituency , which I have the desire to visit every day , as she know . why be there a disconnect between those of we who do not live in Cumbria and who want to go there to participate in these activity and the local community itself ? my hon . friend raise a very good point about rurality , which be also raise by my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) . People in rural area be more dependent on car ; we have less public transport so our road be busy and there be perhaps more road with a 60 mph speed limit . I be delighted with the highway code change . I can really tell the difference ; I be out on my bike at the weekend and could really tell the difference . those motorist who know about the change and know they need to give cyclist more space make I feel so much safe . it be very disconcerting when a motorist pass a cyclist quite closely . that be one issue , as be the distance that people need to travel . but if I be honest , I do not know the answer to the very valid question that my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) ask . I do not know why more people do not feel able to make use of 32 mile of rugged coastline and of the mountain , the fell and the countryside that be so accessible in the Lake district . the most important thing we can do be enable the little child , and even the pregnant mum , and focus the effort . that be why I will be seek a conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) the Minister responsible for baby ; as I have say many time , it be important that we support the formation of lifetime healthy habit at an early age so that they last into adulthood . I want we to crack the issue of the far too cheap and easily available ultra - process food and to stick with the really great " gear change " programme — in case the Minister do not get that the first time . I want we to ensure that Active Travel England be resource and support as it have be into the future , and bikeability have the ability to teach all child those essential skill , and I want we to value the work of Cycling UK , Sustrans , British Cycling and the Conservative Environment Network . there be so many brilliant organisation who be do so much good to roll out well network , well education and more encouragement . there be huge benefit to the economy as well from have a healthy population , reduce air pollution and less congestion . that mean few sick day , more work day and long life expectancy . it mean more start - up , more scale - up and more export by brilliant british business make fantastic state - of - the - art bike like Ribble , which be the make of my own brilliant gravel bike , and the company that be make technical clothing , equipment , cargo bike and trike of all kind . there be so many brilliant british brand . I have the joy today of speak with the founder of frog Bikes . its product be a great example of tackle a problem , rid young child of the need for stabiliser and enable they to harness balance bike instead . it be a great company , which be grow by the year . the commitment in the Environment Act 2021 that everyone should live within 15 minute of a blue or green space , be a fantastic one . I wholeheartedly welcome the formation of national trail within the national landscape portfolio in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . I know full well that the Minister work very collaboratively and I ask he to meet with Ministers from other Departments . on this subject , we can achieve a sum great than its part by work together . clearly there be a key role for the Department for Transport , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Department of Health and Social Care . if the Minister be willing to convene his counterpart , that might be incredibly effective , not least because he be an incredibly effective Minister . I understand that there be already an inter - ministerial group focus on physical activity , which be good , but a focus on how we can achieve a naturally healthy Britain across transport , the environment , home and community , level up , health and the prevention agenda , education and lifelong learning of healthy habit , the sport strategy and support a visitor economy to embrace the great outdoor would be truly transformational . on tourism , in my constituency we host part of the Sustrans sea - to - sea cycle route , which go from Whitehaven to Sunderland . we also have Wainwright ' s coast - to - coast , which be soon to be a national trail , from St Bees to Robin Hood ' s Bay . we conquer the latter last year — all 194 mile — carry everything on our back across the Lake District , the Yorkshire dale and the North York Moors , spend money as we go . later this year , again with my husband Keith — an avid lifelong cyclist — we will be cycle the atlantic coast between Porto and Lisbon along part of Eurovelo 1 . that be just a flavour of the tourism benefit of walk and cycling . our target in government be for half of all short journey in town and city to be walk or cycle by 2030 , and for 55 % of five to 10 - year - old to walk to school by 2025 . in urban area , we be nearly there , but much improvement be need in rural area , where only 17 % of school journey be walk and hardly any be cycle . while a distance of a mile or two may be too long to walk in the modern world , it be perfectly possible to warm up on a bike . may I also give a huge shout - out to the technology advancement of e - cycle as well , because hill be no problem — she say , live in Cumbria , home of the high mountain in England — with an electric bike ? one can carry cargo or the kid . when I be in the Netherlands on a ministerial visit , I stand in awe in the car park in Utrecht , I think , which be one of the city we visit . there be an aisle of bike adorn with carrier of all kind for child — on the front , on the back , on the crossbar , with a tow hook and with a trailer . there be all manner of way of carry one ' s child . I be so impressed , and we could learn so much from the Netherlands . if he have not be already , I recommend that the Minister undertake a visit . Danny Williams come with I when I go , and I recommend the Minister take he once again , because it be an inspirational visit . it be part of why I be speak with such enthusiasm today . let we look at why more child be not cycle or , perhaps , why more parent be not encouraging or allow their child to cycle to school . sadly , in Cumbria we have rate above the national average of child be kill or seriously injure , so parent ' reluctance be justify . while great safety improvement have be make , they have be predominately benefit the car occupant , rather than the more vulnerable pedestrian or cyclist . we also have the fact that most road injury be happen during school commute time . then we have the real barrier of affordability . that be not just the bike and helmet , but have somewhere to conveniently , safely and securely store the bike . have access to the right bike be even more expensive . storage at home , en route , such as at train station , and at destination , such as school , college , work , essential service , shop and recreational place , be require . while bike remain a cheap form of transport than private car , bike in the UK be increasingly state of the art and be often highly prized . they be costly feat of engineering , so security be a key factor . it be brilliant to witness the resurgence of manufacturer make bike , from the frog I mention early , which be make in Wales , to my own great choice of gravel bike , the Ribble , from Lancashire . there be many more , along with equivalent clothing from Restrap in Yorkshire to Endura in Scotland . it be fantastic that we have the Sustrans national network , but Sustrans find that 42 % of household with child have no child ' s bike . Sustrans route 72 be a mostly traffic - free route from Seascale to Whitehaven and on to Workington . the brilliant route 727 , which be more fondly know as the viking way , be a project that I be involve with when I work as a regeneration officer at Copeland Borough Council . thank to the then Cumbria County Council , Sellafield and Sustrans , the village of Seascale and Gosforth be now connect by a superb , segregate , designate route , which be well use by people walk and cycle alike , and by child and adult . sustran report that just 52 % of adult feel that their area be safe for cycling . even bad , only 29 % feel that their area be safe for child to ride their bike . that be why seven out of 10 adult say they will never cycle , with safety cite as the main reason . our gear change strategy , which as I say be one of the great health intervention , really be the way forward . we should stick with the programme . I be pleased that we have strengthen the highway code and thank everybody involve with promote that . I also thank Cycling UK for its great work . as it say to I , in Cumbria , only 12 % of young people meet the World Health Organisation recommend amount of daily exercise , but just 14 % of parent feel confident to teach their child to cycle on the road , so the work of Active Travel England be vital , create route that be local transport note - compliant wherever possible and create an atmosphere and environment that be more conducive to walk and cycling . we have come so far in create Active Travel England , but there be real barrier in affordability and , of course , storage , and local authority need to prioritise those healthy habit . I think that I have pretty much sum up the opportunity if we get this right , the barrier currently face , the progress we be already make , and the benefit of work together . my overriding ask of the Minister be that he join with other Government Departments — the Department of Health , which have the most to gain ; the Department for Education , which can make possible the formation of early habit ; and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , which can think about how we pay farmer for access to their land — in recognise that the sport strategy should embrace the great outdoors , as well as the visitor economy benefit from walk and cycling . I very much look forward to his response . what an honour and a privilege it be to respond to my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) , who be a former Minister for active travel and a good friend of mine . I be delighted to campaign to get she into the House — I think I visit Copeland on 14 separate occasion during a very long wet and wintry by - election — where she have be a transformational influence . her legacy be massive , not least because she be an outstanding Minister for active travel . I thank my hon . friend for visit Northumberland when she come to see the benefit of the Tynedale superhighway . Madam Deputy Speaker , I must be careful not to talk for the next hour and a half about the amazing cycling and walking project that exist in Northumberland and to take my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) to task on why she particularly favour Cumbria over what be clearly a well county in Northumberland . however , the long and the short must surely be that my hon . friend the Member for Copeland have do a massive amount to drive forward active travel , and she should be extraordinarily proud of that . as Madam Deputy Speaker can not say this herself , it be only right to note that RideLondon now go through her constituency , which be an excellent part of the country to cycle in . my hon . friend have do a very good Radio 2 link to what I be go to talk about . as the Minister for active travel , I be delighted to say that I have do RideLondon . on several occasion I have do the Haydon Hundred in my constituency . the most interesting of all be the Dunwich Dynamo , which be undoubtedly the most iconic cycling race of all time . it be an attempt by more than 5 , 000 people to leave a Hackney pub on the short night of the year and cycle , totally unsupported , from Hackney all the way to Dunwich in Suffolk — 120 mile — through the night . the instruction be literally an envelope . without a shadow of a doubt , it be the most fearsome and amazing cycle trip to be part of . RideLondon be a massive boost to the local economy , and extol various local virtue . my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ask I to go to Holland on a cycle trip with Danny Williams , the amazing chief executive , and I endorse her assessment of he . I must confess that about 20 year ago , long before I come to this place , I do the trip from Zandvoort on the coast to Amsterdam on a bike , and I have cycle extensively in Holland . we in this House should be excited because although we might say , " our infrastructure be not quite there . we want to do more cycling and walking , and we want thing to be well . we want active travel to be more impressive and for the opportunity to be well , " we only have to look back at the situation in Holland only 30 or 40 year ago to see the degree to which its infrastructure have transform the nation and how its populus get about . that be totally tangible . we be some year behind it in that change , but we should strive to emulate that objective . my hon . Friend speak glowingly about the coast - to - coast , the quality of which I endorse , have do it . I trump she 190 mile with the 268 mile of the Pennine way , the first part of which I be delighted to do with my good friend the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) , who sadly be also stand down , when we be raise money for brain tumour , have both suffer from they . the transformation of the visitor economy and the tourism boost from cycling and walking be game change . there be no doubt whatsoever about that . we should be fully behind that . that be why I invite my hon . friend the Member for Copeland to Northumberland to get behind the Tynedale superhighway , and why this Government have give £ 9 million for the Hexham to Corbridge cycle route , the work on which be ongoing . the lcwip that she talk so glowingly about be clearly the way ahead . the Minister talk about LCWIPs at the last Adjournment debate of 2023 on transport infrastructure in Cullompton . I remember he say that the LCWIPs for Cullompton would be consult on , which be true — that consultation conclude early this month . can his Department work with Devon County Council to ensure that the walking and cycling infrastructure around Cullompton extend all the way to Tiverton , Willand and Uffculme ? I will await the information put forward by the local authority , but it be unquestionably the case that we be try to take forward the lcwip and to ensure the good usage , enhancement and improvement of local infrastructure . I await what the local authority have propose . on the point my hon . friend the Member for Copeland make about school , surely we can all get behind the 20 mph zone around they . it be unquestionable that where local authority can prioritise LCWIPs around school , they should do so . if the message have not go out , I be happy to make that point . I have be ask to do an awful lot of writing to an awful lot of people , and let I address those point . first and foremost , all cycling and walking have a massive benefit and impact on health . my hon . friend identify that if we want a healthy Britain , more people need to be cycle and walk . the evidence be overwhelming that regular physical activity of any shape or form reduce the risk of type 2 diabete by up to 40 % and cardiovascular disease by up to 35 % . my hon . friend be right that there be sadly far too many obese child in our school and far too many people who be not take advantage of the great outdoors , much to the consternation of my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford . we have to change that . we have to try to change those perception and get this country out of the torpor that it descend into slightly during covid . the Minister be make an excellent point on the value of the great outdoors and be active . I know that this be not his Department ' s responsibility , but do he agree that approximately 80 % of that ill health be relate to diet , and that ultra - process food have a part to play in the state of the nation ' s health ? as a Government Minister , I be not allow to endorse a particular book or approach ; that would be genuinely wrong . a bit like the BBC , we think that all organisation , institution and author have merit and everything like that . however , have be give as a present " Ultra - processed People " , Chris van Tulleken ' s book on the science behind food that be not food , I have to say that I utterly endorse the point my hon . friend be make . we have a genuine problem in this country : we be allow the production of food that be neither support our farmer nor necessarily good for our population . this be not my Department ' s responsibility , so I could not possibly comment on the efficacy of evidence or on change that should be make . however , there be a grow body of evidence that say that Government really have to look at what we be do about ultra - process food and how to put out well message . that be difficult , and pretend it be not be naive . however , I utterly endorse the message that we need to eat more healthily if at all possible , and take out of the game some of those ultra - process food and their impact seem to be a no - brainer to I . more particularly , it can not be a good thing for this country that we be allow our population to eat food that will inevitably give they diabete and allow they to put on weight without , in most case , people realise that that be what be go to happen . that just can not be right , in my humble opinion , and we should do something about it . there be a few thing that I can do about it . my hon . friend the Member for Copeland challenge I on a number of point . the first relate to an inter - ministerial group that I be part of . as anyone who have be a Minister will know , there be some inter - ministerial group that be really important and worthy , and some that be interesting , to say the very least . the national physical activity taskforce , which be run by the Sport Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , be meet on 25 March at 2 pm , by chance . my hon . friend the Member for Copeland might want to send a copy of her speech and an itemise agenda to the Sport Minister and invite he to treat that as the agenda for the meeting at 2 pm on 25 March at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . that be merely a suggestion that she could , in theory , contemplate . as for bring together all the Departments to address national physical activity , I think it be entirely the right thing to do . it be wide than just say , " we want people to do sport . we want they to get physically active . " of course , that be right , and individual member of Parliament can make a real difference on this . there be no doubt about that . they can meet with Sport England — I recently meet both the chief executive and my local representative — and drive forward the sporting infrastructure that we all want to see ; they can get local representative in their constituency . I should put on record my thank to the amazing Rob Aubrook — whom my hon . friend meet when , as the Minister with responsibility for cycling , she come to Northumberland — who have drive forward more cycling infrastructure and other local infrastructure project , just as my hon . friend make sure the infrastructure be improve in her local area when she be just a humble campaigner from Bootle . that surely be what we should all aspire to . there be more we can do , and many colleague put forward proposal . I agree with much of what my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) say . I answer the point from the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) . my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) make a point about his amazing coast - to - mountain route , of which I be exceptionally jealous and which I be keen to try . it obviously come third in the batting order of place to visit , after Cumbria and Northumberland . my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) rightly make the point that small piece of infrastructure , in this case a crossing , enable people to access all the benefit that only one part of the village may otherwise have . I urge he to seek the extra local transport funding in Durham that will flow from the Prime Minister ' s decision on hs2 ; it will release infrastructure funding for certain transport project . I will take that up with he separately . this be a good opportunity to put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford for her service in this House , because sadly she have decide to step down . she be an outstanding sport Minister . we troll each other in a very polite way on the extent of our Saturday morning cycling or racing activity . both of we have suffer cancer and have make a remarkable recovery . she be a good example of never let the past define you , and always look onwards and forwards . we will miss she desperately . she raise a key point , which be : what more can we get local authority to do ? bluntly , a lot more . the first point be surely this . every MP will see a new housing development come into existence . say housing development will always have a section 106 agreement on local infrastructure and support . too often , however , only after its development will there be a thought about cycling infrastructure , accessibility , accessible transport , bus and so on . I be genuinely try to change that , because what we presently have be unacceptable . it be just not good government to allow a situation in which local authority do not grasp that there be so much more they could do . we be try to retrofit old infrastructure . my hon . friend the Member for Copeland talk about York . I be lucky enough to go to Active travel and meet Danny and all the amazing team . everywhere I go with Active travel I always get on a bike , so we cycle around the medieval and roman town of York , with all the difficulty there be there in ensure cycling infrastructure on the very narrow street that Harry Potter be delighted to use . but for modern housing , we surely must get it right . when it come to modern housing , section 106 should provide for all the necessary cycling infrastructure . the good part of 10 , 000 people be move to Barrow for the AUKUS project — my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) be do great work on that — and we be try to ensure that where we do big housing , the infrastructure be part of the development . that be the first and key point of education for local authority . secondly , we have set up an amazing scheme call Bikeability . it be fundamentally a success story , as my hon . friend the Member for Copeland rightly outline , because it encourage more and more child to cycle on an ongoing basis , get training and so on . the honest truth be that some local authority be very good at that — Cumbria be a great example — and some local authority be shocker . I be strongly urge by official not to name and shame they , but I will certainly write to every single local authority and extol those that be do well , and ask why that be not 100 % of they when there be this amazing , free Government scheme to encourage our population to get healthy , get fitter , get outdoors and learn how brilliant it be to be on a bicycle . I give my hon . friend an undertaking that I will definitely do that . my hon . Friend rightly raise the issue of school . it be true that I be not an Education Minister — some would say that that be a very good thing — but I will write to Ofsted , as she invite I to , to establish the extent to which we can drive forward an assessment . I take comfort from the daily mile , a project that originate in Scotland and have percolate southward . it be a massive success story : every single headteacher at the school that do the daily mile will genuinely say to those who visit they that it transform the way that the kid be educate . it transform their attention , their fitness and their engagement , and do they a world of good in a host of social and other way . a natural extension of what school be do would be for there to be an assessment of , or at the very least inquiry into , how school be try to improve rate of walk and cycling , both at school and in the journey to school . we have a Walk to School Week , which be part of a programme organise by the Department for Education , but the blunt truth be that it be not very successful . far too few kid walk to school , and we must try to do more about that . my hon . friend invite I to comment on social prescribing . on her watch , that start with a £ 13 . 9 million budget , which have be invest in 11 local authority pilot over three year . one of they be of course in Cumbria ; the other range from Suffolk to Bath and from Gateshead to Plymouth . the pilot be expect to engage ten of thousand of people in walk , wheeling and cycling , and we will assess their impact in 2025 , at the end of the three - year project . however , I can tell she that if I have anything whatsoever to do with it , we will continue that project , which have my hearty endorsement and support . I come to our approach to rural area , and I speak as the Member represent the large constituency in the country . rory Stewart and I use to have a dispute over whose be large . I tell he that size do not matter , but that Hexham be large . the long and short of it be that rurality in general be very difficult , and try to establish a rural cycling infrastructure be very difficult . off - road be often well : I can extol , without a shadow of a doubt , the Sandstone Way , which run from Hexham to Berwick in Northumberland , and the work that we be do in Kielder Forest . however , it be hard to secure taxpayer funding for more rural route because the Treasury operate on a bang - for - your - buck , Green Book basis and so try to get more ongoing fund for urban beneficiary . let I end by say a bit more about the key issue of funding . ten or 15 year ago , £ 30 million , £ 25 million or less be spend on cycling and walking . I look at the budget of up to £ 300 million over the last four or five year , and the ongoing £ 200 million investment in active travel , and I see that we have come a long way . do we have furth to go ? of course we do , but the direction of travel — and in a debate about cycling and walking , the direction of travel be surely important — be utterly clear . we be invest more than any previous Government . our projection be that over the period up to 2025 , £ 3 billion will be invest across Government in active travel , include investment from the city region sustainable transport settlement and the levelling - up fund . there will also be far fund opportunity through Network North in future year . it be important to note that whatever the original active travel budget may have be , the HS2 money — whether through the city region sustainable transport settlement or the levelling - up fund addition — and any further local transport funding that may or may not result in the next few month can be use to support walk and , in particular , cycling scheme , and we would encourage Mayors , where appropriate , to pursue those opportunity . in September last year , we announce £ 60 million of revenue funding for support active travel to school , include through Walk to School , the Big Bike Revival , Modeshift STARS and , obviously , bikeability . I have have a bikeability meeting with Emily Cherry , the brilliant chief executive of Bikeability Trust , who be very well known to my hon . friend . I endorse the support for that initiative , and we think that more can be do , but 500 , 000 place with £ 21 million of support be not to be sneer at . we have reach 51 % of year 6 child in 60 % of primary school . I would love to do more , and we be try to make it happen . may I congratulate the Department , Bikeability and the wonderful Emily Cherry on recognise the difference that it can make to child with special educational need and disability to learn to ride a bike or trike that be right for they ? huge improvement have be make in create a more accessible bikeability . my hon . friend be right : bikeability be transformational . we need to do it big and well , and more widely , but it also require a change in the great british public . first and foremost , it require mum and dad , headteacher and local authority to say , " we want to get behind this . " I think we can do that , and the direction of travel be good . she be right to praise Emily Cherry , Danny Williams and all the Active travel team . I meet the vast majority of they when I go to York . they be do God ' s work in transform hundred of project up and down the country . I have not mention Mr Boardman — probably because I owe he a beer , which be always a worry — but it be great to have the opportunity to work with one ' s hero . I grow up watch Chris Boardman in various race , include when he famously lead the Tour de France and come off his bike . that be one of the tragedy of my sporting tv career . what be happen with active travel be genuinely transformational , and we continue to support it . I believe that the record of this Government be good , but we can do more . it have be an honour and a privilege to respond to my hon . friend and her very important debate tonight . question put and agree to . House adjourn .