I thank my hon . friend and Berkshire colleague for that intervention , and he be so right in what he say . we must remember they . as we mark this solemn anniversary , we must shine a light on those whose sacrifice have too often be overlook . their name may not appear in our history book , but their courage shape the world we live in . at the time of my VE Day contribution to the House in May , it be my understanding that only two British - base veteran who serve in the pre - partition Indian Army be still with we . it be with deep regret that I inform the House today that both veteran have , sadly , since pass away . I would like to pay tribute to Havildar Major Rajinder Singh Dhatt MBE and Daffadar Muhammad Hussain , who be a local Slough resident . these two formidable Commonwealth ex - servicemen , whom I have the honour and privilege of meeting on several occasion , serve with distinction and dedicate their life to preserve the legacy of those who serve . I be sure the House will join I in send condolence to their family and friend . their story be a powerful reminder of the global nature of this conflict and the endure bond of service . as a proud Sikh , I carry this legacy personally . my great - grandfather lose a leg fighting in the first world war and my grandmother ' s brother and other family member serve in the second world war . as I discuss with my staff member Isabella Elie and Lewis Rantell , their story be echo in family across Britain and the Commonwealth . one such story be that of Patrick McAnulty , one of the thousand of british and ally prisoner of war who endure unimaginable suffering in captivity . subject to force labour , starvation and brutal treatment , many pow do not survive . those who do carry the physical and emotional scar for the rest of their life . their resilience in the face of such cruelty be testament to the human spirit , and their sacrifice must never be forget . as we reflect on the past , we must also celebrate how far we have come . the United Kingdom and Japan , once wartime enemy , be now very close ally . today , we stand together in defence of peace and democracy . as the Defence Committee note in its report on the global combat air programme , that partnership be a cut - edge collaboration between the UK , Japan and Italy to develop the next generation of fighter jet . it be a powerful symbol of reconciliation and share purpose . as veteran share their story during this 80th anniversary , we be remind that remembrance must be more than ceremonial : it must inspire action . the lesson of history be clear , yet conflict persist from Ukraine to Gaza , Sudan , the Congo and more . these be not distant tragedy ; they be urgent reminder of the fragility of peace . in my role as Chair of the Defence Committee , I be regularly remind of the vital role that our current brave servicemen and woman play in keep our country safe , and I would like to recognise their contribution , too . however , recognition must be more than symbolic ; it must be match by action and support . so , in conclusion , let we remember , let we reflect , but above all , let we ensure that the sacrifice of the past be never in vain and that the peace they secure be never take for grant .