Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s business , I would like to pay tribute to Dame Eleanor Laing and Dame Rosie Winterton — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] — who have both indicate that they will not be seek re - election to this House . Dame Eleanor have be a Deputy Speaker for more than a decade and succeed I as Chair of Ways and Means when I be elect Speaker . hon . member may not be aware that as well as her role preside over the Chamber , that office come with a wide range of other responsibility , include convene the Panel of Chairs , responsibility for Westminster Hall , and all the other thing that I delegate that I do not want . [ laughter . ] thank you , Eleanor , for do all that and for the service you have give . Dame Rosie become a Deputy Speaker in 2017 after serve as Opposition Chief Whip through the 2010 Parliament . she have use her deep knowledge of the inner working of this place to great effect in the Chair and have give we tip - off when we need they . I should like to put on the record my personal gratitude and , I be sure , the gratitude of all member to they both for their service to the House during their long and distinguished parliamentary career . I know we will keep in touch , but I can not thank they enough for all the help and support that they have give I . I personally thank you both for what you have do . we have achieve a lot during a difficult time . I will share one thing with the House . the one thing I say I would never , ever get involve in be say what woman should wear in the Chamber — that be beyond I . the dress tsar be Eleanor . the rule be Eleanor ' s and enforce by Eleanor . I will never want to take up that role , so I can only thank she for choose what woman should wear . any complaint , address they to Eleanor ! I thank they both for what they have do . Nigel , you will stay on , so we will say nothing about the other Deputy . I just want to say — it be on the record — thank you both . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] do enjoy your further career — I be sure you will — and let we hope you be not too far away in the future . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . well , I be not sure we should take one , but I have to give in to Dr Th é r è se Coffey . I want to thank you , Mr Speaker , for all that you have do in this Parliament . it have be an extraordinary one , give the situation we go through with covid . the way this Parliament continue to function be truly innovative , recognise the challenge of the time . many people be stand down . I be not one of they , Mr Speaker — I hope to be re - elect to this House — but I be conscious that today be the opportunity for valedictory message . the point of order that I be really try to make be to understand how today ' s final debate will work . I hope that there will be an opportunity for everybody to speak , with priority give to those make valedictory speech , but that there will be a chance , too , for constituency mp who want to raise issue . I would be grateful for your guidance on when the debate be likely to start and finish . I wish I could give an answer to that . unfortunately , I be not in control of the Lords . maybe it would be helpful if this House be . [ laughter . ] as information come through in real time , we will update the House . we have some thing to get through . you be absolutely right that preference will be give to those member who be stand down . I think we will have more time than we would expect . it do not look like an early finish for Members today . who know , but I think we could be run until after 6 pm , so there will be time , but , as I say , I will give preference to those who be step down . let I say to those member who be step down : thank you for be part of this Parliament . thank you for what you have do . we be go to lose some good friend . on both side of the House , experience be leave , and that be sad for all of we , but I wish you well in the next part of your career . Bill present Solent Ferry Regulator Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Bob Seely present a Bill to establish a regulator of ferry service operate in the Solent ; to make provision about the power and duty of that regulator ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 5 July , and to be print ( Bill 231 ) . sanction I beg to move , that the Sanctions ( EU Exit ) ( Miscellaneous Amendments and Revocations ) Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 643 ) , date 14 May , a copy of which be lay before this House on 15 May , be approve . in recent year , the UK have transform its use of sanction . we have deploy sanction in innovative and impactful way , include in our response to Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . we have take a rigorous approach , carefully target to deter and disrupt malign behaviour , and to demonstrate our defence of international norm . this statutory instrument cover several measure that will strengthen our sanction regime across the board and allow we to continue the work already be implement across Government . I will run through each measure in turn . first , in October 2023 the Government add a new type of sanction , the director disqualification sanction , to the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 . this instrument use that power to amend the UK ' s autonomous sanction regime , which will mean that the Government can apply it to individual designate under these regime . it will be an offence for a designate person subject to this new measure to act as a director of a company or to take part in the management , formation or promotion of a company . this will far prevent those sanction from deriving benefit from the UK economy . it be an important addition to the UK sanction toolkit . this instrument provide Ministers with the flexibility to apply the new measure on a case - by - case basis . the Government will ensure that the measure be target and operate alongside the UK ' s full suite of sanction power . this instrument also enable the Government to issue licence to person to allow they to undertake activity that be otherwise prohibit . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have be work closely with the Department for Business and Trade , Companies House and the Insolvency Service on the implementation of this measure . the SI will also clarify the sanction enforcement remit of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . HMRC have well - establish responsibility for enforce trade sanction in its capacity as the UK custom authority . in recent year , however , the scope of trade sanction have evolve beyond import and export prohibition , to include matter that be outside HMRC ' s custom remit such as sanction on stand - alone service . last December , the Government announce the decision to establish the Office of Trade Sanctions Implementation , within the Department for Business and Trade , in order to enforce these new type of measure under the civil law . once it start operate , OTSI will also be able to refer serious offence to HMRC for criminal enforcement consideration . HMRC will continue to have both civil and criminal enforcement responsibility for sanction within its custom remit . this legislation be need to clarify the sanction measure for which HMRC be solely responsible for enforce and those which it will investigate on referral from OTSI or another civil enforcement organisation . the sanctioning of the shadow fleet be an issue of great importance to the Foreign Affairs Committee , so I thank the Government for introduce this really important legislation . may I also thank you , Mr Speaker , for your support of the Foreign Affairs Committee during this Parliament , and put on the record my thank to an incredible Committee that it have be an incredible honour to chair ? I thank in particular my Clerk , Chris Shaw , who be truly incredible , as well as the rest of the Committee , who have be wonderful . on behalf of the Committee , I also thank the Government for all they have do on Ukraine , show the leadership that mean that Ukraine be still stand and fighting . will my right hon . friend the Minister confirm that this be not just about tackle money and profit go into the russian coffer , but about violation of maritime law , and that be why today ' s sanction be so very important and why the Government be show yet again that we will always stand by Ukraine ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention and , indeed , for her very kind word towards those who do a huge amount of work behind the scene to enable we to bring forward a rolling level of sanction legislation , which have continue to degrade Putin ' s ability to fund his war . we believe that sanction across the piece have take some £ 400 billion out of his capability . it be a continuum , and today ' s legislation continue that . she be absolutely right . the sanction will continue to be tool that help we in many way to keep ahead of those who wish we harm and who wish to support Putin in his illegal war in Ukraine , and to continue to hunt they down and to restrict their capacity . the Minister and I have work on various thing over the year . those of we in all party who be passionate about sanction be still extremely worried about certain significant people in this country . a recent article in the Times suggest that a hereditary peer in the House of Lords be a main channel of russian money help certain political faction not only in this country but in the United States . be it not about time that we do something about the upper House , which seem to have a small group of pro - Putin member ? the hon . Gentleman have , as he say , be an incredible champion and supporter of all the work we have be do cross - party to keep ahead of the sanction . I know it be frustrating , but as I always say , people should pass evidence of any sort about individual they consider be supportive of or enable Putin , his regime or any military activity to the team in the fcdo , which look day in , day out at be able to bring forward a package of evidence that would withstand judicial review . we stand ready . I will never comment on what we be take in and what might come next , but the team be work flat out to look at the evidence wherever they can . that be a continuum . I say that not only to member of this House but more widely to those out on the frontline or work with business ; where they see area in which they believe that be happen , they should bring the information to we . will the Minister accept some evidence I have about the Earl of Oxford and Asquith that I think should be urgently consider by all of we careful and worried about sanction ? if the hon . Gentleman would like to write to I later today , I will make sure that the team look at the information as soon as possible . order . I know it be the final day for the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , but we still have rule in this House about be critical of member of another House . could he still use that caution , even on his last day in the House ? thank you , Mr Speaker . this legislation be need to clarify the sanction measure for which HMRC be solely responsible for enforce on those it would investigate on referral from OTSI . it will therefore establish a consistent approach to the enforcement of trade sanction . it will facilitate HMRC and OTSI work in close partnership so that they can robustly enforce all trade sanction against Russia and other target country use civil and criminal power . on the financial sanction side , the statutory instrument also include new obligation for person designate under the Belarus regime to report any asset they own , hold or control in the UK or worldwide as a UK person to the relevant authority . the measure be another step in improve the transparency of asset own , hold or control in the UK by designate person and will strengthen the ability of HM Treasury ' s Office of Financial Sanctions implementation — OFSI — to implement and enforce UK financial sanction . importantly , the measure will act as a dual verification by enable the comparison of disclosure by designate person against exist reporting requirement that bite on firm such as financial institution . under the new requirement , the Government will be able to penalise those who make deliberate attempt to conceal asset to escape the effect of sanction . an equivalent reporting obligation be place on designate person under the Russia regime in December 2023 . the extension of this requirement to Belarus ensure alignment between the Russia and Belarus regime , which be particularly vital give the frequent overlap of the Belarus and Russia sanction regime and the co - operation between the two state in relation to Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . we have also include several sanction on Belarus on the export of so - call battlefield good , which include good such as electronic equipment , integrated circuit and firearm and aerospace technology . these new measure prohibit the import of belarusian aluminium into the UK — both the metal itself and aluminium product . aluminium product be a sector of strategic importance to Belarus and have be its top export to the UK . although the UK nexus with the belarusian economy be limited , the signal impact of our sanction on Belarus be , and will remain , important . we keep these sanction under constant review and reserve the right to introduce further measure so that the Lukashenko regime continue to feel the consequence of its lack of respect for human right and its support for Putin ' s war . finally , we be also revoke the Burundi sanction regime . that will remove an empty regime from the statute book . the decision in 2019 not to transpose into UK law designation under the original 2015 EU sanction regime reflect the improved political situation in Burundi . we do not have the same level of concern about the widespread political violence in Burundi that lead to the original decision to impose the regime , so we have make no designation under it . as we set out in the recent UK sanction strategy , the Government keep their regime under review and respond to change circumstance . we be commit to lift a regime out of a specific measure or revoke a designation when the original objective be no long serve by its continuance . to conclude , sanction continue to play an important part in the UK , which continue to build on its already impressive sanction capability . in the year since the landmark Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 , our approach to sanction have evolve considerably to respond to the change in the world . we will continue to work on sanction to meet any new challenge . I commend the regulation to the House . may I echo your comment , Mr Speaker , about the Deputy Speakers who be , sadly , step down at the snap general election ? I also thank the Minister for set out the purpose of the regulation , for her general cross - party working , and for her assurance that the Security Minister and the Treasury be look at such sanction , because they need a cross - Government approach . I also echo her comment about the excellent work of official at the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation . labour support the necessary and common - sense step be take in the statutory instrument . we will not seek to divide the House on it , although it might have be nice to have consider it last week , rather than this morning , from the point of view of one ' s nerve . as a party , we have consistently support the Government in expand the UK sanction regime as it relate to a variety of country , but particularly Russia since the unlawful and barbaric invasion of Ukraine . we have also be candid and honest where we think that minister be not go far enough or have act too slowly in hold global actor to account , or where there be considerable loophole in our regime that they continue to exploit . when it come to the integrity of our sanction regime , we have make it clear that Labour will work assiduously with partner and ally to counter the plethora of threat pose by actor across the world , will ensure proper enforcement , and will bring about the seizure of russian state asset for the purpose of support ukrainian reconstruction . before turn to the measure , I will raise a more general issue that my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , the shadow Minister for Europe , have bring to our attention on several occasion . on the enforcement of monetary penalty for breach of the UK sanction regime , the OFSI website show that only one penalty have be issue against the russian regime since the start of the war in Ukraine . can the Minister elucidate whether that be the case ? be the website out of date , or be there another reason why our enforcement be woefully low — in comparison with the USA , for example ? I hope that she can supply clarity on that . labour support the measure . they will prevent a designated person be a director of a company or oversee the promotion , formation or management of company , which be a necessary step in dismantle the ecosystem of illicit finance in which designate person skirt sanction and retain access to their wealth . I ask the Minister for clarity on one point . concern have be raise by hon . member on both side of the House about the issuing of licence that grant designate person dispensation to become exempt from give provision . can she clarify whether there will be ministerial oversight of the granting of those licence ? will the Treasury , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Department for Business and Trade work in lockstep to ensure cohesion and co - ordination when it come to their granting ? last year , revelation come to light regard a licence issue to none other than Yevgeny Prigozhin that allow he to sue a UK journalist . that be what can happen when licence be issue without proper scrutiny . I hope that the Minister can provide clarity on their granting . we also support the measure relate to the mandate of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs on Belarus , as well as the new reporting obligation on person designate under the asset freeze to disclose the value and nature of any fund or economic resource that they own , hold or control in the UK . we also support the prohibition of export from the UK of item critical to russian weapon system and military development , in addition to certain aerospace good ; the prohibition of belarusian aluminium import ; and the ban on the provision of ancillary service . why have it take so long to bring in those prohibition measure ? it seem unconscionable that well over two year since the onset of the war in Ukraine — do not forget that the House ' s belarusian concern be raise before then — UK item that could be use in russian weaponry be make their way via Belarus to the frontline , potentially aid and abet Russia ' s war effort against the people of Ukraine . we understand that any sanction regime be a work in progress , but we can not continue to countenance UK export filter through to Putin and the crony who facilitate his war machine , especially give the situation in and around Kharkiv at present . I thank the Minister for set out the measure , though , as I say , they could have come early . I hope that she can provide clarity on the concern that I raise . labour will continue to support further expansion of our sanction regime , but it be become ever clear that the action that we take today will have lasting ramification . in devise such action in the next Parliament , we will strive to be even bold , swifter and more ambitious . we come to a maiden speech . I call Chris Webb . thank you , Mr Speaker . when it be announce that I be the winner of the Blackpool South by - election at 5 . 15 be on 3 May , I call on the Prime Minister to hold a general election and give the rest of the country the same chance that my constituent have to vote for change and elect a new Labour Government . I thank the Prime Minister for take I up on that , although I have not expect to be back out on the campaign trail quite so soon . I ask the whole House to join I in show solidarity with my amazing — and now long - suffer — wife Portia , who have be at my side throughout with our amazing three - month - old son Cillian , who have bring so much joy and laughter to our life . Mr Speaker , I be grateful for this opportunity to stand before you , at short notice . it be the last opportunity to do so before a general election ; have I not take it , I risk a lifetime of be an answer to an obscure pub quiz question . I relish get back on the doorstep and speak with fellow resident . I thank my predecessor Scott Benton and his staff for all their work and support of local resident . I also thank Gordon Marsden for his personal support and tireless work in Blackpool South during his 22 year of service . Gordon be still fondly remember and recognise for his huge contribution to my constituency and his pursuit of everyone have access to lifelong learning . I would not be here today without two teacher who inspire and support I as a young student with undiagnosed dyslexia . they help I get to Hull University and on the road to this Chamber . Stephen Conway and Ken Winstanley , I thank you . I would also like to pay special tribute to Anne Hoyer , a Labour giant on the Fylde coast who we sadly lose last week . the first Blackpool constituency be create in 1885 , a decade after the opening of the railway begin to bring an influx of visitor to our town . in 1945 , a separate Blackpool South constituency be create ; it become clear that it have an identity of its own . it be home to the famous pleasure beach , Blackpool tower and three pier . it have beach with golden sand and , local would argue , the good ice cream to be find anywhere at Notarianni ' s , which have serve tourist and local since 1928 . I be a child of tourism , my mum have move to Blackpool to become a redcoat in the 80 , but I be also a child of public service . my dad be a Blackpool postie who want to help and support fellow worker in Royal Mail , and then those in BT and other throughout the Communication Workers Union . thank to the last Labour Government , my mum be able to retrain for free and become an early year teach assistant at my primary school — her dream job . before they , there be my paternal nan , Val Harman , a scout leader who dedicate her life to inspire young people ; my paternal grandfather , Brian Harman , who be a local independent councillor and who , at 83 year old , be still heavily involved in his local community centre in Burntwood ; and my paternal grandfather , Dougie Webb , who serve in world war two , fight fascism in Europe and Africa , and who once guard Winston Churchill at Chequers — all of they public servant . while I be trace my paternal grandmother ' s history , I be amazed to find out how deep my family ' s public service root go . I discover that my 14th great - grandfather , Edmund Moody , save the life of Henry VIII . the King , out hunt with his hawk , try to reach over a ditch with a pole , which break . edmund , a footman of the King ' s , leapt into the water and save he from drown . sadly , the £ 6 a year pension and the land that he receive as a reward do not stretch far enough to help his descendant , my nan Margaret Webb , who have a tough life grow up in Liverpool . I be raise not on story of brave footman who save king , but on the story of my nan and her sister , who wear newspaper for shoe and battle TB during wartime without an NHS . through grit , determination and the welfare reform of a progressive Labour Government , my nan and granddad be able to move into one of the first council house build in Blackpool in the ' 50 , in Grange Park . she go on to run a small business in Blackpool ' s famous Abingdon Street market . have grow up without proper healthcare , she know the value of our NHS and how vital it be that we protect it . I will make it my mission in this place to do so in her memory . since the pandemic , Blackpool have see record number of visitor rightly return to our beloved seaside town , which have so much to offer , but while tourism recovery be central to our town ' s future , it be time to focus on the recovery of our community beyond the prom . after year of austerity , and now during the cost of living crisis , all too often , the town that I be proud to call home be recognise as be at the sharp end of statistic for poverty , crime , mental ill health , low life expectancy and more . I will work tirelessly for those community — hopefully in the next Parliament , too — and I hope to prove that politic have the power to change people ' s life . my heartfelt thank go out to the people of Blackpool South , who put their trust in I on 2 May and elect I as their Blackpool bear and breed Member of Parliament . my hometown ' s motto be " Progress " . the town that pioneer municipal street lighting , electric tramway and modern tourism for the working class have continue to forge ahead , even with deep spending cut . Blackpool South now have a Labour MP . under what I hope be an imminent Labour Government , I will fight to make sure that progress be possible for everyone in Blackpool , inspire the next generation . with economic stability , family in Blackpool South , where a third of child live in poverty , will not have to choose between heating and eat . cut to NHS waiting time will mean that those in Blackpool South , where people be twice as likely to die from heart disease by the age of 75 as people in wealthy area , will be able to see a doctor when they need to . hundred more police on the street will mean that in Blackpool , where weapon and knife offence have increase by more than 400 % since 2015 , safety will be restore to our community . but those painful statistic tell only half the story . anyone from Blackpool will tell you to look behind the headline , and beyond the bright light of the illumination , to find the real story of our town . it be alive with grassroots creativity and culture , have a thriving LGBTQ + community , and a wealth of fascinating life that could only have be live in Blackpool . it be a story of community resilience , and of people who , with very little themselves , be always willing to give to someone else who have less . we have a wealth of community organisation and charity work hard to improve life in Blackpool South . for their dedication to the town , I would like to thank Counselling in the Community and its inspirational founder Stuart Hutton - Brown ; Blackpool Food Bank ; Fylde Coast Women ' s aid ; Reclaim Blackpool ; Skool of Street ; Blackpool Street Angels ; Boathouse Youth ; the friend of Stanley Park ; the St Peter ' s Church soup kitchen ; and many other too numerous to mention . in closing , I would not be stand here today without the support of our good friend and my mentor , Tony Lloyd . Tony be an incredible northern Labour parliamentarian who we sadly lose at the start of this year . " for I , politic be all about people , " Tony once tell I . " it ' s that sense of human solidarity that matter . if it ' s not about make people ' s live well , don ' t be a politician . " I be sad that he be not here to see I take my seat , but I will honour Tony ' s memory by serve my constituent in the same way that he serve his , with people at the heart of my politic . I rise to speak briefly on sanction , but before I do so , I congratulate the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) on an excellent maiden speech . it be my privilege to give my final speech on the back of such a brilliant first speech . although I be sure that those in conservative central office will have other idea , I hope it be the first of many speech he give in this House . this place matter in term of the way the UK compete with our adversary and those who challenge we all around the world . it be not just what the Government do through the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , our embassy and other Departments . it be important that Parliament show its resolve . as any colleague in the House who have have the pleasure of travel to do the Government ' s business overseas will know , we be routinely beat up by Ministers in foreign country for thing that be say on these Benches . therefore , the resolve of the House to give resolute support to the Government of the day on our foreign policy be enormously important . we do that through not just the employment of our military , with whom it have be my great pleasure to work during the past four year , but the way we pull all the lever of government to achieve effect , through both hard and soft power , all around the world . therefore , at the back end of this Parliament , these be important measure before we today and it be right that they be be put through with cross - party consensus . my personal circumstance mean that I can not be here later today , Mr Speaker , so I hope you will indulge I if I say one or two quick thank yous as I draw my parliamentary account to a close . as I segue from the strategic and the international , I wish , first , to thank all of those ministerial colleague with whom I have have the pleasure of serve over the past four year , as we have go through an incredible period of challenge to our nation . I have serve alongside many who have make I a well person , through all their expertise and all that they have be able to teach I , but none more so than my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) . I have work alongside he in some of the dark moment our nation have face in generation , during the pandemic , the Kabul airlift and Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , and that will stick with I as one of the proud time of my life . it be a great honour to serve alongside you , Secretary of State . I also wish to thank my partner , family and friend , particularly my child , Charlie and Tilly , for all their love and support over the past nine year . I thank my staff , both in my constituency office and here in Westminster . I thank those in the Wells Conservative Association for their support and kindness . I thank my constituent for send I here ; whether or not they vote for I , represent they have be a huge privilege . as you know well , Mr Speaker , our public discourse be change for the bad and there be a toxicity to it now that mean it require real bravery to come to sit on these Benches . you have be a great protector of this House and of those who have the courage to sit on these green Benches , to speak up for their opinion and their constituency , and to try to make a positive difference for those they represent and our country at large . thank you for your leadership and guidance during this very difficult Parliament . thank you for all your support — and for the occasional bollocking when I have go for too long at the Dispatch Box . I thank all colleague , on both side of the House . when we have disagree , it have always be with courtesy and respect . not enough people beyond this place see that that be the way the affair of this House be mostly conduct . Most of all , I wish all good fortune and success to all those who will arrive here in July — in particular , my successor in the new seat of Wells and Mendip Hills — have be return to represent their community and to make a difference on behalf of this country , in what will be incredibly challenging time . it have be a great pleasure and a real honour to serve here . it be a sad day . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) on his maiden speech . normally after a maiden speech , we stand up and say " I be sure the new Member will be a doughty campaigner for his constituent , " and I be sure he will for a week ! I wish he all the good and hope he be return to this place . I also send good wish to his son and his wife Portia . be the spouse of a politician be probably the bad job in the world . it be incredibly difficult and I can not imagine the rollercoaster she have be on in the past few week , so I send my solidarity to she particularly as she be deal with the joy and otherwise of have a very young child to look after . I congratulate the hon . Gentleman . if you do not mind , Mr Speaker , I would like to offer some brief thank yous ; I will probably be speak on the tribunal measure later , but now would be a more appropriate time for this , give the mood of the House . I thank a few of my colleague who will no long be in this place after the election . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , who during my time as deputy leader be the Chief Whip of the SNP . he be my confidante and my rock . we have many late - night session plan parliamentary mischief , not least in advance of the SNP walk - out that I think a number of people will remember very well . I appreciate everything he do for I during that time . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) , who be probably not someone who will be remember for set the heather on fire in this place , but he have do absolutely everything that have need to be do and everything ask of he , he have deal with some incredibly technical legislation and he have always be there with word of advice whenever they be need . I also thank my right hon . friend the Member for Dundee East ( Stewart Hosie ) , who have be in this place for a long time ; he will be step back from frontline politic but I be sure not from the SNP . he have similarly be a huge source of advice and , although we have have some very good - natured disagreement , I have huge respect for everything he have do , particularly for the SNP as a whole , and I have no doubt he will carry on do that . on a very personal note , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Mhairi Black ) , who have be one of my close friend in this place and whose departure I have not quite reconcile myself with and I be not sure I will ever get over . I will miss she incredibly ; I intend to come back to this place and she do not . I will miss she a huge amount . on this specific debate and the sanction regime , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) be not here today but have do a huge amount of work , as I be sure member across the House will recognise , particularly on issue such as beneficial ownership and scottish limited partnership . we have concern in relation to sanction and this legislation represent a good step in close some of the loophole that friend and colleague have be raise . in 2022 , about 1 , 300 scottish limited partnership be start , only four of which be start by scot . we have be campaigner on scottish limited partnership and have massive concern still about the SLP regime and the fact it be use for money laundering in significant number . despite their be call scottish limited partnership , they be technically nothing to do with Scotland , which be why we need Westminster to take action . it would be great if whoever be in the next government could crack down on the abuse in slp . we be pleased with some of the action take on beneficial ownership but we do not think we be there yet . we need to ensure that # the sanction regime and everything associate with they be apply appropriately . if we do not know who actually own something , it be very difficult to say that they can not own it . progress be be make on the Companies House issue that we have mention before , but again , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central would make it clear that thing have not go far or fast enough in the reform of Companies House . again , that be about transparency . when the Minister be speak , she very much stress transparency in the sanction regime , and I be pleased with any move that improve transparency . clearly , we will not be oppose the SI today — I think it be a good thing — but there be still more to be do to ensure that sanction regime work appropriately , so that those people who should not be able to have directorship or ownership , or to money launder or make money through the UK , because we have designate they as responsible for or aid war crime or human right abuse , can not do so . there be more to do to increase that transparency so that those people can be crack down on . lastly on sanction , we be still concerned that the UK Government have be too slow to increase the number of individual who have be sanction . other jurisdiction have significantly high number of individual who have be sanction , particularly from area such as Russia . I appreciate the number of statement that the UK Government have make and the number of action they have take , particularly around Ukraine and the hard work that have be do to support its people , which I know be appreciate by people in the ukrainian Government . however , I still think more could be do to ensure that this place be say to Russia , " your action be inappropriate , and we be go to hit you where it hurt financially by increase the number of individual who be sanction — who be subject to those financial penalty and the inability to move money or have company in these island . " I thank the Minister for bring this SI forward today , and make clear that the SNP be absolutely supportive of it . follow the election , we look forward to significantly more work be do to tighten those loophole and increase the number of individual who be subject to sanction . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Sanctions ( EU Exit ) ( Miscellaneous Amendments and Revocations ) Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 643 ) , date 14 May , a copy of which be lay before this House on 15 May , be approve . coroner I beg to move , that the draft Coroners ( suspension of Requirement for Jury at Inquest : Coronavirus ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 2 May , be approve . before I address the purpose of the statutory instrument , I would also like to congratulate the new hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) on his maiden speech . his effort to avoid be the subject of a pub quiz , honourable though they be , may be slightly forlorn : I can not recall too many occasion on which an hon . Member make their maiden speech on the same day that Parliament rise for the next election , so I suspect that he may still be the subject of pub quiz into the future . this instrument be an important part of the Government ' s ongoing support for coroner service in their continue recovery from the covid - 19 pandemic . it extend for a further two year the disapplication of the statutory requirement for any inquest into a death involve covid - 19 to be hold with a jury , which will have practical benefit for the coroner service . although the real - time impact of covid - 19 have diminish , they be inevitably delay in the coronial context , as inquest backlog — some of which be build up during the pandemic in order to manage wide pressure — continue to be work through . natural covid - 19 death would not normally be report to the coroner . however , where the cause of death be unknown or suspicious or have occur in state detention , covid - 19 may be suspect as a contribute factor . save for the provision that we be seek to extend , section 7 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 would require any inquest into such death to be hold with a jury , because covid - 19 be a notifiable disease . as the Minister may be aware , I have two tragic case in my constituency involve an inquest . do he not think it be about time that we modernise the whole system and give it more resource ? if somebody have lose a love one , wait for five or six year and never get resolution be not good . be it not about time that we look at the process and the training and do something a bit fast for people ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and I will take this opportunity to say farewell to he . his leaving will be a loss to the House . he make a good point . the propose measure will combat some of what he talk about , but there be a wide possibility for review as time move on . we want coronial inquest to be carry out and expedite as quickly as possible . as part of covid - 19 easement , the Coronavirus Act 2020 remove the requirement for inquest into such death to be hold with a jury , and the result resource pressure on coroner service , throughout the pandemic . to support continued pandemic recovery in the coroner ' court , Parliament sanction the replacement of the 2020 emergency measure with a provision in the Judicial Review and Courts Act 2022 to amend the 2009 Act , so that for the purpose of jury requirement and inquest relate to notifiable disease , covid - 19 do not count as a notifiable disease . that do not prevent the coroner from call a jury in a covid - 19 related inquest ; they retain the discretion to do so , as with any other inquest . the 2022 Act provision include safeguard to ensure that covid - 19 inquest be not treat differently on a permanent basis . any extension be limit to two year , be subject to parliamentary approval , and must be justify by an assessment of the impact on coroner service , be the provision to expire . to evidence the need for extension of the provision , the Ministry of Justice ask all coroner in England and Wales to estimate their usage of the disapplication provision since June 2022 and to assess the impact on their case management if it be not extend . the response rate be only around 11 % , but even among that small number of coroner , it be estimate that this provision have remove the requirement for a jury in around 530 inquest over the past two year . without it , even that small sample would have increase the annual number of jury inquest across England and Wales — typically around 470 — by about 50 % . about half the respondent predict a significant impact for their case management if this provision be allow to expire . this be because , as the Liverpool and Wirral senior coroner put it , " for each day of list for an inquest without a jury , it take a week ' s list with a jury " . that wide context be important . Parliament be concerned about the impact of inqu backlog on the bereaved , as the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) highlight . the extension of this measure for a further two year will support coroner in their continue effort to reduce those backlog , thereby promote the Government ' s objective of put the bereaved at the heart of the coronial process . that should mean that , subject to any assessment close to the time , I do not expect any future Justice Minister to need to seek Parliament ' s agreement to a further extension from June 2026 . may I , too , put on record my thank to you , Mr Speaker , and to the Deputy Speakers for look after our interest during this Parliament ? I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) on his brilliant maiden speech . we learn that his wife be call Portia . that be quite appropriate as we be discuss a justice Bill , give that Portia give one of the most famous speech on justice in " the Merchant of Venice " : " the quality of mercy be not strained ; it droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven upon the place beneath . it be twice bless ; it blesseth he that give and he that take " . I be glad he aptly remind we of his wife ' s name during the course of his speech . I congratulate he , and I be sure we will be see each other again soon — without be complacent in any way about the electorate . we will not divide the House on this measure . give the state of the backlog impact the coronial system , this be a sensible measure and the opposition will not contest it today . however , it be worth discuss very briefly the reason for the backlog and the Government ' s complete inability to get a grip on any aspect of our justice system . after 14 year of conservative rule , we have significant and , in some case , record high backlog across the whole of the court and tribunal system . victim and their family be wait year for answer and for justice . it have become the " Department of Justice delay " , and we all know what that mean . labour will work at pace to tackle the backlog that be grind our justice system to a halt , and to restore public confidence in the justice system , but we do not seek to divide the House on this measure . Mr Speaker , I hope to catch your eye later in today ' s proceeding in order to thank you and other , but now I will confine my remark to this measure and to congratulate the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) . this be a sensible measure , and I be delighted to see my hon . friend the Minister , who be my constituency neighbour — at least for a couple more day — in his place on the Treasury Bench . he will know that the Justice Committee publish a substantial report on coroner some time ago , and that we recently do a follow - up . this measure be wise and sensible , but there be broad issue that need to be tackle in the coronial system . I hope that either my hon . friend the Minister — if we come back into government — or any future Government will look again at our report , because the one thing that we have not do and that we need to do be tackle the root problem of the coroner system , which be that it be piecemeal and sit outside the rest of the normal judicial framework . I hope that a future Government will revisit our recommendation that we should move to a national coroner service . that would ensure great consistency and that the same service be provide to bereaved family right across the country , which be currently not the case . it would be a small investment but would do the right thing . there be , of course , a role for jury , particularly in important matter . I welcome the change that the Government have make to the representation of family at inquest , but , again , I hope that we can go far , particularly where state agency and public body be concerned . this be a sensible measure in the right direction , but I hope that we will grasp the nettle and have a proper national coroner service — something that have be recommend overwhelmingly in the evidence to the Justice Committee and champion by both Chief Coroners with whom I have have the pleasure of working , his Honour Judge Mark Lucraft and the recently retire his Honour Judge Thomas Teague . both have do a fantastic job as Chief Coroners , and I want to pay tribute to both of they . may I begin by echo the comment by the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) ? in do so , I pay my respect to he for his leadership of the Committee over the good part of a decade — we see so much change and churn in this place . I pay tribute to he for his knowledge , his experience , his humanity , his enthusiasm , and his ability to get thing do on the Justice Committee , of which I have be privileged to be a member for the last 18 month , and to bring positive change to many aspect of the justice world . I have no doubt that , whatever he do next in his professional career , he will continue to make great wave for those who be touch in some way by the justice system . as my hon . and learn Friend say , part of the Justice Committee ' s work have include look at the coronial system — first , in 2011 and , more recently , last year . we have look at all aspect of the coronial system , not least the impact that covid have have on its ability to function in the way that we would all want . the Minister be right to take a pragmatic approach by provide some breathing space and capacity within the coronial system , so that many of the case that need to move through the court in a timely and compassionate way be able to do so . as have be allude to , there be , of course , many other issue that need to be address . unfortunately , due to the sudden end to this Parliament , the report that the Justice Committee be on the very cusp of produce for the Government will now be in the form of correspondence that have go to the Department . I hope that it will be look at carefully in the next six week by Ministers , who will still be in post , as well as by official , who , whatever hue the next Government happen to be , can put it straight on to the table of the next Minister — hopefully , it will still be my hon . friend sit on the Front Bench — so that we do not lose any of the momentum that , hopefully , the report will be able to achieve . I agree with what the hon . Gentleman , my Select Committee colleague , have just say about the Chair of the Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . everyone know that he be a good friend of mine . we co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on miscarriage of justice , and he have be a brilliant champion against such miscarriage . I hope that the hon . Gentleman agree that the hon . and learn Member will be miss dreadfully by the House of Commons . indeed , what will the House do , with Bob and I both stand down ? the hon . Gentleman , my friend , be my first Select Committee Chair back in 2008 , when I join the Children , Schools and Families Committee — a baptism of fire , as it turn out . I have be fortunate enough to serve under a number of excellent chair over the year . I wish he well in whatever come next in the varied and colourful life that I be sure lie ahead of he . some of the detail behind this statutory instrument need the continued attention of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice . my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst touch on the need to look at the potential unification of the service , the funding model , how it be resource — we do not want to imperil the rule of law by make the service unworkable — potentially the need for an inspectorate so that we know how well the service be function and , as the Minister rightly say , ensure that we put bereaved family at the very heart of the process . I hope that this measure will be part of enable many of those change to take hold in the ensue year . Mr Speaker , as you will know , this be my second time around in Parliament — often call a retread , unfortunately — but , unlike Arnold Schwarzenegger , this time I will not be back . this be the last time I will be stand up in this place , so I want to take the opportunity to thank you and all your team for your support and friendship over 14 out of the past 16 year . I also thank my staff up in Cheshire , in Eddisbury , and in Crewe and Nantwich my previous seat : Roz , Dan , Lynn , Joel , Amy and quite a few other who come before they , include Sean , who have recently get on the candidate list and I suspect have a reasonable chance of find a seat , as we still have about 100 or so that have yet to find a candidate . if he be select , I wish he and his campaign extremely well , as I do my own candidate successor , Aphra Brandreth , who will be stand in the new seat of Chester South and Eddisbury . she be a first - class candidate . I very much hope that she will be able to join colleague here after the general election . with characteristic modesty , my hon . friend have not mention his own very significant contribution on the Justice Committee and as a Minister , and the contribution that he and his family have make to the justice system . everybody know the work that he , his brother and his father do to deal compassionately and humanely with those who go through prison . they and he be absolute role model . I be deeply grateful to he for his friendship and support , and we wish he all the very good for the future . I be extremely grateful to my hon . and learn Friend . I probably ought now to declare my interest , which be on the register , not least my brother ' s chairmanship of the Prison Reform Trust . they be there for all to see . it be true that there be clearly a gene in the Timpson family that make we want to reach out beyond our own family to help other , whether that be through foster or help ex - offender into work . that be something that , beyond Parliament , I want to continue to do . finally , I congratulate the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) on an excellent maiden speech . it take I back to mine in 2008 , a nerve - rack moment , but he deliver his superbly . I wish he and his family all the very good . I have a very young child when I first come into Parliament , and actually I have another young child when I come into Parliament again — it be obviously a route to success in this place . I want to thank my own family : my late mother Alex and my father John , for all the inspiration and guidance that they have give I , my wife Julia , and my four child , Sam , Elizabeth , Lydia and Nell . I hope that they will see a bit more of I now , and I hope that be the right thing to do . question put and agree to . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I wish to raise the statement that the Prime Minister make to Figen Murray , the mother of Martyn Hett , who be murder in the Manchester Arena bombing . she have walk 200 mile from Manchester to London to mark the seventh anniversary this week of that terror atrocity . the Prime Minister rightly meet Figen , at 1 o ' clock on Wednesday this week . as you know , Mr Speaker , Figen have be campaign for Martyn ' s law for several year , and in fact she give evidence to the Home Affairs Committee during our pre - legislative scrutiny of the draft Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill . we publish our pre - legislative scrutiny report in July 2023 , and we have not have a response from the Government despite there usually be a requirement for a response within two month . the Prime Minister tell Figen at lunchtime on Wednesday that the Bill would be rush through Parliament before the summer recess — that be at 1 pm , as I understand it . have you have any explanation , Mr Speaker , from the Prime Minister about why he would say that when four hour later he call the general election — clearly , no Bill could be rush through before the summer recess — and about the fact that he mislead Figen Murray ? first , we must be careful in the language that we use . I have no knowledge or information about what conversation take place . I will not speculate on what happen , and I know that the right hon . Lady would not expect I to speculate . however , she have put it on the record , and I think we will leave at that for now . I will now suspend the House . the Division bell will ring to warn member five minute before the House return . sitting suspend . on resume — victim and prisoner BILL : money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( b ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Victims and Prisoners Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by a Minister of the Crown . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . victim and prisoner BILL : WAYS and MEANS Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( b ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Victims and Prisoners Bill , it be expedient to authorise the making of provision under the Act in relation to income tax , corporation tax , capital gain tax , stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax in connection with a transfer of property , right or liability by a scheme under the Act . — ( Mike Wood . ) victim and Prisoners Bill : order of consideration order , that proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill shall be consider in the following order : Lords amendment 35 , 46 , 32 , 33 , 47 , 54 , 98 and 99 , 106 , 1 to 31 , 34 , 36 to 45 , 48 to 53 , 55 to 97 , 100 to 105 and 107 to 143 . — ( Mike Wood . ) victim and Prisoners Bill consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 33 , 44 , 56 to 60 , 63 , 64 and 142 . if those Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . clause 15 - Guidance about independent domestic violence and sexual violence advisor I beg to move amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 35 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : Lords amendment 35 , and Government amendment ( b ) and ( c ) . lord amendment 46 , and Government amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 32 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 33 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 47 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 54 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 98 and 99 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 106 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 1 to 31 , 34 , 36 to 45 , 48 to 53 , 55 to 97 , 100 to 105 , and 107 to 143 . it be a privilege to open this debate and bring the Victims and Prisoners Bill back to this House , slightly large and more robust — a description that I fear , after nine year in this place , could apply to my physique too . a series of amendment be make in the other place that we believe strengthen the intention behind the Bill . at the outset , I express my gratitude to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) , and to the usual channel for their work in a very short timeframe to ensure that we be able to proceed with the Bill today . it be a pleasure to serve opposite the shadow Minister . he know not only the huge respect but the fondness I have for he . notwithstanding the six week of to and fro that I suspect we may have during the election , I want to put it on the record that I genuinely wish he very well for the future . on Report in the House of Lords , we strengthen measure on victim to make it clear that compliance with the code be not optional and to bolster measure to hold agency to account for its delivery . we also introduce measure to give a strong voice to victim of offender whose conditional release be consider by the mental health tribunal , to make it clear that victim who have sign non - disclosure agreement can make disclosure to much - need support service without fear of legal action , and to raise the threshold for the disclosure of counselling note for victim so that they can now only be disclose where they be of substantial probative value . we also table an amendment in the other place yesterday to create a new ground within article 17 of the UK general data protection regulation specifically for the victim of stalking and harassment to request deletion of personal datum relate to false allegation . the amendment will help protect victim from further distress cause by the retention of such datum . I put on the record my gratitude and tribute to the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) for raise the issue and campaign on it , and to my friend the noble Baroness Morgan of Cotes for pursue it in the other place . I turn to Lords amendment to part 3 of the Bill relate to infected blood . I be grateful , and I know this country will be grateful , to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her tireless campaign in seek to expose and tackle this national scandal and ensure that those who have be victim of it receive the support and compensation they deserve . the Lords amendment do three crucial thing . they impose a duty on the Government to establish a UK - wide infected blood compensation scheme within three month of Royal Assent ; they establish a new arm ' s length body name the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to deliver the compensation scheme ; and they impose a duty on the Government to make interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to the estate of deceased infected people where previous interim payment have not be make . I be grateful to the Minister for all the work that he have do on the amendment , but could I ask he about the final group who have receive not a penny — the parent who lose child and the child who lose parent ? the Government have announce an additional £ 210 , 000 for those who be infect , to be pay within 90 day . there be no timescale for payment to people who have not receive anything yet . can he help the House understand when the payment will be make ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady , and I know that the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) have raise similar question previously . I know that the right hon . Lady and other be in correspondence with my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Cabinet Office . the question raise be complex and detailed . my understanding be that Robert Francis will be spend June have those conversation with community and with victim and family , so that he can work out the detail of the answer to those question from the basis of what those family and community want to see , rather than a Minister or anyone else pre - empte that . one of the key lesson that I and , I hope , the Government and this House have take from the work the right hon . Lady have do be the need to listen to those affect , and that be what Sir Robert will be do . I do not want to pre - empt that from the Dispatch Box . rise — I suspect that the right hon . Lady will want to enlarge on the point in her speech , but of course I will let she come back now . I be grateful . I just gently point out to the Minister that Sir Brian Langstaff tell the Government in April 2023 — over a year ago — to get on and make these payment . I have to say that work could have be undertake in that period to get to the point where payment could be make quickly , and it be very regrettable that that have not happen . I entirely note , and the House and country will have hear , the point make by the right hon . Lady . she participate in the statement by the Prime Minister and the subsequent statement by the Minister for the Cabinet Office , which set out the work that he have undertake at pace to make thing move forward . what we see in this Bill be a hugely important step forward , and I look forward to Robert Francis work at pace to ensure that the view of those affect be genuinely reflect in the detailed answer to the question that the right hon . Lady have pose . the Government amendment demonstrate our absolute commitment to deliver long - overdue justice to the victim . too many people , whether they be infect or affect , have see their life chance take away , watch love one die needlessly , and endure the most terrible stigma , none of which should ever have happen . I can only hope that , with the inquiry ' s report publish and with our firm commitment to compensate those touch by the scandal , the infected blood community know that their cry for justice have finally be hear . as I have say , a lot of that be a tribute to the right hon . Lady ' s work . the Government have also table amendment to make reform to provision on those serve imprisonment and detention sentence for public protection . we will be far reduce the qualifying period to two year for those who be convict when age under 18 . we will also allow the Secretary of State to have discretion to decide that recall should have no effect on the two - year automatic licence determination period , as well as require that an annual report be lay before Parliament on the support for those serve these sentence . I be grateful to member of both Houses for the constructive way in which they have engage with the Bill , and I be delighted that we will be able to complete its passage ahead of Prorogation . I will set out the detail of the motion that we be bring forward today in response to those outstanding issue . in respect of Lords amendment 35 , we be seek to amend the measure on the issuing of guidance about victim support role in clause 18 . victim support role operate across different setting , some of which be devolve . the Senedd do not grant legislative consent for this measure as previously draft . I be therefore table an amendment so that the duty to issue guidance apply to England and reserved matter in Wales only . I have consequently remove the requirement to consult Welsh Ministers on any guidance issue . I be grateful for the constructive discussion that have take place in relation to the important principle that sit behind this clause , which aim to improve the consistency of support service provide to victim . I be confident that we can continue to work together so that victim have that consistency across both country . lord amendment 46 be a technical amendment to move the clause on child victim of domestic abuse to the right part of the Bill . we have accept the principle of Lords amendment 32 , which will place a duty on relevant authority to co - operate with the Victims ' Commissioner when request . we hear the strength of feeling that a response to the Victims ' commissioner , as they do their important work , should not be see as a favour . instead , there should be clear and open co - operation as an integral part of enable the independent scrutiny that victim deserve . the Government ' s amendment make a few minor change . first , it extend require co - operation far than to simply assist the commissioner in monitor compliance with the victim code . instead , it require co - operation in relation to any of the Victims ' commissioner function , which include promote the interest of victim and witness . secondly , it add important safeguard to make clear that any co - operation must be not only practical but appropriate . this protect against potential interference with activity that be rightly independent , such as the exercise of prosecutorial discretion . thirdly , it future - proof the clause by put this duty on the agency that deliver service under the victim code , rather than include a specific list of body , which may become out of date . lord amendment 33 seek to require training to be provide to those with obligation under the victim code . of course , agency should and do have training in place to deliver the legislative duty to act in accordance with the code , but that training must be tailor to the specific function that each person be discharge , and agency be well place to do that . we consider that in place an additional burden on the Secretary of State to implement a strategy for training , this amendment would be costly and inefficient . it would not be proper for an amendment from the Lords to place financial burden on public authority . we also consider that the more effective approach , as have be commit by the Government in the other place , be to include a requirement for agency to report on the adequacy of their co - training as part of evidence in delivery of code entitlement . this give we a route to identify and address ineffective training if it have lead to non - compliance with the code . lord amendment 47 seek to establish an immigration firewall and prevent the police from share with immigration enforcement datum relate to immigration status . we disagree with this amendment because it would be inappropriate to impose a blanket restriction on the use of personal datum in the circumstance to which the amendment relate . it would not prevent the perpetrator from inform immigration enforcement about the victim ' s immigration status and would impact on the ability to investigate crime and support victim . lord amendment 54 seek to place a statutory duty of candour on all public authority , public servant and official after a major incident have be declare in writing by the Secretary of State . the Government share the desire to see an end to unacceptable institutional defensiveness , but we can not accept the amendment in the current form , because it would not sit neatly on top of the exist framework ; it be not well suited to replace what already exist for major incident and beyond ; it do not take into account the nuance of different profession in the sphere of the public sector ; and it could entail significant legal uncertainty . this be a complex area , so we believe that it would be unwise to rush forward with an amendment , but we have table an amendment in lieu to require a statutory review to determine whether additional duty of transparency and candour should be impose on public authority and public servant in relation to major incident . the review will need to be complete by the end of the calendar year , and follow its completion , a report will be lay before the Government . it will be for whichever Government be elect in six week ' time to determine what to do with that . we be also bring forward an amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 98 and 99 . the Government amendment will ensure that those convict of control or coercive behaviour who be sentence to at least 12 month ' imprisonment will be automatically subject to management under multi - agency public protection arrangement , or MAPPA . that will ensure that we effectively manage and target the most dangerous domestic abuse offender . a previous amendment be table in the other place to add domestic abuse and stalk perpetrator to those who qualify for automatic MAPPA management . although there be a legal definition of domestic abuse , a specific domestic abuse crime do not exist , with the exception of control or coercive behaviour . therefore , although well intentione , the amendment would still have require criminal justice agency to decide case by case whether a defendant be eligible for MAPPA management . consequently , the amendment would have not achieve the intention of reduce or eliminate any scope for local discretion . there be already provision in place require offender on licence to live only at an address approve by probation . far , all offender release on licence be subject to standard condition for the duration of their sentence . there be numerous additional licence condition that can be impose to address specific risk factor . licence condition allow for information on perpetrator to be collect and use to manage risk . the amendment would therefore have little impact on public safety but would result in significant resourcing pressure for police force . offender who perpetrate other form of domestic abuse , such as threat to kill , actual and grievous bodily harm , attempt strangulation , put people in fear of violence , and stalk , include stalk that involve fear of violence , serious alarm or distress , be already automatically manage under MAPPA if sentence to 12 month ' custody or more . add the additional offence of control and coercive behaviour will ensure that the most harmful domestic abuse offender will be automatically cover by the arrangement . the change will mean that those offender will automatically be manage in the same way as those convict of sexual , violent and terrorist offence . that be crucial , as control or coercive behaviour be a know risk factor for domestic homicide . treat those offender in the same way as the most violent offender be critical to improve the safety of domestic abuse victim . lord amendment 106 would permit the Secretary of State to re - release recall IPP — imprisonment for public protection — prisoner , and mirror the power of the Secretary of State to re - release recall offender serve determinate sentence . that be now refer to as risk - assess recall review , or RARR . that be an executive power and it will be for the Secretary of State to decide if or when to use it . the amendment also enable the Secretary of State to impose licence condition on a recall IPP offender ' s licence if the Secretary of State use the power to release they on licence . we agree that that be the right approach , but we have table Government amendment ( a ) in lieu to make that change , together with further measure relate to release that come under the scope of the clause . government amendment ( b ) in lieu extend the eligibility of the home detention curfew scheme to offender serve sentence of four year or over . the original aim of the scheme be to help suitable low - risk offender who have be in custody to reintegrate in society in a control manner . as sentence have become long , it be important to revisit whether eligibility for HDC continue to allow all those who may be suitable , and whose rehabilitation may benefit from the scheme , to be consider as originally intend . that mean look again at whether offender who be exclude solely due to sentence length or old curfew breach , rather than due to any assessment of risk , should be consider in the usual way for HDC . since HDC be introduce , sentence have grow long , and they should no long be the sole determinant of whether someone be eligible to be consider for HDC . a four - year sentence length or an old curfew breach be very blunt measure of whether an offender be low risk or suitable for HDC . the amendment increase the number of offender eligible for HDC , but do not extend the range of offence that make an offender eligible for it . all sexual offender and serious violent offender be exclude from the scheme , as be those subject to Parole Board release . those convict of offence that be often associate with domestic abuse , such as stalking and harassment , be also exclude , as be many other people , include category a prisoner . there be also a robust risk assessment to ensure that offender be release only if there be a plan in place to manage they safely in the community . in every case , that include a curfew back up by electronic monitoring . finally , Lords amendment 46 be a technical amendment to move the location of the clause head " child victim of domestic abuse " to the right part of the Bill . I would like to take this opportunity to put on record my gratitude to the Clerks , the shadow Minister and all my official who have work on this important piece of legislation : Nikki Jones , Katie Morris , Donna Bromyard , Elizabeth Bates , Isla Scott , Emily Halliday , Claire Anderson , Tomos MacDonald , Anna Webb — there be a few more , Madam Deputy Speaker — Alex Brown , Gaby Perrot , Liam Walsh , Aodhbha Bassani , Jess Cowan , Michael Rimer , the Office of the parliamentary Counsel drafter , Joel and Camilla , and my amazing private secretary , Ben Street and Amelia Prusinski . they have do an amazing job on this legislation . as I have say to the House , this Bill have the central objective of ensure that victim be treat as participant in the justice process , rather than bystander . the Bill deliver significant , positive change by strengthen victim ' right and the role of the Victims ' Commissioner , provide protection for victim , and create an independent public advocate — I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) for their work on that . the Bill create an arm ' s length body to finally move thing forward in respect of compensation for infected blood scandal victim , have measure for reform the parole system , and bring forward reform relate to IPP prisoner . the Bill have be a long time in the making ; get it into law will be a major step forward in strengthen the voice in our criminal justice system of victim of crime and of major incident . this be my last time at this Dispatch Box in this Parliament , and my last time speak in this Chamber as the Member of Parliament for Charnwood , because the seat that I have be proud to represent for nine year be be abolish in the boundary change , although I hope to be return as the Member for the new Melton and Syston constituency in the general election . may I take the opportunity to thank all colleague ? I particularly thank my constituent in Charnwood and my fantastic staff , Steph Bradshaw and Fred Seaman , who do so much for my constituent , day in , day out . with that , I commend these measure to the House . I call the shadow Minister . this be the last time that I intend to speak from the Dispatch Box in any Parliament . actually , I have one more statutory instrument to do , so that may not be quite true . Madam Deputy Speaker , thank you very much for call I to speak . I thank you for your service to this House in many different capacity over the entirety of my parliamentary career . I hope it do not cause offence in any other quarter if I say that you be my favourite Deputy Speaker , and I be sure that other share that opinion . that be in no way cast aspersion on the quality of your colleague , but we have know each other and be friend for many year . I wish you good fortune in whatever you do after you leave this place . I extend equal thank to the right hon . member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) for the way he conduct himself as a Government Minister . the way that he deal with colleague from across the House — with shadow Ministers , Back Benchers and other — be exemplary . he be a class act in that regard , and a model of what many of we should aspire to . I have be a Minister , and I know what a difficult job it be , and what a difference it make to have a Minister in a Department who take Parliament , and what Members of Parliament say , seriously ; do their good to accommodate opinion and measure suggest by other Members of Parliament ; and do not think that the Government have a monopoly on wisdom , or on measure when they bring a Bill to this House . the Minister be prepared to engage in debate and consider amendment , and I thank he for the way in which he conduct himself in this place . as she be in her place , I will mention the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . some member may be aware that many year ago she be a pupil at Radyr Comprehensive School when I be a teacher there , so I do not think that she would leave the House before I . or be a conservative ! indeed . I be obviously a lousy teacher , as she end up a Conservative Member of Parliament , but I wish she well in the future as she leave this place . I also send my well wish to the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who be a friend from across the House , and who conduct himself in a manner that we can all aspire to . as we stand here at this critical point , we be remind of how significant the Bill be . I be pleased that the Government have come to their sense and give the british public the opportunity to go to the poll and have their say on who will run the country , but that should not come at the expense of victim . that be why we welcome the discussion , hold through the usual channel , that allow we to arrive at what we have today . we will support the measure outline by the Minister . victim have wait for over eight year , and eight Justice Secretaries , for legislation address the failure and injustice that they face . support victim be a priority for Labour . in the spirit of bring forward the overdue change to our criminal justice system and begin the work of try to restore public confidence in it , we be pleased to support the Bill . we have strive to be collaborative throughout , and I think the Minister have acknowledge that . we recognise the Government ' s willingness to negotiate in the final hour of this Parliament . I take this opportunity to acknowledge the exemplary effort of my predecessor , who do most of the heavy lifting on the Bill before I take on this role : my constituency neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and Penge ( Ellie Reeves ) . I also extend my thank to the Minister for the cordial and constructive approach he have take throughout the Bill ' s progress . the Labour party be resolute in its commitment to put victim back at the heart of the criminal justice system , and we recognise the importance of not only listen to they , but go far and deliver robust support to they , empower they and enhance their right . on the duty to collaborate with the Victims ' commissioner , it be hearten to know that the hard work conduct in opposition do sometimes get recognise and be use for the benefit of the public . the success of Lords amendment 32 , which introduce a duty to collaborate with the Victims ' commissioner , be a perfect example of the effort exert by the opposition pay off . labour have be clear that it be imperative that we strengthen the power of the Victims ' Commissioner . although we seek to go far than we have be able to while in opposition , we recognise that the new duty on justice agency to co - operate with the holder of the commissioner role be a useful start . we remain committed to recognise the significance of the Victims ' Commissioner and the desperate need for that office to be strengthen . it be long past time for the system to be truly accountable for the need of victim not be meet , so we be glad that we be take this step towards have a fully empower Victims ' Commissioner . we have listen to the call of previous commissioner and victim support service and will continue to do so . we be firmly committed to far strengthen to commissioner ' s power , should we have the privilege of sit on the Treasury Benches in a few week ' time . on part 2 of the Bill and the provision concern the victim of major incident , we be pleased to see , through Lords amendment 54 , that our colleague in the other place understand the importance of the introduction of a duty of candour for public body . I thank my colleague in the other place for their hard work , and particularly Lord Ponsonby , our front - Bench representative , for his evidently persuasive contribution when move the amendment . I welcome the statutory review that the Minister announce , which be provide for in the Government amendment . labour be committed to introduce a statutory duty of candour . it be as simple as that . and we be absolutely committed to ensure that public authority and official co - operate with official investigation in the wake of public disaster , as they should if they be to act in the public interest . in the wake of several high - profile and devastating miscarriage of justice , this be more important than ever . only then can we ensure that we end evasive and obstructive practice follow state - relate death . although , to date , we have be deal with a Government who have drag their foot a bit on this issue — I hope the Minister do not mind my say that — we have at last have the opportunity to secure agreement in the Bill , and it now remain only to finalise the all - important last detail of how that duty of candour will work in practice . labour will work on that from our early day in government . if we win the election , we will make this change . on the infected blood scandal , it would be remiss not to refer to my constituent Sue Sparkes , who visit the House this week . she be at first , it could be describe as , elate by Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report , but she then describe to I how she become deflate as the Government make their statement to the House regard compensation . I be in complete agreement with my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , whom I work with on this issue for many year , long before I take my current role . she be absolutely right in what she say . I remember both she and I a year ago from the Back Benches call on the Government to get on with the design and payment of these compensation payment to the victim . I , too , be very sad that that work have not be do in the meantime , it would appear . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way with his typical generosity . do he agree that it be now important to move quickly ? the Cabinet Office need to meet and engage with the infected and affected community to make sure the compensation payment be right , and to ensure that the community be represent on the compensation authority board . the hon . Gentleman be right , as he often be . I completely endorse his remark . I thank he for the £ 50 he will pay to charity after lose a bet with I that there would be a referendum on scottish independence by the end of this Parliament . I put that on record , not because I do not trust he but because I say that I would send he the name of the charity after today ' s debate . he be a man of honour and a man of his word , so I know he will pay up . on a serious point , I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution on this important issue . his background in the trade union movement mean that he will always be thoughtful about the essential job of help the weak against the strong , which be what we be try to do in this place . I should also pay proper tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North . a few month ago , her amendment to hold the Government ' s foot to the fire on this issue cause they to suffer possibly their only defeat in this House during this Parliament , which be quite an achievement . to echo Sir Brian Langstaff , we must tackle the lack of " openness , transparency and candour " that have leave victim suffer for decade . we welcome the movement towards this important milestone , and we look forward to see victim get the financial redress they deserve soon rather than later . I should say that Les , the husband of my constituent Sue Sparkes , die in 1990 as a result of receive infected blood . there have be a lot of discussion and work , involve colleague from all party , to recognise the considerable concern surround sentence of imprisonment for public protection . ipp be and be a stain on our nation ' s criminal justice system , and we have acknowledge our role in the past . it be right that IPP sentence be abolish , and we share the concern that lie behind many of the proposal suggest by colleague , both here and in the other place , in relation to these sentence and prisoner . we have continually seek to work on this issue constructively and on a cross - party basis , wherever possible , which be why we be pleased to support multiple government concession on this matter , include Lords amendment 103 and 107 , agree to a new annual report and provision for those sentence to detention for public protection . I pay tribute to our colleague Lord Blunkett , who have do a great deal of work , perhaps to underdo some of the thing he might have be responsible for many year ago . progress for those remain on IPP sentence and on licence in the community be pivotal . we want to ensure that any solution propose be robust and assess with public safety properly in mind , as the Minister rightly say . in government , Labour will work at pace to make progress and will consult widely to ensure that our action for those on IPP sentence be effective , in their interest and base on the evidence in front of we . on the MAPPA issue in the Bill , we be glad to have agree on an overdue and important change in the arrangement in place to protect victim and the public from the terrible blight on our society that be domestic abuse . when the Bill pass , offender sentence to more than 12 month for the offence of control or coercive behaviour will now be automatically include in the multi - agency regime that exist for violent and sexual offender . that follow strong support in the other place for more rigorous safeguard in such case , where too often we see woman in particular leave to face repeat and escalate pattern of abuse within the relationship where they should be most safe . labour have big ambition in government to tackle violence against woman and girl in particular — far beyond the commitment in the Bill — but we be nevertheless proud to have put this marker down and to support this measure . labour ' s commitment to reform the criminal justice system to ensure that victim be more than just bit player be unwavering . we be pleased to have support and help to improve the Bill . our essential addition , from empower the Victims ' commissioner to introduce a duty of candour for public body , have highlight our commitment to the rightful place of victim at the centre of the justice process . we welcome the Government ' s movement in the right direction on pivotal issue such as ipp and on the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , notwithstanding the remark I make about the slowness of movement to get compensation out to victim . I thank the Minister for his openness in accept some of these change . I look forward to the Bill ' s conclusion — very shortly , I hope — and hope that the Act will be a step towards a new era of transparency and advocacy for all victim of crime . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . Madam Deputy Speaker , as we leave the House together , may I start by wish you the very good for the future ? I remember , as a keen young Opposition spokesman , be your shadow when you be local Government Minister , and I could never have have a more charming or skilful opposite number . I learn a lot from that . I see sit behind I two of my old friend in politic : my hon . friend the Members for Wimbledon ( Stephen Hammond ) and for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . we have be around the block — literally — in various local government campaign in London over many year . it be a certain irony that we have all decide to depart at the same time ; that will probably be cause for a good lunch at some point . I have not forget that I owe the Minister one as well . I pay tribute to the Minister for his approach . I totally agree with the shadow Minister , to whom I be also grateful — he have be a good friend in relation to this and to issue about the perform art and music , which we have both champion in this place — as well as the SNP spokesman . the Minister have be exemplary in his approach . we be fortunate in the team of Ministers that we currently have at the Ministry of Justice , include he and my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State and Lord Chancellor — although he be not here today , his name be on the amendment — who be a quite exceptional lawyer , a quite exceptional Lord Chancellor , a star in this Chamber and somebody whose integrity and commitment to the legal system will be long recognise . these be improvement to the Bill — I be glad about that . may I also thank the Ministry of Justice official ? I have deal with many of they over the year . I be sorry that they have have to put up with some of the thing that the Justice Committee have lob at they over that time , but there have always be a great , constructive spirit . in that context , I particularly welcome the fact that the Government have take on board a number of the Select Committee ' s recommendation in relation to our pre - legislative scrutiny of what be then simply the Victims Bill and become the Victims and Prisoners Bill , as well as some , although not all , of our recommendation in relation to IPP prisoner ; more on that in a moment . the scrutiny of the Victims Bill be particularly lead by the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) , who serve as my deputy on the Committee before she be rightly recall to the Opposition Front Bench . I thank she too for the support she give I on the Committee and the particular work she do for her constituent and for a well and fair approach for victim in these case . I also congratulate the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , whom I first meet when we be both elect to the London Assembly in 2000 , for the exceptional work she have do in relation to infected blood . we can work cross - party on these matter and she have perform a great service . in relation to some of the remain part of the Bill , I be glad the Government have move on the matter set out here . the co - operation with the commissioner be good news and I think we all know that the duty of candour be valuable and to be welcome ; perhaps it could go far , but let we accept it be a step in the right direction . the use of public protection and power in relation to the recall of prisoner and the extension of home curfew be sensible measure . home curfew be important . I will say it yet again , because I may not have another chance to do so : we need to be more intelligent as a society in the way we use imprisonment , which be expensive , and the way we use it at the moment be not always effective . alternative tool in the sentencing box , include the use of home detention curfew , enable we to get a well approach to balance punishment , which be legitimate , with rehabilitation , which be what we have to aim for if we be to reduce reoffende . if we want to reduce the number of victim of crime , we want to reduce reoffende . home detention curfew and other measure be a valuable step towards do that . they be by no mean the whole answer , but any advance be to be welcome . I regret that in the wash - up we do not have the Sentencing Bill , because that would have take many more valuable step towards a more balanced and rational approach to sentencing policy . I hope whoever be in government after the general election will return to the issue in the Sentencing Bill , not least because many of they have cross - party support . the campaign on IPP prisoner have attract massive cross - party support both here and in the other House . our Committee take compelling evidence on it , and in particular I want to thank those who champion it in the other place , include my good friend Lord Moylan , and Lord Blunkett . I wish the Government have go far and introduce the resentence exercise proposal put forward powerfully by Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd , the former Lord Chief Justice ; I still think there be merit in that . I would like to end by pay tribute to someone who , sadly , can not hear the word because yesterday I be at Middle Temple for the memorial service to the late Lord Brown of Eaton - under - Heywood , one of the most exceptional man I have ever meet . he be an exceptional lawyer , one of the last of the Lords of Appeal in Ordinary — the Law Lords — and one of the first of the Supreme Court . at an age when many would be put their foot up , he be regularly in the House of Lords until a month before he die . he regularly champion the case of IPP prisoner , and coin the phrase " stain on our criminal justice system " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 7 September 2017 ; Vol . 783 , c . 2074 . ] those be Simon ' s word . he will be pleased , up wherever he be , to have hear the word from the Minister that there will be movement , but I hope that one day we will return to the Simon Brown memorial amendment , the resentence exercise amendment . that exceptional person , who inspire I and many other , and his family will deserve that , because if it be possible to be both a lawyer and public figure and a great human being , Simon Brown epitomise that , and that be something we can perhaps all learn from . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , and I wish he all the good for the future and thank he for the work he do as Committee Chair . one of his memorable moment in the last few month be to chair the Committee sit in which I and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) be push the issue of the Horizon postmaster in Scotland and what that mean for we . that be a very intelligent session , with many legal expert , and he chair it in an exemplary way that allow the debate to continue . I have always find he to be one of the more interesting member of the House , when it come to discuss such matter , and very fair . I wish he all the good . I also wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , all the good for the future . like the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) , I be go to name you as my favourite Deputy Speaker . you always use to tease I that I have a glint in my eye before I be ready to speak in the Chamber , and I would always be coy when you suggest I be go to be speak next . I genuinely give you my good wish , and thank you for all the kindness you have show I as an individual and all the encouragement you give all hon . member of the House in carry out our duty , both to our constituent and here in the Chamber . what an amazing week it have be . it be suggest that this Bill might not make the wash - up . if that have be the case , there would have be an almighty furore from the infected and affected community . I think pressure be apply by member in this House , Members in the other place , and indeed the campaigner , to ensure that we get the Bill over the line . I be go to confine my observation to the amendment relate to the infected blood compensation scheme and set up the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , which I welcome . I also welcome , as I do early in the week , the excellent appointment of Sir Robert Francis as head of the authority and of the compensation board . like many other member , I be here to fulfil a constituent commitment , in particular to Cathy Young and her two daughter , Nicola and Lisa . it be one of my first constituency case : Cathy Young come to see I at Darnley community centre . I have know a bit about the issue — in Scotland we have the Penrose inquiry , which be untidy to say the least — but I get more and more interested , and more and more passionate , because it be a clear injustice . as the hon . member for Cardiff West suggest , I be a great believer that when it be time for an election , you do not shy away from it , but I do think that some of the event of the past couple of day have be a pity . on Monday , when my constituent Cathy Young be down here in London , along with her daughter , I think some people in the Government know that the general election be go to be call two day later . I do not believe that the Paymaster General do , but when he be on his foot deliver a statement about what the compensation scheme would look like , I believe that some people in the Government know that the election be go to be call the very next day . we be in an unfortunate position , in that there be now a lot of question that need answer and clarify before Parliament be dissolve . I be go to raise some of they in my speech , because we do seem to be in a bit of flux , which be a pity . I be go to take this opportunity on behalf of my constituent and the infected blood community , who have take member of this House to their heart , as we have take they to our heart . first , accord to the scheme and the discussion that have take place with the Cabinet Office , it look as though the parent of a deceased infected child will receive the same amount as those of a live infected child . that do not seem right to I , and I think it need to be clarify . there be also no mention of variant Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease infection among all this paperwork . a lot of clarity be need on the confusion between what be a widow ' s payment and what be an estate payment . the expectation appear to be that widow will distribute the money pay as an estate payment , but unfortunately that might be difficult , give the sad reality of life that some family do not speak to each other , for all sort of reason . it be suggest that widow would receive £ 16 , 000 , which seem to be less than they receive at present . the Government be also suggest that the support scheme payment will end , which be leave a lot of people distressed and very worried about lose those monthly payment . we need clarity and more discussion with the infected and affect blood community to ease some of those concern . we also need clarity about individual head of loss for the infected , because , frankly , we all seem to be in the dark . the uplift for psychological effect have also be omit . will that be cover by the injury impact award ? at the moment that be not clear , so that be something else that we would want to discuss . there need to be a discussion about what psychological support service there should be go forward , because this have be a difficult and emotional week for many people . lastly — this be very important — if people accept the interim payment of £ 210 , 000 , do that mean they be accept all the compensation value that be currently on the UK Government website ? it seem to I that we need a lot of clarity and a lot more discussion . I welcome the fact that the authority have be set up and that this place have force the Government to move on the issue . this have be the House at its good — just as many Conservative Members vote for the amendment table by my good friend the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) as do Members in other part of the House . this be a collective , cross - party attempt to address this injustice . I hope that those question will be answer , either in writing or in discussion with the infected and affected blood community , because we be all here to make sure that they get the justice they so richly deserve . any further delay will mean justice deny . it be a real pleasure to follow my friend the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) . I want to say a big personal thank you to he for all his excellent work over the year on the issue of infected blood , and for the important role he have play in the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , to get to where we be this week . I also want to comment on the remark of the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . I be very sad that he be leave the House . I have look up to he as an excellent role model for how to chair a Select Committee with grace and charm , but also with steel . he have not shy away from the effective scrutiny that be so vital to the functioning of this House through the Select Committee system . I wish he all the very good for what he go on to do next . as we be talk about Select Committees , I wonder whether I could also pay tribute to the member of the Home Affairs Committee , some of whom might not return to this House . I wish they all the very good for all the work they have do as Select Committee member . I also pay tribute to the work of the Clerks and the staff of the Home Affairs Committee over the past two and a half year that I have have the great honour and privilege of chair it . in particular , I want to mention Jo Dodd , our current Clerk , David Weir , who be our previous Clerk , and Mariam Keating , the second Clerk , who step up when we need she to during an interregnum between our first Clerks . I thank all of they . the remark that I want to make about the Lords amendment be very much in the spirit of what have be say about the infected blood scandal . as the hon . member for Glasgow South West say , what a week this have be . we start on Monday with the report from Sir Brian Langstaff , which follow six year of evidence hear by the independent public inquiry , which be absolutely damn about the role play by doctor , the NHS and the state , and a vindication of all those who have campaign over the decade . finally , we have the truth . there be a lot of ghost in that room in Westminster Central Hall . a lot of people who should have be there be not . I want to pay tribute to someone I get to know , Nick Sainsbury , who live just outside Hull and have be a pupil at Treloar ' s boarding school . he be a haemophiliac and have be infect with hepatitis C and HIV as a young boy . he spend his life campaign to try to find out what have happen and to get justice . very sadly , he die last year , before the final report be publish and before he could see the start of justice for those who have be infect and affect . I also want to pay tribute to my constituent Glenn Wilkinson , who start all this off for I back in 2010 , at a time very similar to this . a general election have just be call and I be hold my final surgery as an MP , and he come to see I — although I have since learn that he be so disillusioned with everything that he almost do not come to see I . I say , " if I be re - elect in the next Parliament , I will try to help you . " that be what start my 14 - year journey , work with Glenn and so many other on this campaign . finally , I want to say a big thank you to Caroline Wheeler , the political editor of the Sunday Times , who have relentlessly use her position as a journalist to shine a light on this issue . she have write a book , and throughout all of this she have be make sure that politician can not forget what happen and can not forget this search for justice . let I now turn to the Lords amendment . I thank Members of the other place , and the Ministers and shadow Ministers , for all the work they have do , but I want to remind the House how we end up with this section of the Bill . on 4 December last year this House defeat the Government , with 246 vote to 242 . why do that happen ? it happen because in April 2023 Sir Brian Langstaff have produce his second interim report , in which he say that in all conscience he could not wait to tell the Government that they need to start to pay compensation . he say that " wrong be do on individual , collective and systemic level " , and that people be die . we know that currently people be die at a rate of one person every three and a half day . Parliament defeat the Government — and I be very proud of this Parliament for do that — because the Government be not do what they should have do . Parliament make they act and put this provision into the Bill . that be what start the whole process , and it be important to note that it be cross - party . do I need to curtail my remark , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I be conscious of the fact that the debate must finish at 12 . 51 . I absolutely agree with everything that my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West have say about the question that still need to be answer . one point that I want to raise concern Sir Robert Francis and the engagement that will take place in the next few week . legal representation be need so that people can engage fully with that process and ensure that they be feed in the issue about tariff , which have cause a great deal of concern and worry . we also need to get on with provide psychological service in England . we have they in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , but we now need they in England , and I hope the Minister will take that message back . the other key issue be that of support payment . I want to associate myself with everything that have be say about infected blood . I also want to call to the attention of this House the cross - party work on Lords amendment 45 , particularly by Baroness Morgan , Baroness Finn , Baroness Brinton , Baroness Thornton , Lord Ponsonby and Lord Russell , to protect victim of malicious harassment . I thank the Minister and his team ; he know that this have be an issue that many of we have be vex about because we have be victim of it ourselves . he have be patient , and he recognise that we could not simply say , " this win ' t happen again , " and that we need to put something into law . in that sense , I pay tribute to all the lawyer and expert on stalk who have assist we , and we can not let the Bill go through this place without acknowledge the work of the victim ' commissioner for London , Claire Waxman , who be sit in the Gallery this afternoon and who have tirelessly fight for victim legislation . I have a few question about Lords amendment 45 — I would not be take part in the debate if I do not . the amendment be about stop harassment . at the moment , even if somebody who make malicious complaint be convict , it be not clear to many datum controller that because the record have be create by a process of malice , they should be delete . as a consequence , victim find themselves be pursue base on those record , and the amendment would give people a direct right to request a deletion . the Minister will know there be a concern that some of the exemption could be broad . will he commit to give clarity on when those exemption can not be use for malicious complaint , as be do in the other House , and to give protection to victim who be target in this way ? many of we in the public realm will be target ; we have an election come up , and we know that this will happen . many of we want to face public scrutiny , but our family should not have to pay for the price for it , which be what so often happen with these record . could the Minister commit to provide formal guidance ? I be afraid the Minister will not have time to sum up , but I be sure that he will be in touch if there be anything he wish to add . one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the debate be interrupt ( Order , 23 May ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83F ) , that the amendment be make . government amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 35 . the Deputy Speaker then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . government amendment ( b ) and ( c ) make to Lords amendment 35 . lord amendment 35 , as amend , agree to . government amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 46 . lord amendment 46 , as amend , agree to . Lords amendment 32 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 32 . lord amendment 33 , 47 and 54 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 54 . Lord amendment 98 and 99 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 98 and 99 . lord amendment 106 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 106 . lord amendment 1 to 31 , 34 , 36 to 45 , 48 to 53 , 55 to 97 , 100 to 105 and 107 to 143 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 44 , 56 to 60 , 63 , 64 and 142 . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 33 and 47 ; that Edward Argar , Scott Mann , Aaron Bell , Paul Holmes , Chris Elmore , Andrew Western and Chris Stephens be member of the Committee ; that Edward Argar be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . energy I beg to move , that the draft Energy Act 2023 ( Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 13 May , be approve . this instrument be technical in nature . it use the power in section 330 of the Energy Act 2023 to make various amendment as a consequence of the passing of that Act . the majority of the amendment relate to the independent system operator and planner , or ISOP , while most other relate to the governance of the gas and electricity code . there be other minor amendment to the provision relate to the hydrogen levy , competition in onshore electricity project , and heat network . the ISOP will be an expert and impartial body , with responsibility across the electricity and gas system , to provide progress towards net zero while maintain energy security and minimise cost for consumer . with role across the energy system , the ISOP will help to plan and deliver the integrate system need to ensure our energy security , net zero and affordability goal . it will be independent not only of other commercial energy interest , but from the operational control of the Government , mean that it will be in a position to use its expertise to advice the Government and Ofgem on the critical decision ahead . two type of amendment be need to give the ISOP a stable legislative footing . the first be to reflect its public nature — a shift from the current ownership by National Grid — by , for example , add the ISOP to the list of organisation to which the Freedom of Information and Public Record act apply . the second reflect the fact that , unlike the current electricity system operator , which hold a transmission licence , the ISOP will hold an electricity system operator licence and a gas system planner licence . that will require update in energy legislation to ensure that reference be make to the new ISOP licence , which will ensure continuity . example include update the Energy Act 2013 so that the ISOP can continue the ESO ' s current work as the contract for difference counter party . it be worth note that none of these change will come into effect until the ISOP be create , and current legislative reference will remain whilst the ESO continue to operate the electricity system . change will also be make in legislation in relation to code governance reform . the Competition and Markets Authority have previously highlight concern regard certain aspect of code governance . under the new system , the exist code administrator and industry planner will be replace by code manager , who will be select and license by Ofgem . those code manager will be directly accountable to Ofgem , and their responsibility will include make recommendation and , in some case , decision on modification to the code . this statutory instrument enact the necessary consequential change across legislation to reflect the new governance framework and licensing regime . an amendment to the Gas ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 be make to ensure that the right primary legislation be in place should the Government decide to introduce the hydrogen gas shipper levy in Northern Ireland . I commend the regulation to the House . I will start my brief remark with a few word about my hon . friend the Member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) , who would ordinarily be speak to this motion and be stand down at the election . I appreciate that " brief remark " and " few word " be not phrase that we would usually associate with my hon . friend , but there be a good reason for that . he be one of those parliamentarian who have a really deep knowledge of his subject and be completely across his brief . he have campaign on these issue for many year in this place , and have play a vital role in inform Labour policy for the future . whenever I meet stakeholder during my brief tenure in the energy and net zero team , it be very clear that he be widely respect by everybody in energy and net zero , as well as across this House . we wish he all the very good for the future . Parliament will miss his expertise and his commitment to tackle climate change . turn to the motion , we do not intend to object to this instrument , as the measure be generally consequential to element of the Energy Act 2023 , which we support . the creation of a new body , ISOP , now the National Energy System Operator , be essential to manage and plan the expansion and operation of our energy system as we transition to net zero . Labour call for the creation of this body as a " system architect " . we have be encourage by the early step the current Electricity System Operator have make in prepare for its new role . we therefore agree that establish its legislative basis fully be an urgent priority , and I be glad we have manage to address that in the wash - up . we also have no objection to the new governance framework for gas and electricity code . we support establish the Ofgem - license code manager role , as it be a sensible improvement to the current system , give the importance of gas and electricity code to the smooth technical operation of our energy system . other miscellaneous amendment in this statutory instrument include those make as a result of the Energy Act ' s provision to regulate heat network and create heat network zone . heat network regulation have for too long be a blind spot , and some consumer have have to pay significantly high bill as a result . so I emphasise again how important these new regulation be , and I hope that we can make sure they be in force as soon as possible in the next Parliament , whatever composition it might have . finally , Madam Deputy Speaker , let I say that you be my favourite Deputy Speaker . I thank you for your service to this House and to the people of Doncaster , and for the great support you have give to I in my nine year here and to many labour colleague . we all wish you all the very good for the future . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . please accept my apology for not put in to speak on this measure , Madam Deputy Speaker ; you will understand that it have be a hectic couple of day and I therefore hope that my bobbing would be sufficient . obviously , the SNP be not go to oppose this measure . we support the need for energy reform . when we look at the inflation figure , we see that they be so heavily influence by the cost of energy . market reform have be overdue for quite a long time , particularly in respect of heat network , give , as the Opposition spokesperson mention , the increase in their amount . in my constituency , we have Aberdeen Heat & Power , an incredible and well - embed heat network that supply a significant number of council property in the city . I would go as far as to say that it be one of the lead heat network , because of the sheer number of property it be able to supply . it give cheap energy to those property , which be incredibly important . we have make the case , as have significant number of campaigner , on thing such as stand charge , particularly for electricity and gas ; we have raise the concern about the energy price cap and the fact that it do not give a reduction in that respect . we be aware that in October we be again likely to see an increase in the energy price and that people who have manage to find thing a little easy over the summer may find they even more difficult this winter , because of the potential for increase . we will continue to make the case — the Minister would assume that I will — that Scotland have the power when it come to energy but we do not have the power to make the change that we would like to see to ensure a fair deal across these island when people pay for electricity and gas . I be talk about the price people be pay in their home when those bill come through the door . we be see high level of stand change in Scotland and of charge for organisation look to connect to the grid . frankly , we do not think that situation be fair and we would like to see change make . however , we be pleased to see that the Government be move towards reform and that this SI have be include in the wash - up process — it be good to see the Government prioritise it . I appreciate that the Minister have push for it and have take the time to move it today . let I briefly sum up . first , let I associate myself with the remark make by the hon . member for Manchester , Withington ( Jeff Smith ) about you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and about the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) . as a Whip stand in as a Minister , I do not think I would be reveal any secret to say that he have sometimes be a source of frustration for those on the Treasury Bench . however , we could never doubt his level of detailed knowledge and his commitment to public service , and we wish he the very good in the future . I also thank the hon . member for Manchester , Withington and the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) for indicate the support of those on the Opposition Benches for these regulation . the hon . Gentleman will not realise this , but many year ago he be my local councillor when I live in south Manchester , and I always enjoy get his leaflet through my door . as I have say , while broadly administrative in nature , these change will be vital for the creation of the ISOP for energy code reform and the continued development of the energy sector towards net zero . finally , these may well be my final few word in this House . this be , as they say , it . serve in this place be an honour and a privilege that few experience . I have do my good . it be all that anybody can do . question put and agree to . Tribunal and Inquiries I beg to move , that the Tribunal Procedure ( Upper Tribunal ) ( Immigration and Asylum Chamber ) ( amendment ) Rules 2024 , ( SI . , 2024 , no . 588 ) , date 1 May 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 1 May , be approve . this statutory instrument form part of the Government ' s preparation for the implementation of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which I will hereafter refer to as the IMA . the SI deliver the tribunal procedural necessary to implement the new appeal regime for suspensive claim already approve in Parliament , in section 44 to 49 of the IMA . the rule have be draft to give effect to the timing set out in the IMA . exceptionally under the IMA , in order to provide for swift implementation , section 50 provide that the Lord Chancellor , instead of the Tribunal Procedure Committee , be responsible for make the first set of rule for the upper tribunal , immigration and asylum chamber for the purpose of suspensive claim under section 44 to 49 of the IMA . this reflect Parliament ' s recognition of the importance of implement the Act rapidly to tackle illegal migration . as the Lord Chancellor ' s power to make rule have now be spend with the laying of this SI , the Tribunal Procedure Committee retain its rule - make power and will be able to amend or replace these rule as it deem appropriate under its usual procedure . we have keep the tpc fully inform throughout our work in prepare the draft rule , and we also understand that the tpc will review these rule as part of its priority to keep all nine set of tribunal procedural and employment tribunal procedural under constant review . before I conclude , this be the last time I will address the Chamber from the Dispatch Box as a Justice Minister this side of the election . on that basis , and I hope you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to thank all of the official and special adviser that I have work with in my time as an Under - Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice , particularly Harry McNeill Adams , Andrew Spence , Molly Parsons - o ' Connor , Claire Fielder , Christina Pride , Catherine Elkington , Tim Coates , Amy Rees , Ross Gribbin , Gemma Hewison and Jenny Pickrell . I would also like to thank the excellent special adviser Sally Rushton , Rupert Cunningham and Hannah Galley . finally , and most importantly , I would like to thank my private secretary , who have work tirelessly to keep I organise and on the straight and narrow : Charlotte Hewitt , Andrea Benjamin , Imogen Jailler and Naomi Hartley . I also thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . you have be a beacon of fairness and good humour in the Chair throughout my time in this House . I wish you well in your retirement . you will be much miss by this House , and the House will be the poor without you . to conclude , these rule will come into force on commencement of the duty to remove under section 2 of the Illegal Migration Act . the Lord Chancellor lay this SI on 1 May in preparation for that , have already lay the Civil Legal aid ( remuneration ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 and the Civil Legal aid ( Financial Resources and Payment for Services and Remuneration ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 late last year . by do so , the SI will be in place should the decision be take after the election to proceed with the swift implementation of the IMA . I can see that I be not your only fan in this Chamber , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure that I speak for everyone in say that we wish you well in what you do . we be also join by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . we thank she for exemplary public service in her time in this place . I also pay tribute to my dear friend , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , the Mother of the House , who have have an extraordinary career as a Labour politician . she be briefly — all too briefly , in my view — the leader of the party . I thank she for her service to the Labour party , to Parliament and to our country . the statutory instrument govern one of the few part of the Prime Minister ' s so - call signature immigration legislation to have actually be enact — the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . Most of the key clause , include the duty to remove those who arrive without permission , have not be enact because the Government know deep down that the Act be a bit of a sham . it be the second of three act design , but fail , to tackle the small boat chaos under their watch . we oppose that Act because we warn that it would not work , and the Government ' s reluctance to enact any of its key provision show that we be right . the provision in the statutory instrument govern the appeal procedure relate to removal under the Act , but no such removal be occur , as the duty to remove have not even be enact . the truth be that the Government have lose control of our border security . they have allow criminal gang to take hold of the channel and they have allow dangerous boat crossing to soar . they have lose control of the asylum system , allow decision to collapse and the backlog to rocket to a record high with record number of people in asylum hotel , which cost the taxpayer an eye - water £ 8 million a day . meanwhile , yesterday ' s statistic show that they have let return and enforcement crumble too , with return of fail asylum seeker down by 35 % compare with the last Labour Government . we will strengthen our border security and fix the asylum chaos . we will crack down on the criminal gang and their supply chain to stop the boat before they reach the french coast . we will set up a new border security command , back by new resource and counter - terrorism style power , to bring those gang to justice . we will clear the backlog with new fast - track procedure for safe country and end asylum hotel use to save the taxpayer billion of pound . we will also strengthen enforcement with a new return and enforcement unit . we do not intend to divide the House , but the british public will have their say on 4 July . it will be a choice between gimmick from the Tories and strong border security and real grip from Labour . I make a comment yesterday , but I would like briefly to thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your time in the Chair . whenever I have make a request , you have either grant it or give I a very good reason why it be not a reasonable request , which I really appreciate . as SNP Members have lay out on numerous occasion , we have many issue with the UK Government ' s immigration policy , especially the Rwanda policy . we fundamentally disagree with the decision - make process that be happen and with the ideology . from the SNP Benches , we can say on behalf of the people of Scotland , " this be not be do in our name , " because they fundamentally disagree with this . hon . member will know what happen on Kenmure Street , Glasgow a couple of year ago . the people of Glasgow , on behalf of the people of Scotland , stand up for one of our own who be be take away . it do not matter to we where that person be bear . if somebody want to come and be part of scottish society — if they want to come and live in our country , bring their skill , talent and culture , and contribute to Scotland — that be welcome in Scotland . this policy be not be do in our name . I understand that the statutory instrument be part of the Government ' s preparation in relation to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , which we disagree with at every stage . it be disappointing that Labour Members be use the same rhetoric and play the same game as the Tories on this issue . they be talk about small boat at every opportunity , but they should be talk about the issue that actually matter to people . they be fundamentally misunderstand the public view in Scotland . People in Scotland do not wake up every morning and worry about the small boat crossing — that be not the big issue . they be worry about the cost of living crisis , the NHS and their daily life . they support immigration policy that allow people to come . one of the good thing about the general election be call be that the change to graduate visa can not be implement . the Migration Advisory Committee report say that the graduate visa should continue , but understandably we have no faith in this Tory Government allow that to happen . the change relate to dependant will have a significant impact on so many place , particularly when it come to university , a number of which might actually go under as a result of the decision be make by the UK Tory Government . we have a history in Scotland of oppose Tory immigration policy and oppose crackdown that simply demonise innocent people who be try to escape unimaginably bad situation . we have fight against dawn raid ; we have have the Glasgow girl ; we have have a huge amount of civic action against take our people away . the shadow Minister mention the immigration backlog . it would be much well if the UK Government focus on ensure that the immigration system work , and that people who have apply for visa get a decision within a year , or a year and a half — or even , think about some of the casework I have face , within three year . it would be much well if they do not randomly move people from hotel in Aberdeen to hotel in Glasgow , while also move other from hotel in Glasgow to hotel in Aberdeen . it would be much well if they do not move people in Aberdeen who be wait for an operation to London or another place in England with absolutely no notice , and no justification apart from the fact that they get free legal advice in Scotland . give that the law and the legal system be different in the two country , people who be move to England have to restart their asylum case from scratch . our long - hold position be that we oppose the Conservatives ' rhetoric and ideology on immigration , and we oppose the Rwanda policy in particular , so we will divide the House on this motion and vote against it . [ interruption . ] it be the last day of the Parliament ; we be not go to compromise our principle simply because that would be more convenient for the Labour party . we be go to stick by they , act consistently with all the position we have hold previously , and vote against the motion . first , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) , who have be my shadow for what feel like a lot long than seven month . I be not completely convince by his claim of strong border under Labour — I be sure that the electorate will sort that out in the next few week — but he have be extremely decent in his dealing with I . I apologise — I should have thank the Minister for the courteous way in which he have deal with the Opposition spokespeople . I do thank he for that . for the benefit of the people in the Strangers ' Gallery , I should say that it be not normal for politician to be so nice to each other across the Dispatch Box . it get a lot bad than this normally . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his word . will the Minister give way on the topic of be nice ? I be really not sure that I should sully — no , of course I will . I appreciate that this be perhaps one of the most contentious bit of legislation that we have to deal with in the wash - up , but I want to thank the Minister for the constructive approach that he have always adopt towards the business , and in particular for the way that he have engage with the Justice Committee , which I have chair , on a number of difficult issue over his time in post . I be extremely grateful to my hon . and learn Friend , my constituency neighbour , for his kind word . I have know he for more than 25 year . if the House will indulge I , I first meet he when he defeat my wife in the selection for the Bexley and Bromley London Assembly constituency . we overcome that particular bump in the road very swiftly , and he have very much be a guide light and mentor for I in the quarter of a century that have elapse since . he be somebody who I have consistently look up to — perhaps not physically , but certainly in every other sense . I be grateful for the opportunity to close this debate . there will be a lot of valedictory speech , and my right hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Mr Jones ) will lead off on those , but I would like to personally mark this point . many hon . and right hon . member be retire from the House today , as be inevitable when an election come around . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . she have be an exceptional public servant over her 27 year in this House . take into account her local government experience in the London Borough of Merton , her public service extend for more than three decade . in my humble opinion , she personify all that be good about public servant , with her selflessness and her devotion to duty and to the people she seek to represent . the House will not be the same without she — or without you , Madam Deputy Speaker — and I want to get that on the record . I be grateful for the contribution to this debate . the measure be a key element in the implementation of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . as I say in open this debate , it be be consider today so that we can ensure that it be ready for IMA commencement after the election . I note the comment from the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) . I disagree with they profoundly , but that will be no surprise to she , because she disagree with my position profoundly , and that be perfectly okay , and we will obviously contest this matter in a Division . by lay this statutory instrument before Parliament , the Ministry of Justice have comply with the Lord Chancellor ' s statutory obligation under section 50 of the IMA and ensure that the appropriate rule and procedure be in place for when the duty to remove commence . I commend the measure to the House . question put . Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Duncan Baker John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Karen Bradley Graham Brady Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Tracey Crouch James Davies mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Michelle Donelan James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Michael Ellis George Eustice Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Lucy Frazer Louie French Chris Grayling Andrew Griffith Robert Halfon Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Robert Largan Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Tim Loughton Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Stephen McPartland Stephen Metcalfe Gagan Mohindra Anne Marie Morris David Morris Joy Morrissey Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline noke Matthew Offord Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Angela Richardson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Andrew Selous Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Mike Wood Jacob Young Mark Fletcher Mark Jenkinson Ian Blackford Amy Callaghan Angela Crawley Allan Dorans Marion Fellows Anne McLaughlin John Nicolson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Kirsty Blackman Chris Stephens the House divide : Ayes 135 , Noes 10 . question accordingly agree to . business of the HOUSE ( today ) order , that the Order of the House of 23 May ( Business of the House ( 23 and 24 May ) ) be varied as follow : after paragraph ( 15 ) insert — " the motion in the name of the Prime Minister on matter to be raise before the forthcoming dissolution may be proceed with until any hour , and may be interrupt by proceeding on Lords Amendments , Lords Messages or any Motion move by a Minister of the Crown . " — ( Rebecca Harris . ) Valedictory Debate Motion make , and question propose , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming dissolution . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) rise — I call the Mother of the House . this be my last speech . the House of Commons record show that I have speak in this Chamber 9 , 880 time . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] I have to say that , when you discover that the Prime Minister be only two year old when you be first elect , you realise it be time to move on . every time I have speak in this Chamber , I have have a profound sense of how important this House be , and what a great honour and privilege it be to be a Member of this Parliament . through good time and bad , I have feel that great sense of privilege and responsibility to my constituent . the thing about be an MP be that you be your constituent ' one and only MP , and it be down to you to be stand up for they , speak up for they , and on their side through thick and thin . I thank my constituent of Camberwell and Peckham for be on my side through thick and thin as well . I pay tribute to all the staff I have work with over the year . even my brilliant member of staff can not calculate how many time I have vote during those 42 year — many thousand of time — but I would say two thing about that . first , for the first 15 year , between 1982 and 1997 , I vote assiduously every night , sometimes even through the night , and do not win a single vote . opposition be undoubtedly public service , but we would rather be in government , and I profoundly hope that the person who I hope will be elect as my successor to Camberwell and Peckham , Miatta Fahnbulleh — I think she will make a great contribution to the House — will sit on the Government Benches . secondly , I have never vote against the Whip . that be not because I can not think for myself or because I be stupid or supine ; nor be it because I think my party have always be perfect — far from it . indeed , I fight for change from within my party , but I recognise that I be a labour candidate . I be elect as a Labour Member of Parliament , and I have be proud to be that , proud to be one of the team of Labour Members in my constituency and all around the country — that great Labour family . towards the later year of my time in this House , I have have the great joy of work much more cross - party and of chair Select Committees . I pay tribute to my colleague on those Select Committees for the very important work that those Committees do . I also thank the House of Commons staff : the Clerks who do such excellent work , and all those who work in this House , whether that be the security people who keep we safe , the caterer or the cleaner , many of whom be my constituent . they be all part of our democracy , and we should be grateful for their work . latterly , it have be a joy and a pleasure to work with woman from all side of the House — I see some of the sisterhood sit on the conservative back Benches . that have be a huge change for the well . although it be as long as 42 year ago that I first come into this Chamber , I remember so well come in — I be elect at a by - election — and stand at the Bar of the House . it be just ahead of Prime Minister ' s question . I remember look at the serrie rank of man on all side of the House , stand there in my red velvet maternity dress and feel completely out of place . of course , I be out of place in a House of Commons that be only 3 % woman and 97 % man . to those people who look back through rose - tint glass with nostalgia and talk about the good old day in the House of Commons , I would say that the House be well now : it be more representative . the woman who be in this House now — it be now 30 % , up from 3 % — also know that it be not that we be do they a favour , let they be here . they be a democratic imperative , to make this House of Commons representative . they need to have their voice hear ; they will not be silence . they be an essential part of a modern democracy . People sometimes ask I , " what would you say to a young woman now , give all the difficulty , the threat , social medium and so on ? would you really encourage she to go into politic ? " I say , " absolutely , yes . although it be hard , if you feel that you can make a change — and you can — it be really important that you come into this House of Commons . " at time it have be hard for I , but I do not regret a single day of be here . when I be first introduce to the House 42 year ago , my husband , Jack Dromey , be sit up in the Public Gallery , beam down his 100 % support on I , as he always do . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] obviously he be not here today , but my three child be in the Public Gallery , beam down their 100 % support . I be so grateful to they for that . in a few hour ' time , these Benches will be clear and the House will fall silent until July . then , they will be absolutely packed with new , freshly elect mp from 650 constituency across Scotland , Wales , England and Northern Ireland . those Members of Parliament will hold our democracy in their hand ; they will hold in their hand the future of our country . now it be time for I to pass that responsibility on to they . so , no pressure . it be indeed a great pleasure to follow the speech of the Mother of the House , who have a long record in this Chamber than I do . I pay tribute , in particular , to the way she have champion the cause of woman in this place , and woman ' s issue more generally , throughout her time in the House . it have be a pleasure latterly — perhaps in our early day we do not work together quite so well — to champion those issue together . while I be talk about woman in this House , may I take this opportunity to say to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the Chairman of Ways and Means , my right hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dame Eleanor Laing ) , what a pleasure it have be to have you both in that Chair , and to thank you for the good humour and kindness — but also firmness when necessary — with which you have deal with our proceeding ? I wish you both all the very good for the future . I would like to give a few more thank before come to some remark to be make before the Dissolution of Parliament . first , I want to thank my Maidenhead constituent , who at seven general election over 27 year have elect I as their Member of Parliament . I have always put great store by the relationship between a Member of Parliament and their constituent , and I consider my Maidenhead constituent to be the good of British . they be hard - work , they be entrepreneurial and they be compassionate . in all my 27 year , I have be strike by the enormous effort that they have put into help other and the voluntary work they do around the constituency . I have be delighted to represent this magnificent constituency . I will be the only Member of Parliament for the constituency , because I be the first and the boundary be now change , so there we be — that be my place in history . I also thank my Maidenhead Conservative association , include all the officer over time and all the activist . we all know how those who deliver the leaflet , knock on the door and raise the fund be an important part of our democracy and our politic . I also join the Mother of the House in thank the House of Commons staff , both those who be see and the many who be unseen and unheard . I thank in particular the police and security staff who keep we safe . it be bring home to we on the sad day of the Westminster Bridge attack , when PC Keith Palmer lose his life , that there be those who be willing to put themselves forward to ensure that we can be safe and that this Parliament and this part of our democracy can continue . I would like to thank my staff in my office , of whom I have have a number over the year . currently , they be Cameron Bradbury , Ryan Loveridge , Emma Willis and , in particular , Jenny Sharkey , who have be with I for 23 year , through all the thick and thin of my time in Parliament . I say a huge thank you to they . Most member of the public do not realise the enormous job that the staff of Members of Parliament do , and the significance of their role , but we owe they a great debt . my final thank , before move on to other comment , be to somebody I think I should describe as my good canvasser - in - chief — he be quite a good leaflet deliverer as well — who have be alongside I and support I for every one of those 27 year in this place , and for my time stand beforehand and as a councillor in the London borough of Merton , who be also there when I be Prime Minister , in the evening , when he have to make the bean on toast and pour the whisky when the day have not go quite as well as I have expect . that , of course , be my husband Philip . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] it will be a great wrench to leave this place . I want to be a Conservative Member of Parliament from the age of about 12 . I be always a conservative ; I have never be a member of another party . I have always be a Conservative in the room , and I will continue to be a conservative in the room . be in this place be a huge privilege , but it also bring with it significant responsibility , and I want to take a serious moment to comment on some of those responsibility . our responsibility , first of all , be to democracy . Democracy have raise living standard and lead to the betterment of people in so many part of the world . but sadly , democracy today , I fear , be under threat . while it be easy to answer the question , " what be the great threat to democracy ? " by say , " well , an autocratic state like Russia or China , " actually , we should never forget the danger to democracy from within . the most recent United Nations human development report show that , for the first time ever , more than half the global population support leader who may undermine democracy . there be polling evidence that an increase proportion of young people do not think democracy be the way to run a Government . we , in this mother of Parliaments , should do all that we can to show the value and importance of democracy , because it be democracy that enable people to have the freedom , to be the good they can be , and to do what they want to do , rather than what the state tell they they must do . so we have a real job , both politician continue in this House and politician leave , to ensure that we do everything we can to maintain democracy . sadly , we see in 2021 , in the 6 January attack on the Capitol — that great bastion of democracy — that our democracy be actually more fragile than we have think over the year . so I urge everybody to champion that cause . this place be also important because it enable we to be a voice for the voiceless . early this week I be able , as be a number of member of the House , to attend the funeral of the late Frank Field . he be a man who spend his life in this place give voice to the voiceless , ensure that truth be tell to power , and we should never shy from do that . it be important , powerful as this place be , and powerful as they may feel they be , that mps should always recognise there be those who do not have that power . mp should be there for everybody and should give that voice to the voiceless . there have be work on a number of issue across the House to do just that over the year , and I be pleased to have be able to help in some of that work . my final comment about responsibility be about the job of be a Member of Parliament . I think it be the good job in the world . of course , it have its frustration . it particularly have its frustration when you be in government and people , on your own side , do not vote for your legislation . [ laughter . ] three time ! but there we be . we get over these thing , we carry on and we come back . but it be a really important job , and the key to it be to represent constituent . I worry — I have say this elsewhere , and I will say it here in this Chamber — that too many people in politic today think that it be about they , their ambition , their career , and not about the people they serve . be a Member of Parliament be a public service . we be here to serve our country and our constituent . I have enjoy my time — although , as I have indicate , it have have its up and down . I spend 13 year in opposition , and I say to all member on the conservative Benches : " you do not want to do that . go out there and fight to ensure that a Conservative Government be re - elect . " I wish all the very good to my successor in the new Maidenhead constituency , and to all those who return to this Chamber after the election . I ask only that they remember the importance of our democracy , that they can be a voice for the voiceless , and that their job here be not to advance themselves but to serve the people who elect they . it be a great privilege to be able to speak today as the long - serve Labour Member of Parliament . I make my maiden speech on 3 July 1979 , and here we be head for a 4 July general election . I have be here a darn long time — nearly always on the Back Benches , although , in the mist of time , I sit on the Front Bench for 11 year under various Labour leader . I have have the privilege of do a range of job in this House . I have be think back in order to give advice to Harpreet Uppal , who will be the labour candidate in Huddersfield and would be come to this place for the first time . I be think this morning what advice I would give new member , and it echo some of the thing say by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who have be a good friend of mine over the year . we can be friend across the political divide . she might remember that when she stand down as Prime Minister , I say , " do not just disappear ; stay on the Back Benches . " and she have do , because , as she have say , it be a wonderful thing to do . I be so privileged to be elect in Huddersfield . I have have a hard time . the first seat I fight be Taunton , against Edward du Cann , and surprisingly I do not win — although I think I be the last labour candidate to come second there . however , when I arrive in Parliament , I feel that I be represent the classic town — I can not say the average town — of Britain . I be an economist . I be at the London School of Economics with some very difficult people — one of whom be sit right in front of I here . I learn to use the tool of the economist to assess the sort of job that I be go to do . the first thing that I do as a young Member of Parliament be to assess , as far as I could , the strength and weakness of my constituency . indeed , I raise some money to get Terence Conran to come to Huddersfield and assess the future of its once - vibrant manufacturing industry . we know that there would be few manufacturing job , that the world be change , and that , in order to maintain the high - quality , well - pay job that Huddersfield have have for 100 year , we have to have a diverse economy that do other thing . one of the great thing that his report say be , " make sure that you expand that polytechnic into a university , because that be the future for the skill that this country need . " I have Sir John Major in my constituency recently , give the Harold Wilson lecture . I remind he that , thank to he and Ken Clarke , another old friend of mine , Huddersfield transcend from have a polytechnic to have a university , which be absolutely crucial . I think all member be aware of just how vital university be in the town and city of our country . indeed , the only partially political thing I will say today be that we urgently need to address the threat to the long - term stability of the high education sector in our country . when I chair the Select Committee on Education and Skills , we produce a very good report on the challenge for high education worldwide . it become clear that we have to invest in the future of our university and ensure that they have the diverse income stream they need be viable . we be at a critical point . it be now for all party to assess that and do something radical about it , because it be so important . I want to refer also to the role of a Member of Parliament in Parliament . let we get the message out more , as the former Prime Minister do , about what a wonderful job this be . I be well known on these Benches as a bit of a troublemaker — the Speaker and Deputy Speakers sometimes have a really interesting expression on their face when they be not quite sure what I be go to say on a particular topic . after my 10 year as a Select Committee Chair , I decide that I would just do Parliament — that I would be here , raise the issue and campaign . much of the success that I have achieve have come not from just do the party political job . the House might not know that , as a young university teacher , I be involve in a head - on crash as I be come back from our second daughter ' s baptism , when someone on wrong side of the road drive into our family car . I think at one stage that my wife be dead , but she actually be unconscious , and we all survive — the child , myself and my wife . when I get into this House , I be determined to make sure that wear a seat belt would become the law of the land . it have be defeat 13 time , but we work together on an all - party basis . my only successful private Member ' s Bill be one that ban child from be carry in the front seat of a car without a restraint . Ken Clarke more or less help I with that , although I think only on the basis that I would stop push for mandatory seatbelt . it be a difficult job . as many people know , back in the day , Margaret Thatcher be against it and Michael Foot be against it , and the whip would try to stop it happen . we have to bounce the legislation out of the House of Lords at a critical time , the night before the royal wedding of Charles and Diana . because of the public holiday , a lot of people think , " what a lovely weekend . we ' ll get away on Thursday and we win ' t have to come back till Tuesday , " so we hide our all - party troop all over the House , and when the Lords amendment come back down here , we manage to get seatbelt . a wonderful friend of mine in the World Health Organisation say the nice thing that anyone have ever say about I , at a conference three year ago , just before covid : " Barry Sherman , with his obsessive interest in transport safety , have probably save more life worldwide than any other politician on the planet . " that be rather nice — I do not believe it , but it be nice that it be say . there be a time where people say that all - party group be dangerous or disreputable . some of the good thing that I have do in this House have be on a cross - party basis : campaign on the environment , campaign for educational change and campaign for clean water — all the thing that we be passionate about . I spend my life as a social entrepreneur look for people who want to do a little conspiracy — not 36 barrel of gunpowder in the basement but a conspiracy to do something that need do . the only criterion I use , and still use , be to attract people with experience , knowledge , passion and courage . we can do that on an all - party basis , and we have . I hope more of that will happen in future , because it be essential to this House that we identify what need to be do and use those sort of little plot and plan to make thing happen . we also need to involve people from outside — I be look at the Chairman of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) when I say that , because when we start look at miscarriage of justice , we find there be a whole world of senior King ' s counsel , probation worker and other who want to work with we to do something about the real inadequacy of the justice system . the hon . and learn Gentleman and I have become friend over the year , campaign on a number of thing in the justice sector . by represent a constituency , we learn so much about its problem . if we be do our job , year in and year out , we learn about child poverty , unemployment and employment . we learn what be happen in the economy . by look at our constituency , we can see what the need will be not just tomorrow and the next day but over the next five or 10 year . I sometimes get irritable , and I do not want to criticise too many people who be or have be member of this House , but people waft in here and have a go at be a Minister or shadow Minister . they think , " I have do that , " and off they go to do something else . I do not believe that be the right spirit . be a parliamentarian be a sacred trust . once a person be elect , they have a sacred trust and responsibility to the people who live in their constituency , and they should make they their priority . member should not try to become famous or try to find a nice little niche somewhere . their primary responsibility be to their constituency and its future welfare . I be sure that Harpreet Uppal , who will very likely replace I on 4 July , will carry that standard . I will now say something about the big issue . like my fellow member who attend the London School of Economics , I have always seek " to know the cause of thing " , which be the LSE ' s motto . why be this happen ? what have change socioeconomically ? I have be in the House when really good thing have happen and when absolutely disastrous thing have happen . I be a totally committed European , but I have not always be . when I be a very young candidate for a council in south Wales , somebody ask I to speak to the local woman ' s Labour party because the local Labour MP be much too enthusiastic about Europe , and I speak against Europe . and then I grow up . I see the huge benefit of be link with Europe , both for our common defence and for the future of our economy . my constituency have a high level of export in top - quality fashion , womenswear and menswear , and top - quality engineering . everything top quality in Huddersfield depend on the export market , and we have have some very severe cutback since we leave the European Union . Huddersfield be like everywhere else . two of the Kirklees constituency just vote to remain , and two constituency just vote to leave — the picture be very mixed . I finish by say that not only should we all be look to our constituency , listen to the voice of our constituent and campaigning , but we should not get too depressed about life . many conservative mp be desperately envious of I , because I be teach at the London School of Economics by Michael Oakeshott , who some people regard as one of the great conservative philosopher . I do not only his history of idea course , but his special subject : for two year , a group of eight of we study Machiavelli — what a privilege . because I be interested in the history of idea , I use to lecture on the subject , and I be always absolutely strike by the work of Thomas Malthus , who be the rector at Bath . he write the theory of population , which hold that so many people be breed so quickly that the country would not be able to feed its people , suggest that it be the end of the civilised world . as I lecture on Malthus , I think about the present concern with global warming and climate change , which be the existential challenge that we all face . I want to end on this note : I be an optimist . Malthus be wrong , because he underestimate how clever human being be . we revolutionise agricultural production with the crop rotation system . we develop fertiliser . we invent not only canal , but railway . we transport good and people . we change the whole basis of the malthusian project . today , there be the existential challenge of climate change and global warming — it be go to happen . I recently help to launch " here come the Sun " , a book on this issue by Professor Steve Jones , and the fact of the matter be that that challenge be come , but we human be clever . through our university , business and member of Parliament , we will get the answer so that our planet do not start to fry and life do not end . that be my message today . it have be a privilege and an honour to be here . I have wonderful staff in Yorkshire and wonderful staff here . I have give hundred of young people the chance to get into politic through all the internship programme that we have have with the LSE , Cornell University and so on . thank goodness that I have have the chance to be here all these year . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; thank you , fellow parliamentarian . I love you all . we do not have time for I to share all my anecdote about my experience during my 19 year of be a Member of Parliament . I could tell the House about my trip to Iran with Jeremy Corbyn and Jack Straw , which be like something out of Monty Python — I turn out to be the most pro - european of the three , and it be a certainly an extraordinary experience — or about the touching and important time when , as the Security Minister , I join the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) on a visit to a mosque in her constituency . she have campaign against antisemitism for year and year , and she have represent the very good of labour ' s position on jewish community and the jewish member of her party for many decade . as an MP , those kind of thing touch you and go with you in your memory . I would first like to thank my family . the people who make the real sacrifice for we to be in this House be not we ; they be the wife , the husband and the child , who put up with bullying , separation and all sort of concern . in today ' s world of social medium , they put up with hate as well . without they , none of we could be here at all . I will mention the staff in my office . I be very privileged that Zoe Dommett have work for I since three week after the day I be elect 19 year ago . some of we have colleague who seem to get through staff like a rotate barrel but , luckily , Zoe , Alf Clempson , Susan Hunt and Una Frost have work for I for many year . Alf Clempson be my sergeant in the Army , and he be still work for I today . I turn to the staff of the House . without the Clerks , the waitress , the maitre d ' s and the Doorkeepers , none of we would be able to our job . long after the debate have get interesting , they still have to hang around this House when many of we can go home or elsewhere . they be absolutely key . they do everything for all of we , without judgment or party political bias , and , in my experience , they be never anything other than polite and supportive . I thank they all the way . I be go to list all my civil servant — not all 240 , 000 from the Ministry of Defence . I have be very privileged in this House to serve in government and to govern . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) for give I the chance to be her Security Minister . our job be to represent all our constituent , but it be to govern on their behalf as well . that be a true privilege and it be also luck . I use to see colleague who would think it be their right to govern and that only they be the special people . we be choose by whip and Prime Ministers , often at random , but we be not special , not " the one " and should never take it personally . we may have month or year — although , let we face it , in the past few year in this government , it could be week . I feel incredibly lucky to govern on behalf of my constituent and the constituent of this Government , alongside the team that be the Government — that be what it be : a team . I never vote against the government — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] there be the Whips . luckily , the smoking ban legislation never make it or I might have be vote against that part of the Bill , so my unblemished record will remain . it be a team ; we should not forget that what allow we to govern be our civil servant — hundred of they . my private office and my private secretary put in hour and hour , unknown , unnamed and often blame by some colleague and the medium for thing not go right . if it do not go right in government , it be because the Minister be not govern right , be not a good Minister , be not do the extra hour need , be not make themselves clear and be not take an interest in how they govern . we govern not just by brand , declaration and policy ; minister govern by use process , the right people and policy , and by communicate . those who be good govern across the House as well . the House be at its good during discussion about Ukraine . it be at its good when I work with colleague in all party , include the then leader of the Scottish National party at Westminster , the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , and when I could sit down and talk to the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) about secret and threat to our constituent . it be at its good when we have a Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead , who know security , and take the hour and day need to read the intelligence and treat it with the severity it need . the right hon . Gentleman be make an outstanding speech . I thank he for the role he play as Defence Secretary and the courtesy he show to member across the House , include the Leader of the Opposition , the then leader of the Liberal Democrats and myself . he be gracious enough to ensure we be brief on a bi - weekly basis , because there be time when the House must come together over matter of national security . what an example the right hon . Gentleman set , and I thank he for the role he play during that time . hear , hear . one of the lesson I learn when I be first elect to the Scottish Parliament in 1999 — it be a bit like be behind enemy line for a conservative ; there be 13 of we out of 123 — be that it be a surprise who be nice or helpful . I remember Dennis Canavan , a former Member of this House , who never quite make it past the Tony Blair vetting system to be a Labour Member in the Scottish Parliament , and who be hard - leave in definition , be extremely supportive and kind to I as a new Member of Parliament . member never know where they might get support , and they should be open to it . it be amazing how people ' s politic be often separate to their kindness or their need for support for what they want to do . we be all in this House to do the good job for our constituent , who be the people I would like to thank finally : my constituent in Lancaster and Wyre and then in Wyre and Preston North . I win a seat in 2005 and I win in opposition . I remember sit in the Cabinet of Liz Truss and realise I be the only member of the Cabinet who have be in opposition . when I stand down last September , I be the last Minister appoint by David Cameron who have continue to be a Minister throughout . I have serve five Prime Ministers , which I think be a record , although probably self - inflict by the conservative party . nevertheless , to serve five Prime Ministers as a Minister uninterrupted be not only an experience but show the time of change we be live in . I do not think any party be go to be insulate from those type of change . our public , our discourse , our medium and the social medium pressure be change our society and not for the well . People be not want to take time in make decision ; people be try to do thing at a rush . there be a lack of stability in our society , there be disinformation , there be division , there be aggression , and I fear very much , as someone who have study the threat every day for seven and a half year both as a Security Minister and a Defence Minister , that we be move into a period where the world be less stable , less secure and more anxious — and that be also the case here at home on these beautiful shore . it sadden I , because as a young man and indeed as Defence Secretary I often or sometimes would have to inflict violence on behalf of the state to defend other . it be no easy thing to do and we should never celebrate it , but we have to do it to keep ourselves safe . yet I always think of the victim or the consequence of those action that we take . People do not realise that the sole authority in Government for the use of lethal force lie with the Secretary of State for Defence and that it can be veto by a Prime Minister . they be the only two who in the end make decision that often affect people ' s life and death and that send people into harm ' s way on behalf of the state . that be a very important responsibility and I know that whoever , from whichever party , do that job next will be well support by the man and woman of the armed force and the civil servant and the security service , who absolutely put sacrifice and duty first and should be an inspiration to we all . at Sandhurst I be teach the motto " serve to lead " : that the way we lead people , whether our troop or the public , be to give up ourselves , to sacrifice ourselves for their service , and that mean sacrifice our ego and sometimes our ambition and , sadly , sometimes cost our private life as well . ultimately , if we in this House do not realise that duty and service be how we serve this country , I do not know who else will . we must maintain those standard and maintain that principle for eternity , because as my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead say , across the world people be not believe in democracy or the rule of law , and people look to Britain . when go around the world as Defence Secretary or Prime Minister or Foreign Secretary or represent the opposition , we learn that people look to Britain still for tolerance , for democracy , for the rule of law . we must recognise that that be part of our dna and our core . I be sad that we will have another general election , although of course that be the nature of this wonderful democracy . it will be my sixth general election , but I will not be fight it , and I know that across this House many of our colleague of different party will lose their seat through no fault of their own . they will have do everything in their time here : they will have serve their constituent , sacrifice family time ; they will have do their very good . they will have try to answer the email from the impossible constituent , they will have put up with threat , and they will lose their seat because on polling day someone will decide they do not like their Prime Minister or their leader , and that be the way of thing . People should not take it personally , and I say to colleague present who may not return to this House that , in my experience , " if the boundary don ' t get you , the electorate one day will . Don ' t take it personally — you be love by all of we and you will remain so . " so , Madam Deputy Speaker , thank you : thank you to this House , which I use to dream about join when I be a young boy at school . politic be the only a - level I actually enjoy ; I be inspire by a teacher . I get a d in it I be afraid to say ; my child laugh at that whenever I tell they . nevertheless , politic be about people and when we forget that we be in trouble and the bad for it . the final thing I would say as an election be approach — we be almost already in it — be that I always try to make sure that defence be a core part of Government , not a discretionary spend stick on the end . we hear , in all part of the House , line such as " defence do not win election . " well , it can lose they . I live in the north - west of England and I be not try to be party political , but loyal , patriotic Labour voter reject the Labour party in 2019 because they feel that the leader at that time do not care about defence and about they . defence matter . it be not an add - on after health and education . when we come to write our manifesto , let we please include investment in defence . let we ensure that it be core , and let we not allow leader to say thing like " when economic condition allow " . we do not say that about health , and we do not say it about education . have read so much intelligence for so many year , I be frightened to think that by the end of this decade , if our armed force and our security service be not match - fit for the threat that be come our way , we will have only ourselves to blame . it be our child who might have to go and fight for we , and they deserve to be as protect as possible , with the good equipment and the good ally . rise — Order . before I hand over the Chair to Nigel Evans , I hope the House will forgive I if I indulge myself slightly by take this last opportunity to thank everyone for the kind remark that have be make over the past day or so about my step down . I be deeply touch by what Mr Speaker say this morning , and I thank he for all the support he have give I over the year , as well as my fellow Deputy Speakers . it have mean so much . we have have some difficult time in this Parliament , and Mr Speaker ' s leadership and that of his team have essentially get we through it . despite those pressure , however , we have manage to have quite a lot of fun and laugh , and it have be a great team to be part of . it have be a privilege to be in this Chair and to witness at first hand the work that member of this House do on behalf of their constituent and on behalf of the country . yes , it can get a bit argumentative , and yes , it can get rather passionate sometimes — as I witness recently myself — but that be the price of our democracy , and , as other have say , we be lucky to have it . I be proud to have be able , as Deputy Speaker , to play a part in that . I also want to thank , once again , all the staff of the House for — as other have say — make the House work so effectively . I thank the excellent clerk for their wise and calm advice , and , of course , I thank the utterly magnificent Doorkeepers who look after we all so well . this really be water in my glass , by the way ; it be not gin and tonic , as someone suggest to I yesterday . like other , I have be extremely lucky to have have a brilliant team in my constituency office , and excellent adviser here in Parliament . I have also be very lucky with my local Labour party , whose member have work so hard and so diligently over the year . I wish all right hon . and hon . member well for the future , whether or not they be stand for election again . finally , I want to thank the people of Doncaster : I have be honour to serve as their representative in Parliament for 27 wonderful year . let I start by thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . you have be the fair , most tolerant , most patient and most wonderful Deputy Speaker — as , indeed , have the other — and I think we should all thank you for the calm and discipline manner in which you have conduct what have sometimes be very difficult debate . I also acknowledge the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) for be incredibly kind to all hon . member when he be Security Minister and we face challenge . I be always astound by the amount of time that he be willing to spend with we individually to support we through those difficult time . I hope that he carry on be a strong voice , in a different capacity , to ensure that we do the most important thing that we can do as a Government , which be defend the british people . I acknowledge the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who be no long in her place . she and I be both candidate in Barking in 1994 . I beat she , but I have a wonderful video of we both , she as Essex girl , I as rather harass mum . she quickly transform herself from Essex girl to Maidenhead woman , and then have an incredibly successful career here . I thank she . I make my maiden speech from this position . I remember it well ; I be absolutely petrified that I be go to stutter , but I get through it . my husband and four child be here watch I . I do the usual thing of sit down and listen to a couple of speech , then we all go to have a cup of tea and some scone . I come back for the wind - up and sit up in the corner . suddenly , I hear the mighty voice of Betty Boothroyd admonish I for have sit in the wrong place , because I do not have a clue that the protocol of the House mean that we have to sit where we have give our speech when we come back for the wind - up . I feel really tell off , but I realise that that be the role of the Speaker . another early experience that I must share with the House reflect the challenge that many hon . member face in balance our responsibility as member of the House and our role as parent and carer at home . it happen early in my career , when Tony Blair have just be elect as leader of the Labour party . I know that if I sit behind he at Prime Minister ' s question , the good burgher of Barking would think that I be really work hard . to do that , I have to bag my place about half an hour before it start , so I sit down feel pleased with myself and wait for it to start . in those day — this be so long ago — we do not have phone but pager , and as pmq start and Tony make his first contribution , my pager suddenly go off . it be my 15 - year - old daughter say , " Mum , ring home . emergency . " she be suppose to be revise for her gcse , so I think , " goodness , have the house catch fire ? be she go to tell I she ' s pregnant ? " I have no idea what it be . I give up the seat , rush outside , pick up the phone and say , " what be it , Anna ? what ' s happen ? " she say , " oh nothing , Mum . I just want to see whether you have your pager on silent . " that may be enough of the funny reflection , but perhaps I will mention one more — the time that my dental bridge fall out as I be give an impassioned speech on transparency in british tax haven . I suddenly think , " what on earth ' s happen ? " I be rescue by my true friend , my hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , to whom I will always be indebted . she immediately intervene , which mean that I could sit down and sort my mouth out before get up to continue my contribution . as other hon . member have , I want to thank everybody . I thank all the staff in Westminster who make our life easy , safe and more effective . it be only now that I be about to leave this place that I realise how well we have all be look after by everybody here . from those who keep our room tidy and clean , to those who provide endless food and drink , keep we safe , support we in Committees and the Chamber , make sure that we stick by the rule and record the word that we speak , we have the most brilliant team of people , who put up with a lot , on whom we be all very dependent , and to whom I express my heartfelt gratitude and thank . I thank , too , all the staff who have serve I . I have not manage to hang on to anybody for 30 year , but I have have endlessly wonderful staff support I , both here in Westminster and in the constituency — and of course I thank all my constituent in Barking , whom I love deeply , and the party that have support I down the year . I also want to thank the very many member of this House , both in my party and across the Chamber , from all the political tribe , who have show friendship down the year and display willingness to work together across the House to achieve change that we all believe will make Britian a well country . so often , politic be portray as poison , polarised , personal and painful , and sometimes it be , but the good work we do in this Chamber , in Select Committees and through all - party parliamentary group happen when we come together and find consensus , and when a shared ambition and approach bring we to a collective solution that we can all support . when we work together , we achieve much more lasting change that really will make the world a well place . as I leave this position , I would like to share one reflection with the House . we be live through a period of increase and increase mistrust of politic and politician . when I first become an MP , I be always really proud to tell people I meet that I be an MP . for I it be not a job , but a vocation . I be sure that many of we in the Chamber share that feeling . like most people who seek election , I just want to play my little part in make the world a well place , and in equalise life chance in every community , but thing have change in the last few year . I do not know whether other feel the same , but now I often feel that I have to apologise to people for be an MP . we be too often distrust as a group , and our effort be ridicule and mock . it be not that people be apathetic about politic . it be that they be angry about politic . they feel that we do not listen , that we exist in our own bubble here in Westminster , that we be in it just for ourselves , that we put party before country , and that we put self - interest before our constituent ' interest . that may not be true , but that be what people feel . we all know here that politic really do matter . it matter a lot . it matter in every family and every community . I know that ; we all know that . from my very first campaign as an MP , to change the rule govern the prescribing of a particular painkiller whose side - effect have a life - change impact on a constituent , to the recent campaigning I have do for smart regulation to turn the tide on dirty money , politics matter . what we decide here can make a difference . my fear be that the anger that people feel will turn to apathy , and people will not use their democratic right to vote in the general election . a low turnout could well be the main headline from this come election . of course we need to clean up politic and stop the abuse that have become too commonplace in too many way , from Ministers not abide by the nolan principle to money — too often dirty money — buy access , peerage , honour and contract . we must also go back to our basic : the basic of listen to our constituent , respond to their need and not ours , and reflect their priority in the work that we do here . I hope that the next group of Members of Parliament , when they be elect on 4 July , will take all that really seriously , and see rebuild trust in politic and democracy as a prime objective that they have to meet during the next Parliament . leave be bittersweet . I have already sign up to piano lesson , and I be hope to spend a bit more time with my too many grandchild , who have not see enough of I , but I also know that this have be the privilege of my life . be a Member of Parliament , meet and mix with so many talented , generous , warm , committed and principled people , have be a pleasure , a joy and a privilege . I will miss it like mad , but I wish everybody really well . thank you , Margaret . we will miss you like mad , too . we love you . I be not expect to speak today , as I do not know there be a slot today for valedictory speech . during yesterday ' s statement , I speak about the importance of the NHS , and say that that would be the end of my contribution , but I see Mr Speaker last night , and he explain that some time would be give over to valedictory speech today . have have the Conservative Whip restore this week , I be delighted to say that many , many colleague have say , " you should say something and reflect . " I start by say what an honour it be to follow the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , who teach I an enormous amount when I be a new Member of Parliament and I serve on her Public Accounts Committee . it be our Public Accounts Committee in theory , but as she be Chair , it be very much her PAC . I undertake to read every word of every draft report , because she be brilliant at occasionally — [ interruption . ] she be laugh , which I take as an admission of guilt ; she know what I be go to say . she would occasionally stick in a sentence that put the boot into the Government , but she would put it on about page 29 , hope that nobody else in the Committee would notice . I take it upon myself to read the detail , and I learn that from she . I have , of course , find serve in this House to be the privilege of my life — I be sure we all feel that . I agree strongly with the word of the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , and the former Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , about the importance and value of public service . politic , no matter how difficult it can be , be public service , because in a democracy it be the only way to translate the will of the people into the governance of the nation . we be the channel through which that should happen , and I want to thank some people who have help make it happen for I . I want to thank the people who get I into politic in the first place , particularly Dr Michael Hart , who be also the man who spot my dyslexia , and Nick St Aubyn , the man who suffer most from my dyslexia . I be his agent in the 2001 general election , when he be the Member for Guildford . let I retell a terrible story . he have write his election address and I have put it into a very early version of PowerPoint . he have write this lovely phrase , " I want to unite the community " . I think it be great , so I put it into the headline . it be only when 42 , 000 copy of the election address have be deliver that he pick a copy up from his doormat and say , " Matt , why have your write , ' I want to untie the community ' ? " he take it very well , but unfortunately he lose the seat , and I do not speak about my dyslexia for 20 year after that because of the shame it bring I . he also forgave I , which be a truly heroic act . I thank my staff here , particularly Helen Dudley , who retire a few year ago , and Elizabeth Hitchcock . I thank the countless other who have support I in my office here in Parliament , but those two have always hold the thing together . especially in time in government , when it be hard to give as much time as one would want to one ' s constituency duty , they really have take action . both of they be prefer to I in West Suffolk and do a much well job than I could have do . I thank all the civil servant with whom I serve and work so closely , but I also want to put in a word for special adviser . let I give one short story about why special adviser be such a valuable and important part of our political system . in the pandemic , member might remember that during the vaccination programme there be an interval — a gap — between two dose of the vaccine be give . I can not remember how long it be — it might have be 12 week . one of my political special adviser spot a tweet from an american statistician say that , because the first vaccine have a much great impact than the second , if we reduce the number of week between the first and the second be give , we would save many life . he spot the tweet and bring it to I . I take it to the clinical lead , Professor Whitty and Professor Van - Tam , who run the math and verify it . we speak to the regulator and , despite this be novel , within nine day the information spot in a tweet by an american statistician become Government policy , announce here , and that be follow throughout the world . that alone be calculate to have save 10 , 000 life in the UK . there be many more staff I would like to thank , include my three agent in West Suffolk over the year : Dorothy Whittaker , Lance Stanbury and Bobby Bennett . and , like the former Defence Secretary , I also thank my family , in particular my child , because the impact of the scrutiny of politic , especially when people make mistake , have a huge impact on they , and they have put up with a lot . it be in the nature of politic that people do not see what a team effort it be . many people have say that today . what will I miss most ? the single unambiguous answer to that question be that I will miss colleague the most . in difficult time , the support of colleague , both on this and the other side of the House , have be incredibly powerful . I will also miss the opportunity to contribute to national debate . the single vote that I regret not have take part in be that on assist dying , which surely will come and which I have come to support very passionately . politic be also noisy and hard than it be 14 year ago , when I first come to Parliament . the nature of social medium have make it more difficult , and the nature of the world have , sadly , make it more dangerous . even through this , one of the thing that I have try to promote be the power of technology as a force for good . the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) and I have campaign on that together over the year . yes , we must ensure that technology be harness for the benefit of humanity , but by God , we must make sure that harness it we do . we can not stand in the way , and the UK be at its good when we be at the forefront and when we harness the power of modern technology . my prediction be that , over the next 14 year , the impact will be far great not just on the economy but on society and politic than it have be even over the past 14 year . we be live through the slow rate of change of our life . it be only go to get fast , and I hope that this place be ready for that . I can not finish without a word on the NHS and the role it play in our national life . when my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ask I to be Health Secretary she say , " we need to improve the tech in the health service . could you do that ? " for 18 month , I thoroughly enjoy myself try to improve the tech in the health service . then , of course , the pandemic strike . for one last time I want to say thank you to all of those who rise to the occasion and do so much to get we through , deliver the necessary safety measure , include the shielding programme , which be not mention as much as it should be , protect those who be most vulnerable . and , of course , the vaccine programme be without doubt one of the country ' s fine achievement in peacetime . I want to thank the colleague with whom I work incredibly closely and who help make that happen ; some of they be hero of the pandemic too . I leave by say this . I think it be impossible for a political party — those aspire to govern — to win without some of those lodestar . it be impossible and wrong to win without be on the side of the future and try to represent the youth of our country who be come through . they may see thing differently from how we do ; I say that even as a 45 - year - old . it be impossible to win or to deserve to win without a true love of the NHS . I be proud to serve a Prime Minister who be from an NHS family . that true love be important because the people believe it and it be true . finally , it be impossible to win unless we truly want to serve our country . I believe that everybody come into this place want to make their country a well place . I have try my hard to do that for 14 year — to reach out , to try to do thing differently and to try to embrace the future . it have be a honour and a privilege , and I thank you . thank you , Matt , and thank you NHS . it be a real privilege to speak in this debate and listen to all the reflective speech from right hon . and hon . member right across the House . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) . I do not know whether he recall the engagement we use to have when he be at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . I actually regret that he move on to the health portfolio because at the time we have have an important meeting about support for Gaelic broadcasting . he be generous in recognise the strength of the argument that I have put about increase that support . what happen ? he leave , and the moment be go . I can not help reflect on my engagement with another Government Minister , the right hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , when he be the Secretary of State responsible for agriculture . we be have some debate about support for scottish agriculture . it be a typical , feisty scottish debate . there be a lot of passion , and perhaps some surprise among the official in the room . but it end up with the right hon . Gentleman ask I to come with he to the Treasury to make the case . I think , " hang on ! you ' re the Government Minister — you ' re suppose to be do this . " but I be glad to say that in that case we be successful in get the convergence uplift money to scottish crofter and farmer . that be a good indication of when this House be at its good — when Members of Parliament across the House can come together and we can achieve decision for the benefit of our constituent . it be an honour and privilege for every Member to serve in this House , but for I there be something particular about represent a remote and rural constituency — the large in the United Kingdom : at 12 , 000 square kilometre , it be the same size as Northern Ireland . engage with constituent be so important . my one regret about the election come this early be that I have have to postpone my summer surgery tour . those who know the west highland — I can see smile around the Chamber — will be aware that that be a three - week tour , visit many island : 32 different place to hold constituency surgery . I spend yesterday unravel all my plan for that , and I wish my successor every success . my last constituency engagement be on Tuesday , when I be up in the Isle of Skye celebrate 50 year of the Gaelic college in the presence of the Duke of Edinburgh . I be glad to say that the college continue to flourish . but we all have the important role of represent our constituent . many other right hon . and hon . member have talk about the importance of come here to serve . we all do that because we believe in public service — we all believe that we be here to try to make our constituent ' live well . but of course we come from different political persuasion . in my and my party ' s case , although we respect this place and the job we be here to do , our aim be , as Winnie Ewing famously say , not to settle down but to settle up and make sure that we advance the cause of scottish independence . when we come out of this Chamber and pass through those door , we leave the argument behind , because in the end we be all here to do the same job of represent our constituent . member on the opposite Benches be not our enemy ; they be our colleague . we should remember the importance of have respectful debate and dialogue . like other member , I regret the polarisation we see in society and the toxicity of our social medium . each and every one of we , include those in the medium , have a responsibility to ensure that we show appropriate leadership and get to a well place . as be say early , young people need to feel encouraged to come into Parliament and politic and must not be put off . I be sad to say that many people today will question whether they want to serve . I be elect to the House in 2015 , make my maiden speech on 28 May 2015 . it be one of my short speech , at only 11 minute — though I will not attempt to detain the House too long this afternoon . I quote Donald Stewart , the first SNP Member of Parliament to be elect at a general election , who say : " if I stray into controversial matter , they will , in a sense , be impartial controversy , since as a Nationalist Member I shall be in controversy with both side of the House from time to time . for that reason , if I stray I hope that it will be less objectionable to the tradition of the House . " — [ Official Report , 2 December 1970 ; Vol . 807 , c . 1345 . ] I can remember give my maiden speech , and I have to say that , when the 56 SNP MPs arrive , we be make to feel very welcome by many colleague across the House , not least by the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , who I see be in his place up at the back . have give my maiden speech on the second day , and with the SNP have to respond early to every debate , we find very quickly that we be be ask to speak on subject I know little about . I will not say what the subject be , but I take some advice from the hon . member for Brigg and Goole when I ask he , " Andrew , what be I suppose to do ? " he say , " Ian , it ' s easy . just attack we . " that be the good advice I be give , and I hope I have be true to it over the last nine year , but in a constructive manner . the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , who be no long in her place , speak about never have vote against the whip advice . early in the 2015 Parliament , the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) move a ten - minute rule Bill and my hon . friend the Member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) say to I , " go into the Aye Lobby and I ' ll offer to tell for the hon . Lady . " I go through the Lobby only to find out that the whip advice have change and we be abstain , so I become the first SNP MP to rebel in that Parliament . I didn ' t keep it up , and I suppose I be give the whip advice for most of the period after that . let I come back to 2015 . when 56 SNP mp and only one Conservative MP , one Labour MP and one Liberal Democrat MP be elect in Scotland , it be almost a complete whitewash . that come several month after the scottish independence referendum in 2014 . it be worth gently and politely remind the House that we have just have the Smith Commission and be tell at that point that Scotland be to lead the UK and that it be a partnership of equal . I have to say , with regret , that that have not often prove to be case over the last few year . with respect to the result of the 2014 referendum , it be our right to continue to put the case for Scotland to be an independent country in election to Westminster and to the Scottish Parliament . I say to the House that that constitutional question have yet to be resolve . there be a fundamental question , give that this be a Union of equal , as to how Scotland be permit to leave that Union if it choose to do so . I make that point because in the election to the Scottish Parliament in 2021 , there be a majority of independence - supportive member . what mechanism be there — this will have to be address at some point — if the people of Scotland show through the election of member of Parliament here or elsewhere that they have a desire to achieve a different solution ? I accept that , for the SNP and those who believe in independence , we will win that argument only if we can win the economic argument by show that Scotland can , should and will be a prosperous country . we hear early from the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) about everything that be happen with green energy . we be face today by many challenge , but , my goodness , what an opportunity we have with the potential for wind , solar and tidal . that will become an opportunity for we only if we can command the supply chain and drive the investment we need into that industry . of course , that desire to achieve economic growth ought to be for a purpose , and that purpose be ensure that we can improve our public service . I say to Conservative Members respectfully that when we have that debate about the future — whether it be here or in Scotland — we need to have that engagement with everybody . let I quickly reflect on economic growth . it would be my contention that ever since the financial crisis in 2008 , we have struggle to create the circumstance of sustainable economic growth . indeed , this morning I be look at statistic show that growth in the US economy since the pandemic have be 8 . 9 % , but relative growth for the United Kingdom over the same period have be 1 . 7 % . now , we can discuss Budgets , financial statement and all the rest of it , as we do , but we need to have that debate about the fundamental . how do we up our game ? how do we drive up investment ? how do we drive up productivity ? all the pressure that we have , along with the talk about tax cut and the talk about investment in our public service , will be address only when we consider the fundamental of how we deliver sustainable economic growth in this country . we have , if I may say so , the disastrous premiership of the previous Prime Minister , which expose weakness in our mortgage market from we not have long - term fix mortgage , for example . we can talk about the fact that , yes , there be some encouraging sign with the economy , but when it come down to real people , we know that 5 million household have be expose to rise mortgage rate since the beginning of 2021 . analysis by the Bank of England show that , give where we be now — and even with , I hope , the prospect of some reduction in interest rate over the come period — another 5 million household will still be expose to rise interest rate over the come period . we can stop and think about what that mean — it mean that , on average , people be pay 40 % more for their mortgage than they be prior to the rise in interest rate . if I may , let I quickly reflect on what have happen over the course of the past nine year and , my goodness , the pace of change with Brexit , covid and , of course , the situation with Ukraine and now Gaza as well . I accept that , across the United Kingdom , people vote for Brexit . in Scotland we do not ; we wish to remain in the European Union . the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) talk about the three vote that she lose in this House . if I have one regret from all of that period , it be that as I think back to the 2015 to 2017 Parliament , or indeed the 2017 to 2019 Parliament , I would contend that in this House there be a majority for stay in the single market and the custom union . it be a pity that we do not come together across the House . yes , we could have allow the Brexit that people in the United Kingdom vote for . that do not mean that we have to come out of the single market and the custom union . I regret the economic self - harm that we have have as a consequence . I be glad about the progress that have be make this week on infected blood and on Horizon . my one regret be that we have not yet successfully deal with the WASPI woman . I know that will fall to the new Government , but I hope that , on a cross - party and consensual basis , we can recognise , accept and deliver justice , as we must , for the WASPI woman who face an increase in woman ' s pensionable age that simply be not communicate in the right manner . I see the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work on the Front Bench . I say respectfully that she will know that the other issue I want to see resolve be footballer with dementia . we think about the suffering that they and their family be go through . this need to be classify as an industrial injury , and I hope that in the next Parliament there be some closure on that issue . I will begin to wind up , Mr Deputy Speaker . for much of my time in this House , I have have the privilege of be not just the MP for Ross , Skye and Lochaber , but the SNP Westminster leader . I be grateful for the opportunity that I be give by colleague and , I have to say , for the relationship that I have across the House in that period . I have talk about the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) and his engagement with other , which be an example of the co - operation that need to happen when we face the situation that we do . indeed , we reiterate today that all of we will stand by our friend in Ukraine . we must see Russia push back and see liberty , freedom and security deliver to those people . I do regret that the House have not be able to come together to the same extent over Gaza , because we be all watch the humanitarian crisis that be take place there . I hope that we can show leadership on that issue , agree on the need to bring peace and security to the region , and recognise the importance of deliver a two - state solution so that both community can live together , and the responsibility on this House to show leadership to make sure we can get to that point . finally , let I thank the staff in the House of Commons , who work day in , day out to make we feel welcome and to support we — the security staff , the Doorkeepers and the catering staff — and also the Speaker and the Deputy Speakers , for the role they play and the courtesy they have always show I . I want to thank my constituency staff and the leadership staff that I have at Westminster . the job that we all have as politician , we only do because of the ability of those who tirelessly work in support of we all . leave this House be a bittersweet moment for all of we who be depart . I thank everyone for their co - operation , and for the argument that we have sometimes have as well . we should remember that all of we come here to serve . what a privilege it be for each and every one of we . I thank all the voter of Ross , Skye and Lochaber . it have be the privilege of my life . finally , I first come to this place in 1980 . I come with my partner , who be sit in the Under Gallery , so there be a sense of closure . have come here all those decade ago , today we will be leave . thank you for the opportunity to serve . thank you , Ian , and good luck to you both . as I be watch this debate , sit in this beautiful Chamber , I be think of my constituency of Harlow . not so long ago , I be campaign outside a Lidl supermarket , which I do regularly , hand out leaflet . one time — this be genuinely a true story — a lady come up to I and say that my leaflet have come through her letterbox that very morning . she say how handsome I look , but follow that up by say , " you look bloody awful in real life . " I tell that story not just because it be true , but because , however wonderful this place be and however incredible it be to be an MP , our constituent , especially in a place like Harlow , bring we back down to Earth with a bump . that be very good for we , because we go back to our constituency and do our community day every Friday and Saturday , and often on Sundays , and our constituent tell we what be go on . almost every Saturday , I go to a wonderful sandwich caf é serve incredible coffee in the centre of the town , and my goodness , the constituent in that caf é tell I what be what . they tell I what be really go on , whether it be someone whose child can not get special educational need support or somebody who can not get a house , or whatever it may be . I be drive through Harlow one day , and to my shock , I suddenly see my right hon . friend sit by the dual carriageway under a bloody great big sign read " Vote Halfon " . you could not miss he , and I think , " my God , there ' s someone who know how to campaign . " I thank my right hon . friend — my truly honourable Friend — for his intervention . it be true ; it be go to be a strange election . I have do six from 2001 onwards , include in 2005 when I lose by 97 vote , and at every single election I have stand by the roadside with a massive sign , usually " please cut fuel duty " , from 6 . 30 be to 9 am or from 4 pm to 7 pm , wave at all the car . one time , there be a van that use to pass every day , and they use to scream obscenity at I . they even bring an inflatable " up yours " sign to wave at I , and a few day before polling day , they throw a mild water bomb at I — just a balloon ; it be fine . on the last day , on polling day , with this have go on for almost six week , they get out of the van . I be think , " oh my goodness , what be they go to do to I ? " they slap I on the back and say , " good on you , mate . we ' re vote conservative . " as I have say , Parliament be an incredible place . an Essex MP come to my school , although I be bring up in north London , and say that the Houses of Parliament have over 1 , 000 room . I demand to go and see those 1 , 000 room — I have to see every single one of they — and I come here on a tour , but sadly I do not see all 1 , 000 room . to this very day , I still have not see all 1 , 000 room , but I decide on that day , at 10 year old , that I would be a Member of Parliament , because I think this Parliament be so beautiful . I think Central Lobby be so incredible . I love history , and every single one of we in Parliament be part of live history . I want to be in Parliament for another reason . although I very rarely talk about it , because I do not want to be know as a disabled MP , when I be a child I could not walk . I use to walk on tiptoe — perhaps I should have go into ballet at Covent Garden — and I be tell that I would never be able to walk . I be tell that I should go to a special school ; the doctor write to my father say so , and I remember see the letter , even at a young age . then my father find this incredible professor at Great Ormond Street Hospital who understand what be go on , and I have operation throughout my childhood , right through to adult life . what be be an MP about ? it be about give public service , look after your constituent and serve the public . Professor Lloyd - Roberts at Great Ormond Street Hospital , the person who start it off , be the man who change my life , and I feel that be an MP be my chance to help change other people ' s live for the well . I should say that I be in another hospital and then move to a nursing home , and none other than Nadine Dorries , the former MP for Mid Bedfordshire , be a nurse while I be in that hospital — so she tell I , and I think I sort of remember it . she be perhaps the only MP who have see I in my birthday suit — less " the Plot " , more the pot , as it might be . as an MP , you do thing for your constituency and you also champion cause , and as my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) say , you sometimes have a chance to govern . when I come in , I want to do three thing : the first be to build an even well Harlow , and the second be to champion the cost of living . we think a lot about the cost of live now , but the cost of live in constituency such as mine have always be tough . I have constituent where often , one partner work in the day and the other work in the evening , and people say to I , " we work for 48 hour and still find it hard to keep our head above water . " I start the fuel duty campaign because my local McDonald ' s have start charge for parking if people stay beyond a certain time . I ask the franchise owner why he be do this , and he say , " People be park overnight because they can ' t afford to drive back home . " People be park overnight and sleep in their car because they could not afford the cost of fuel , which I realise be the central issue . it be also why , as a Conservative , I campaign for the living wage . I be proud to attend Cabinet when George Osborne , the then Chancellor , announce it . I be also proud to be George Osborne ' s parliamentary private Secretary . pps be usually know as " bag carrier " but , because of my leg , the Chancellor sometimes help I to carry my briefcase , so I think I be the first PPS in history whose bag be carry by the Secretary of State , rather than the other way around . the other most important issue to I have be championing apprenticeship and skill . way back in 2008 , when I be a parliamentary candidate , I go into a building in my constituency and meet some young kid who be be look after by the Prince ' s Trust , which be an amazing organisation that I love with every fibre of my body , and Catch22 . they talk about apprenticeship , and about want to do skill , but there be no offering for they . these kid be from very disadvantaged background , and I say to myself on that day that , if I be elect to Parliament , I would champion apprenticeship and skill . my first speech in the House of Commons be about try to get more school to encourage their child , pupil and student to do apprenticeship , as well as go to university , by transform career advice in our school so that people understand the apprenticeship offering . I be very proud of what this Government have do . we often talk about success in education and reading , but I be very proud of what this Government have do on skill . I believe that history will show huge apprenticeship reform . People can now do an apprenticeship in everything from aeronautic to zoology . degree apprenticeship be introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , and there have now be more than 200 , 000 degree apprentice . People can take one in every subject , and they be now regard with prestige . our t - level be prestigious vocational qualification . we have more than 20 institute of technology teach prestigious tertiary education . I love Harlow College , which I have visit more than 110 time since become a Member of Parliament , because the college , the staff and student have teach I everything I know . they help I along the way when I be championing apprentice . I be twice the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and , latterly , Higher Education , for which I be hugely grateful to the Prime Minister . it be a huge moment for I , because Select Committee Chairs and Back Benchers can campaign , and I get apprenticeship for prisoner and more career advice for student in school through , but Ministers can make policy . it be an incredible honour to be able to do that , and some of our reform over the past couple of year , such as the lifelong learning entitlement , which will revolutionise adult learning , the improved apprenticeship levy and the £ 2 . 7 billion be spend on apprenticeship by 2025 will make a huge difference . we stand up and get the credit for all these thing , but I could not have do one thing without — without — will my right hon . friend give way ? I will in a second . I could not have do one thing without the incredible staff here . they be the people who work for long hour . they look after we , they be loyal , they do the hard work , they do the research , and they help to prepare the speech . I want to name a few who have be with I over the year . some have go , but I hope the House will forgive I if I name they all , because these people really have be incredible . they be Ann Russell - Day , Paul Abbott , Victoria Thornton , Janet Ballard and Melanie Torino — watch from above in the Gallery today — Maria Bellissimo , Hannah Ellis , Holly Papworth , Ethan Harries — watch from above — Natalie Dilworth , Anna Taylor — watch from above — Alex Griffiths , Simon Carter — who start I off , as my agent — Dan Swords , leader of Harlow Council , the young ever leader of any council in political history , and a former apprentice in my office — Emily Burditt , Clive Russell - Day , Aaron Farrell , and Howard Cox of FairFuelUK . there be also , of course , my wife Vanda , who be watch , and who have stand with I through thick and thin . I will take an intervention now . only if you need it . I always love intervention from my hon . friend . I must also thank the wonderful resident of Harlow . they be tough . they want their Member of Parliament to work hard to champion and fight for Harlow , and they expect the good from their MP . I have work hard to help regenerate our town , and some wonderful thing have be happen . I want to give particular thank to the editor of our local newspaper , Michael Casey , who be a very special individual . we use to have three newspaper in our town , which be free and go to every home . this man set up an internet newspaper that now receive literally million of hit . he give I a hard time , which be his right , but if it be not for he we would have no news in Harlow . I do not need to suck up to you any more , Mr Deputy Speaker , because I be not stand again , but you have be a wonderful person to I , as have all the other Deputy Speakers . I be a huge fan of Mr Speaker as well , and I hope he remain in place for many year to come . he have show I nothing but kindness . I especially want to thank the Doorkeepers , one of whom be sit in the Chamber . I hope he will not mind my mention he , but he know I when I be a researcher . every single one of the Doorkeepers be extraordinary and decent , and I be enormously grateful to they all . I should also mention the staff of the Tea Room . I love the Tea Room : I call it the lorry driver ' caff for mps . its staff have help I every single day , and I love every one of they . let I end with just three ask . first , as I will not be here any more to make a nuisance of myself on fuel duty , I ask now that , whichever party be in government in the future , we continue freeze fuel duty and to cut it . let we remember that the Prime Minister cut it by 5p when he be Chancellor . secondly , I ask that we continue , as a House , to champion apprenticeship and skill . I be the first MP to employ full - time parliamentary apprentice in my office , and I hope that one day the Speaker will set up a scheme , additional to the intern scheme , to put more apprentice in mps ' office and not just in the civil service of the House , however brilliant that be . as I have say , I never talk much about my leg , but I be go now , and I be very lucky to have benefit from , for instance , the kind officer and Doorkeepers in the world — as well as the Segway . I have run over a few member ' toe with it , from those of my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) to those of a former MP for Milton Keynes and a few other in between . everyone have be very kind . it will not be the same not to be scoot through here and ask everyone to put their leg up , especially the lady . however , this be a terrible place for people who have difficulty . the lavatory be never work , the lift be never work , and the door be always shut . there be just not enough understanding . it be not about produce a press release say , " we ' re an inclusive and diverse employer . " that mean nothing . I have have great chat in the last few day with brilliant House of Commons staff — as I have say , every single member of staff be brilliant — but there have to be change . everybody should be able to access this place easily and comfortably , whatever their background , so I urge the new Parliament , you , Mr Deputy Speaker , Mr Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers to make that happen once and for all . finally , I pay tribute to the wonderful party that I join at 15 year old . it be a family — a dysfunctional family , but a family nevertheless . I feel as though I be leave home . it be a wonderful honour to have be a member of the conservative party ; I will still be a member and will help as much as I can . let we go out there and be a compassionate conservative party that put social justice and help the disadvantaged at its heart . let we not sound too angry , which we can do from time to time . let we go out and support the Prime Minister , and let we try to win this general election . I have come to my last word . when I resign , I quote J . r . r . Tolkien , whom I love . I be look forward to the Tolkien Society ' s annual Oxonmoot later this year . those who know " Lord of the Rings " will know that when gandalf take the hobbit back to the Shire after they have all conquer the ring , he say that he be not go with they : " I be with you at present … but soon I shall not be . I be not come to the Shire … my time be over : it be no long my task to set thing to right , nor to help folk to do so . and as for you , my dear friend , you will need no help … among the great you be , and I have no long any fear at all for any of you . " I be more Bilbo than Gandalf , because I be small , I have fat foot , I do like a smoke and I love the countryside . for I , although I will not be in Parliament , as Bilbo say : " the Road go ever on " . hear , hear ! thank you , Robert . we will miss you . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , who have be a tireless and unflinche worker for motorist , as I know . I be glad that , in his valedictory speech , he give a nod to the legendary Howard Cox , who have be a friend to I over the last two difficult year . I do not follow the advice that the right hon . Gentleman offer to candidate about stand by the side of the road with a sandwich board , but I do get in a cab and ask lot of question . I put on record my thank to my constituent , who have be a source of comfort , support and enlightenment over the past nine year . I also thank my wonderful staff , past and present , who have be unstinting in their support , but who have be well and truly put through the mill — more on that later . the good thing about be an MP be the interaction with constituent . it have be a privilege to represent the wonderful community of Solihull and Shirley . privilege seem such an inadequate word , but it be the only one we have , and I truly feel it . my chief win include secure a £ 60 million investment in the local hospital , get a fair deal for our superb school that do so much with so little , and fight the outrageous plan to strip the borough of police service . in Parliament , it be a huge honour to be the Chair of the Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee from 2020 to 2023 . the Committee make a real contribution , particularly post pandemic , in help the industry and on head injury in sport . until December 2022 , I would have encourage anyone to become a Member of Parliament . sadly , I would not do so now , due to the toxicity of the work environment . be assure at this juncture , Mr Deputy Speaker , that I will be careful , as a wide - range criminal investigation into conspiracy to pervert the course of justice , fraud , and forgery involve multiple individual , be ongoing . against all precedent , I be name in December 2022 in connection with an allegation by the conservative party . why be I name when multiple member who have actually be arrest be not ? a special case be make for I . I believe that that be for the follow reason . first , there be the pressure from hon . member about my work to combat racism at Yorkshire county cricket club . it be no coincidence that this occur three day prior to Mr Rafiq give evidence once again to the Committee . he testify to exactly the same dirtying of his name that I have face over the past two year . it be exactly the same modus operandi . secondly , I lack friend in high place . I play a major role in the current Prime Minister ' s failure to win the leadership . in addition , I make two complaint to two different Chief Whips about drunken bullying and harassment by a Government Whip . all I want be an apology and for it to stop . that bullying be witness by an independent female friend , who have supply an affidavit that be currently with the police in order for they to take action . what be more , I blow the whistle on two occasion about the Islamophobia and racism that I have see in my party , and nothing be do . in fact , one of the culprit be stand at the next election . finally , I think those in the party want to make an example of I . they have have their finger burn over the issue relate to Mr Pincher , and the new Prime Minister want to be see to be get tough , regardless of the fact that I have tell the Whips Office about the allegation back in February , and keep they inform throughout the time until my suspension . when I be clear by the Met police without an interview , I become aware of a horrendous campaign of lie emanate from certain people within my own party . a boycott of my Select Committee be arrange , and I feel compel to resign . friend be pressure to drop their association with I . there be an allegation on the Byline Times website that an investigation that have be close by the Met be move to Essex at the behest of Government Ministers . that be utterly unprecedented . I think that my be clear by the police so soon after the Government have take the unprecedented step of name I publicly be deem a serious political embarrassment . the vulture be already circle around my seat , and hon . member know exactly who they be . let I briefly outline the effect that this have have . I think of myself as a real conservative , and I have be drive from my party — I be sit on the Opposition Benches rather than the Government Benches . I have contemplate suicide on multiple occasion . every night , I wake at 3 am — every night . I have lose my position and my future . my family have be place under unbearable toll and misery . we be ordinary people : I drive to my selection night in a Skoda Fabia ; I do not take a helicopter . staff , both past and present , have be make ill by the barrage of innuendo contain in a malicious dossier and by relentless press harassment . hon . member , we must be very careful for our future . I be actually irrelevant in this — I will go off somewhere else — but if what have happen to I be allow to pass , it will happen again , and it could change the course of this country ' s history . an hon . member could be remove from a hung Parliament by unfounded accusation and disgusting rumour — just imagine what that would have do in 2019 . now I will retire to private life , relieve but sadden . I hope that one day we will see a real conservative party again — a party that do not tax until the pip squeak , that believe in liberty and a small state , that do not hang innocent man out to dry . the last 14 year will , I be really sad to say , prove to have be a bit of a waste . our legacy will be a Labour Government with bankrupt idea and uninspire leadership . only true conservatism have the answer that this country need , and my only hope be that the crucible of this election will lead to a rebirth of real free - market conservatism . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . thank you very much . I call Colonel Bob Stewart . hear , hear ! I be very sorry to have to follow such a speech , and I feel sympathy . it have be a real privilege for I to be here . fourteen year have go like a flash . in my 28 year in the Army , I never think for a moment that I would come to this place . after all , most of the rank and file in the Army view politician with deep suspicion . when , a few year after I have leave the Army , I tell my Army colleague that I be try to be a Conservative MP , they accuse I of have smoke dope . in truth , for 14 year I have feel that I have still be in metaphorical uniform . all of we be in metaphorical uniform , because every single member of this place serve their country . they may not wear a uniform but , my goodness , they could easily do so . I have never seek advancement ; I like the Back Benches . I never want advancement . I tell this to David Cameron when he be Prime Minister , and he say , " you win ' t get it either . " I have make my share of mistake in this place . [ hon . member : " no ! " ] I will mention one malapropism . I once intervene on my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) and stand up to say , " I would like to thank my hon . friend , " but what I actually say be , " I would like to spank my hon . friend " . I then correct the mistake . Hansard very kindly suggest that they could amend their transcript , but I say , " by no mean do that . it ' s far too good . " if they remember I for anything , it be for spank the hon . member for Tewkesbury . may I end by thank colleague for put up with I ? [ hon . member : " no ! " ] I have make some pretty decent friend , consider they be not in the Army . I like the staff . I particularly like the Doorkeepers , many of whom be ex - military . I thank my office staff , particularly Dr Reza Tabrizi and Neil Cropper . I also thank my wife , Claire Podbielski , for put up with I for 30 year so far . after all , she have give we four child . [ interruption . ] I think that should stand , whatever it be — I be sure it be very rude . I would like to thank my wife for bear four child : Julie , Delphine , oph é lie and Xavier . I have to say that at least two of they be inn the military . Hooray ! old soldier be not mean to die . apparently , they just fade away . well , to hell with that — I do not want to fade too quickly . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . thank you , Colonel Bob . you have be a true and absolute friend ever since I have know you , and you go beyond in help I in my great time of need . I love you , Bob . it be a pleasure to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker , but it be not without a sad heart . when I be think about what to say , I think , " should it be a thank you ? " we be send here by our constituent ; in my case , they have send I three time , for which I be inordinately grateful , but the great privilege be that they have let I into their life , to help they . as my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) say , we should always remember that we come here to serve . we should serve with courtesy and with a smile , and ensure we be always second in the queue to our constituent . I have have the most enormous amount of fun , whether in my constituency or in this place . I find it very difficult to run through my list of thank yous , but my first thank you be to my team , particularly to Lesley . Lesley start walk the street with I — no comment , please ; I be sorry for the turn of phrase , Lesley — when I be select as a candidate back in 2014 . she be still in my office , run it and be a star . support she now be Wendy , Laura and the wonderful Helyn , who previously work next door for my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) . Lesley have serve this place for 42 year . it be people like she , and Carolyn , who come before , and Harry , who I thank . it be they , as staff , who do the lion ' s share of care for our constituent , week to week . I place on record , as many other have do , my thank to the Doorkeepers , who be the glue who stick we all together . as they hug I this morning and yesterday , their gold emblem jangle — [ Laughter . ] come on , lady and gentleman ! they be the Crown jewel . where be this go ? it ' s not go anywhere . they be the glue , as be those in the Tea Room — I will be sad never again to have that special cup of coffee , with the little heart on top , pour by Godfrey ; those who ensure our committee be ready and our Select Committees be do the important job of hold we to account ; and the Clerks , who will answer any question of process . I give my thank to they . if it be not for they , we could not uphold democracy ; we do that and we do it well . we work across the House as people who come here to serve . when we lose the ability to do that courteously and kindly , and to work for the betterment of each and every person in this country , we be all loser , so long may that work continue . after the glue , I want to thank all those who have serve I in my private office or in the civil service . I have the privilege of be ask to go to the Whips Office . there be many former and current whip in the Chamber . the comptroller of his Majesty ' s Household , my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , be in my view a star among we . she make sure this Chamber run . she will sit in the early morning and have her breakfast , which be often a piece of brie or gorgonzola that she pick up from Marks & Spencer on her way in . you be never quite sure if it be your foot , or if she be have her breakfast . she be an institution . long may the people of Castle Point return our special star . to the Deputy Chief Whip , my right hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Mr Jones ) , and to other , I say thank you . thank you for never disclose that I probably have one of the bawdy sense of humour in this place . near or far — if anyone remember — we serve . although the Whips Office perhaps be not always speak about in the good of term , we care . those of we there care very deeply about ensure that our colleague in this place be look after . it be not only about the vote ; it be about make sure that , in one of the tough job that we be call to do — because other be right that it be a vocation — we be support . we support those in our " family " , and also look across the House to help other where we can . to the Whips Office , in which I be a retread , I say : thank you very much . it be truly the honour of my life to serve in the Royal Household , to be at the King ' s coronation with my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point and my right hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton , and to walk in front of the coffin of her late , beloved Majesty . I go from the Whips Office to the Department of Health and Social Care , and a pandemic occur . in many way , our fine and our good come to the fore . we should never forget that . it take a toll on our country and our finance , but we show ourselves at our good : agile , committed , caring and inventive , as my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , under whom I serve , say . the vaccine , develop by the fine mind that we have run our business and employ our people , do we proud . serve alongside the chief medical officer and the two deputy , the chief dental officer and other be another privilege of be in this place . take the gene edit Bill through Parliament when I be in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be a Brexit bonus to I , and hopefully it will serve as a lasting legacy to farming . it be not the way I would have choose , but it be the way we be walk , and you be well off find sunshine when you walk than always see rain when you look upwards . I come here as a cancer campaigner , have have it three time . life be a joy . to represent be a joy . I will leave this place as Employment Minister , do something that I think be incredibly special and very conservative : make sure people have job . if we be about anything , it be make work for people and give people dignity . with dignity , people can make choice , and with choice they can thrive . that bring I on to the final bit . our job mean that we can look after our family , and for I , my family be everything . I would not be here if my husband have not say to I , " be happy and work for your constituent ; I will support you all the way . " many have speak about the toll take on family ; for my family , it have be no different , so I be go to enjoy they — the whole noisy , bawdy bunch of they — because they be the very good thing in my life . I leave here with a heavy heart because I adore this place . we be lucky . I adore many of you . I think we be a fantastic party . to be one of the blue be to be on the good team , in my view , and I will carry on fighting for the blue , because this country need compassion , hard work , and people who believe that we be the good to represent they . I have represent the very good of this country in Bury St Edmunds , and I will miss you all . serve our country well , because it truly be the good . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . and thank you , Jo . I give you a hug last night ; I be sorry there be nothing jangle ! if hug pay , I would be very rich . the last couple of day have be wonderful . to all those constituent who have write to I , thank you . I welcome this opportunity to put on record my heartfelt thank to all those with whom I have work during my time as a Member of Parliament for Reading West . I be enormously grateful to my constituent for put their faith in I through four successive general election , and over the past 14 year as an MP — and indeed , during the four year prior to that , when I be a parliamentary candidate . I have have the great joy of work with so many brilliant people and organisation across read . together , we campaign successfully to set up one of the first free school in the country , the All Saints Junior School , which be still rate outstanding . we found a new secondary school , the Wren School . we win funding for upgrade for local train station at Theale and Tilehurst , and money for a new station in Green Park . we get the money for and ensure the construction of flood - alleviation scheme in Tilehurst and Purley . we secure a vital road crossing upgrade on Dee Road in the vicinity of several primary school . we keep Pincents hill green . we campaign successfully together for strong sentence for dangerous driving , and to strengthen legislation to deal with illegal encampment . we get the no . 33 bus redirect from the Birds estate . I could go on , and every colleague here will have a similar and probably long list , but the one thing that I hope we will all agree on be that without the strength , energy and commitment of our constituent , none of what we do locally would be possible . I therefore thank each and every one of my constituent from the bottom of my heart . it have be a real privilege to serve in government in a whole range of role and Departments . I come into the role of Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Secretary as the covid pandemic come upon we . I want to thank everyone , in the Government system and outside , who play such vital and important role in make sure that we get support to million of business and support job up and down our country . as my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) say , we should be proud of what we do as a Government during the covid pandemic . my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) be not in his seat , but he talk about vaccine . the vaccine taskforce sit within the Business Department , and we work collaboratively across Government . if ever there be a beacon for how a national mission should be deploy , it would be the vaccine taskforce . like my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds , I place on record my grateful thank to all the scientist , the folk in industry , the NHS , and the civil servant who work so hard to ensure that our country be the first in the world to deploy a vaccine . the last of the role that I do in government be on COP26 . I have be tell by very many people internationally , include those in foreign governance , that COP26 be one of the big soft power win for the UK in decade . we lead the world on the green agenda , and that would not have be possible without the tireless work of so many of our brilliant civil servant , many of they unsung hero , and , of course , the UK ' s outstanding diplomat across the world . when I work on COP , I genuinely feel that I stand on the shoulder of giant . we have for many year enjoy a strong political consensus on the need to reach net zero in our economy . I believe — and I know that many friend here believe it , too — that we be strong for it . I very much hope that that consensus be maintain in the critical decade ahead , because I can tell you that the world want our country to continue to lead on the green agenda , and I hope that we will . I also thank my friend in the Reading West Conservative Association , who first put their faith in I when they select I in 2006 . as all other colleague have do , I thank my brilliant parliamentary staff from over the year . it be always invidious to name colleague and pick they out , but I particularly want to place on the record my thank to Jessica Inns , who have patiently work with I for many more year than I think she would care to remember , and to Will Saunders and Rachel Quinn , who will continue to work right to the last day for the constituent of Reading West . I know that all their mum and dad will be thrill that they be get a mention in Hansard . I also thank my family : my wonderful mum and dad , my fabulous wife Ingela , and my brilliant daughter Isabella and Charlotta . as we all know , we could not do this without their support . serve as a Member of Parliament be a rare privilege , and I will always carry a piece of this place in my heart . I suspect that this will be one of the most emotional speech I have ever make in Parliament , so I apologise now for any snotty , ugly crying that may follow . I have hope to hold it together , but give that I be follow my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , it be just not go to happen . I be the 305th woman to be elect to the House of Commons , in 2010 . I would like to thank very much the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , for be pioneer to people like I enter this place . I do not come from an ordinary political background . my parent be not interested in politic and I do not go to private school . come here be very much beyond what I think be my reach , but it be because of the work that those woman do to encourage woman like I and other , include friend sit around I , that we be here and I be able to make what will be my final speech in this place after 14 year . I keep remind myself that I have take this decision to leave , and for what I think be all the right reason . everyone ' s cancer journey be different , but for I , my breast cancer be life - affirming . it have give I a renew sense of the vulnerability and fragility of our short life , and with the big five - oh on the horizon , this election be the opportunity to seek a new adventure . I do not know what that be yet , but I guess that be part of the excitement . clear out the office have be a wonderful way of remind I and my team — more about they later — of some of the incredible thing that we have do . I find a newspaper cut from 2010 . shortly after I get elect , I intervene to secure a wheelchair for a young boy who have face month of delay in get one , and be therefore housebound . the cutting have a picture of he in his chair , which have image of spider on it . he look so happy . that be a reminder that while 99 % of what we do never get into the public domain , it be important and , for some , life - change . Mr Deputy Speaker , stop cry ; you will set we all off . I be not a particularly sentimental hoarder of thing , so perhaps I do not have as much pack up in the loft as colleague , but it have be fun to find old election leaflet — goodness , I look so young in 2010 — letter from Prime Ministers , plural , and colleague past and present . it be good to read again some of my big speech that the office get bind for I , such as the most terrifying proposal to move the Loyal Address and my ten - minute rule Bill to protect youngster from abusive sport coach , and it be nice to flick through ministerial document such as the sport strategy and the review that cut the stake for fix - odd bet terminal , something I shall remain incredibly proud of , even if I be a thorn in the side of my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead by resign from her Government . it be easy to forget in the chaos of any day ' s inbox how much we actually do in this place . it be also easy to forget how often we work across party line . I find in my pile of stuff the Christmas card Paul Goggins send I 10 day before he die , inside the order of service for his funeral . Paul and I work on the issue of mesothelioma together . I come in during the recess after he die to add my name to all his amendment to the Mesothelioma Bill so I could move they for he , and then push two or three to a vote . I work with the hon . member for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) on loneliness have meet she before she come to Parliament at a reception with her parent to honour her sister Jo , whose plaque have always be in my eyeline . I have work cross - party on countless sport - relate issue as well as play in many cross - party sport team , include netball , cricket , rugby and of course football . I take home treasured medal , include the Guinness world record medal that I and the woman ' s football team secure , trophy , such as the much - covet pancake race trophy , and various politician , parliamentarian and campaigner of the year award , which will all thrill my husband as he seek to carry the weighty one up the ladder into the loft . but everything we do here be only because of the trust that our constituent have give we and it be beyond word how honoured I feel to have be elect four time to serve the people of Chatham and Aylesford . I can not begin to describe how lovely the vast majority have be to I over many year . I be not some fancy - pant posh tory to they — just Trace , the girl who go and stand on the terrace of Chatham Town football club , or politely tell the ref how he may have make the wrong call at Aylesford Bulls . I get ided in my local supermarket at the age of 42 because I be wear a hoodie and tracksuit bottom and the new young worker do not know who I be , much to my delight but to the abject horror of the supervisor . however , during my time as their MP , I have see much change in the constituency . there have be enormous housing development that have not only alter the rural landscape forever but put incredible and unforgiving pressure on our infrastructure , which in turn bring an immense amount of casework . this be where I turn in my speech to thank my team . in 14 year , I have only have 14 member on my payroll . two of my team have work for I in that entire time and I be truly indebted . Theo be with I on my campaign in 2010 and I offer he the job when I step off the platform . we recruit Sarah - Jane shortly after , who be the most brilliant caseworker . they often know what I think before I have think it myself . Theo know from the way I type whether I be send back a strongly word email . from the way I hit the " enter " key , he know whether to dive straight into the send item to see if he need to batten down the hatch . SJ know how much I hate injustice and will fight the authority to the end on behalf of resident . give that they have be in my life long than my husband , I shall miss they enormously . current team member will , Harry and Nicci have be amazing support , despite my decision to stand down impact they , and Nicci in particular have be amazing in that she organise all my constituency event , such as the over - 55 fair , the apprenticeship fair and community hero , the output of which mean I have meet ten of thousand of constituent in person in positive , inspire environment . I be so proud of the previous member of my team who have go on to incredible job both inside and outside Parliament . I have try not to think of any of they as staff ; I think of they as a valuable part of who I be and what I do . I have respect their contribution to my work on behalf of local resident and try hard never to let people think that I do it all alone . in the spirit of not do everything alone , will my hon . friend confirm whether it be member of her team , or perhaps unnamed colleague , who support she in put a row of question mark behind the Leader of the Opposition ' s seat on the Benches a few week ago , or in decorate other colleague ' office with certain item ? I be not sure what my right hon . friend be refer to . nor would I ever , ever , Mr Deputy Speaker , on reshuffle day , call my most ambitious colleague pretend to be Downing street . I wouldn ' t have do that at all . I thank all the people here who make Parliament work : the cleaner , the postie , the wonderful catering staff — we have already hear about the Tea Room . I particularly thank Godfrey , the absolutely wonderful young man who bring in some ghanaian honey especially so that I could make honey and lemon , and allow I to smuggle in my son during the October half - term when we be not on recess and cook some sausage and bean . I also pay tribute to the late Julia , who , when I be pregnant refuse to let I have egg from the hotplate — sorry to anyone who eat egg from the hotplate . I pay tribute to the Clerks , Hansard and the Doorkeepers ; I see the Principal Doorkeeper stand in his place . he once catch I on a school day , shall we say , have a drink in a pub in Maidstone . my only defence be that he be also there . John , who be stand next to he , be in this place when I first start in 1996 , as be some of the security staff , include Geo and Michael — or " Sticky " , as he be know . I promise I would make reference to Tweedledee and Tweedledum , the two Doorkeepers behind the Speaker ' s Chair . they be always quick with a sweet or glass of water , a chirpy smile and some crack about South Africa win something at rugby . like my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds , I get some good hug in with many of the staff yesterday . I be so grateful for their support ; they have look after we incredibly well . finally , I thank my family and friend . I particularly thank my husband Steve , who have support every decision that I have take in this place . he be very proud of I and know how to use the washing machine well than I do . he be also exceptionally keen for I to get another job as quickly as possible so that I do not get under his foot . at eight , my son Freddie do not really understand — he sort of get it , he sort of doesn ' t . but he be very much look forward to my be at home a lot more often — at least he say that until he realise the regime of homework that I will be impose upon he . ultimately , I be look forward to have the summer off and spend some time with they both . I make the choice to go , but I do not expect it to be so soon . I still have thing to do — law to pass , issue to raise and casework to finish . but ultimately , it have be a pleasure . I have know my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) since he be a young student work at McDonald ' s . I teach he how to make a Big Mac — he be go on to big and well thing in management at McDonald ' s . I wish my hon . friend who be stand a safe election , and I wish everyone , those who be stand and those who be not , the good of luck for the future , whatever or wherever that may be . thank you , Tracey — I love you . I think we have well hear from your mate , Andy Percy . it be a pleasure to have you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . you have be a friend , an ally and a support since I first come here , so thank you . it be honestly a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) . we have work together three time . when I be 16 , I be work at McDonald ' s in St Andrew ' s Quay in Hull and she be my floor manager . she be much more senior than I : she have a white shirt and she be the one who tell I , if I remember , what to do with my pickle and where to place they . we then work together for our right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for a period , so this be now our third time work together . I can also confirm she have already offer I a job wash her window , which I might well do . it have be a real privilege . in the run - up to the 2010 general election , my hon . friend and I use to have a thing every Saturday where , if a song from " dirty dancing " come on , and especially one particular song — I be sure she remember which — we would ring each other up and sing it down the phone at one another . or , if I miss she , I would pick up my voicemail to have Tracey Crouch singe " Hungry Eyes " or " she ' s like the Wind " down the phone . I really wish she all the good . she have be incredibly brave these last few year , and I love she to bit . when I speak at the boundary commission review to argue in favour of the abolition of my constituency , I say that it be the close I could get to speak at my own funeral . that be how I open , yet today also feel a bit like that , because as I look at my name on the Annunciator , it will be the last time I speak and the last time that we see " Brigg and Goole " , because Briggand Goole be be abolish at this election and split four way . today also mark the end of 24 year in elect office for I — I be expect howl of disbelief at the idea that that could be true of someone with such good skin and who look so young . over those 24 year , I do 10 year in East Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire , 10 as one of two Tory councillor on Hull City Council — there be now none of we — a period as a parish councillor in my village of Airmyn , and of course 14 year here . I thank all the people who vote for I for those various position locally : the elector of Newland and Bricknell ward in Hull , who give this working - class lad from the bad comprehensive , in the worst - perform education authority in the country , his first opportunity in elect office ; and then , of course , the absolutely wonderful people of Brigg and Goole , and the Isle of Axholme , who return I last time with 71 % of the vote . I will be forever thankful . it be genuinely the privilege of my life to have serve they here . I also want to thank the conservative party . I start leaflete for the Conservative party when I be 11 , in part thank to a lady who have long since depart , Mrs Stonehouse , who at that point be in her 70 or early 80 . I be the local paperboy , and I start deliver leaflet . the conservative party be a family . it be a thoroughly dysfunctional family , and there be time when I do not want to spend another moment with those member of my family , but then , at the end of the day , I remember that we be all family , and I love they dearly — some more than other . I want to thank Mr Speaker in particular — and of course you , Mr Deputy Speaker ; he be not here and I have already thank you , so it be not one over the other — for his support over these year , and also all the House staff , include the Doorkeepers and everybody who do everything to keep we and this place function . obviously I thank the Tea Room staff , but I also thank Anthony and Richard in the Strangers ' Bar , who be thoroughly wonderful people . I also thank many different colleague . there be so many I have make friend with over the year , some whom have go : Guto Bebb , who be my great pal in this place over those first couple of term ; James Wharton , who be now Baron Wharton ; and my former flatmate , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) and my hon . friend the Member for North Swindon ( Justin Tomlinson ) , who I live with in that first term . I also thank my new colleague since the 2019 election , who have be particularly fun to be with , include my hon . friend the Members for Burnley ( Antony Higginbotham ) and for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , my wonderful constituency neighbour , who in her maiden speech describe I as like a father figure to she . I can reveal today that we be very much family — if anyone come after this one , I be come after they — but it be not a case of father and daughter ; it be brother and sister , and she will forever be my eld sister . [ Laughter . ] as I look around , I see so many great colleague and friend who I be so proud to have serve with . although he be not here , I will pick out my chum and mate the Chief Whip , my right hon . friend the Member for Carmarthen West and South Pembrokeshire ( Simon Hart ) . when we all get here in 2010 , we use to hang out in James Wharton ' s tiny office — my right hon . friend the Member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) would be there — and we have such fun . we know why we be here , we be all part of a team and we know where we be head . it be the good of time for I . I also want to thank David Cameron for give I this opportunity . I be put on the a - list . when I come here , lot of people who do not like the a - list use to come up to I and say how terrible it be with all these a - lister — they would look at I , listen to I , hear my accent and think , " he couldn ' t possibly have be on the a - list . " — but be on the a - list allow I to stand in my local constituency . however , I do text he this week say , " I be sorry that I end up be a disappointment , " because I do vote against the Whip 80 time in that first Parliament . when he once pull I up for it , though , I do point out that that mean I vote with the Conservative Whip 90 % of the time , which be a lot well than the Labour MP I have replace . I also want to thank my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who give I the honour of be a Minister in the Department for Communities and Local Government , as well as our current Prime Minister , who I think be a thoroughly decent human being . of course , I want to thank my family and all my friend , my mum and dad and my grandparent , who be not with we any more . I thank in particular my parent , who do not need degree and family money to give I the value that I believe I have exhibit in this Chamber . there be lot of other people I want to thank — so many friend over the year . I thank my constituency neighbour : my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden , and of course my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe . I be proud to have serve as a Minister , but I be most proud of have serve as our trade envoy to Canada , a country that I have have a lifelong love affair with . [ interruption . ] there be a drinking game go on over how many time I can say Canada . I want to thank two people who support I in that role in particular : our two consul general , Kevin McGurgan and Nicole Davison , and her wonderful partner Karen Ferguson . I also thank all the high commission team and all the people in the high commission in Canada who help . I be conscious of time . I be come to my staff — a couple of they be here — but I be keep they till last because I say that I be really go to spill the bean on they . it have be the privilege of my life to serve the people of East Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire . we be the good of this country . we tell people what we think and we like what we say . we be blunt and we be clear , and we be concise about it . I be proud locally to have help deliver on some of the thing that I hope have make life a little bit well . that include cut the Humber bridge toll . my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) do a lot on that , but you would not know that by the time it get into my literature — I have completely and utterly write he out of it . I be proud to have bring the Dolly Parton ' s Imagination Library to my area — we will shortly be deliver the millionth book from that scheme — which have have a real impact on our pre - school literacy rate . I also set up a first - responder scheme and have spend 12 year at weekend volunteer in the NHS with Yorkshire Ambulance Service . this past Saturday I be out at 1 o ' clock in the morning respond to call . that have put I in some of the most difficult of position , but I be proud to have do it , as well as to have support the steel industry , to have secure huge amount of money for flood defence — I represent the most flood - prone constituency — and also , through the bid writing service that I set up , to have secure £ 2 . 5 million . we have get defib all over , secure the town deal for Goole and , in more recent time , fund and produce in my constituency — thank to the brilliant work of Oliver North — 156 ambulance for Ukraine . I be come on to my closing remark , but I have to thank my local councillor . my local party have be brilliant , particularly Councillor Rob Waltham , the leader of our council who have be my agent in all of these election . he be utterly brilliant at make you do thing you do not want to do in the pour rain , so I thank he . I also thank my staff who have work alongside I : the one who presently work for I be Kassim Qureshi — who be in the Gallery — Julie Reed , Sarah Hayes , Elaine Marper , Mark Kerman , Tom Bramham and Pedr Owen , and my former parliamentary staff be Robert Lingard and Andrew Barrett . we all live on as friend to this day in the beer club . there be a game go on with my former staffer : if I get " beer club " into this speech , I be do all right . I also thank other who have come and go : Corey , Craig , Aiden , Liam , and so many more . I thank Pat and Liz — Pat work with I for 10 year when I be a councillor . when I be make a Minister , the private office ring up my Goole office and ask she , " how do the Minister like his tea or his coffee ? " she say , " I don ' t know , he get his own , " which I think be wonderful . then she say , " some people ring up ask about this bloke call the Minister , and I have to ask , ' who do you mean ? ' " they never fail to make absolutely clear to I that my presence in the constituency office be nothing but a pain in the backside for they . I thank Pat , Liz , Georgina and other , as well as all of my intern who we have have over the year , particularly those from the US and Canada . I also want to thank other team I have work with , include conservative Friends of Israel , particularly James Gurd , the political director , who be now a close friend of mine ; the European Leadership Network ; and the Antisemitism Policy Trust , which I have work very closely with , include with Danny Stone , who be also in the Gallery today . I also thank SurrogacyUK , which I work with on my all - party parliamentary group on surrogacy . I be so proud to have serve in this place . it be an amazing privilege to get that opportunity , but I be sad to be leave at a time when a couple of issue particularly close to my heart be in the news and be of such concern . the first be the appalling rise in Jew hate — antisemitism — in this country . it break my heart to see jewish people in this country frighten and afraid to go about their business , show their faith . it be a stain on our democracy and our country , and it be happen across the west . antisemitism be the canary in the coalmine . the second thing that break my heart be the tone of political discourse , and the way in which we seem incapable of have a discussion and a debate without it turn into threat , personal abuse and all the rest of it . I be the first one to be blunt . I believe in be clear and firm : tell people what you think , and do not be afraid of how you say it . be forceful at time , if you need to be . but there be also a need to be respectful and to appreciate that , at the end of the day , the people on the other side of politic be motivate by the same thing , which be to do good ; it be just that we disagree about how to get there . unfortunately , today our politic be become so toxic and awful that we sometimes forget that all of we in this place be motivate by exactly the same thing . I have be proud to work across the Chamber with various colleague . the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , who be in the Chamber early , be very generous to I , and I will be generous to he too . I have also work with the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) ; we work together very constructively in the Brexit year . I will end by say that I have meet some absolute rotter in my time in this job , but none of they be in this Chamber today . actually , I have just spot one — no . [ laughter . ] generally , despite the rotter , I have work and serve with amazing people in this place across the political aisle . as I have say , it have be the privilege of my life to be here . I never think I would be , and I count everybody in this place as a friend and thank everybody for serve alongside I . you be a true friend , Andy . I know we will see lot of you in the come month when you come up and campaign for I at the election , and stuff like that — love you load . I call Chloe Smith . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I begin by thank all the House staff through you , as so many colleague have do . the first thing I need to say to right hon . and hon . friend be that it be literally my fault that we be have a snap election , because it be I who legislate for the removal of the fix - term Parliaments Act 2011 , allow the Prime Minister to call an election whenever he choose . I be sorry for that emotional rollercoaster . I , too , will start by thank my constituent , who have place their trust in I five time . that make I the long - serve Member of Parliament for either of the two Norwich constituency in modern time , and I be deeply proud of that . I would also like to thank all the volunteer at Norwich Conservatives . I , too , need to thank my office team , include the wonderful Alice Burt , who have work for I for 14 year , since August 2010 . after some tough personal time , which I have share with a few colleague on these Benches and beyond , I really want to thank my friend here in this place , include but not limit to my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) , who help I through these time . it be the right time to step back , for I and my family , and indeed to step forward to the next chapter of life . I come here as the baby of the House , at age 27 , and now I be at the ripe age of 42 — I can feel a few Douglas Adams joke come on here , so I will just say that I now know the meaning of life and can say , " so long , and thank for all the fish . " [ interruption . ] come on , that deserve more than that . be there no more reader of Douglas Adams on these Benches than that ? it have be an absolute privilege to serve Norwich North . I be most proud of the employment project I begin in my constituency call Norwich for Jobs . I be proud of the investment I have be able to secure for the area , with new train carriage now serve the whole of East Anglia . that be material to people ' s job and prosperity . it have be a huge honour to be able to serve in Government and lead both the big Department and one of the new . the passion I have from those Departments — for the labour market and technology — be one I will take forward into my new challenge , especially in my continue work to help those who be economically inactive into the right job for they . like many other who have speak this afternoon , I be very proud of this House . I want to give the example of when we come together , across party , to pass the British Sign Language Act 2022 . we all know how important that be for many constituent , and in many case it be downright iconic . I be very proud to have do that . can I take this opportunity to urge member who be stand to be accessible in their campaigning ? I be afraid to say that include make sure that there be a sign language interpreter in Downing Street whether it be rain or not . the same go for all major announcement and from all party . let we do that so that 100 % of voter and citizen be include in our political discourse . I be glad to note that one of the last , quite substantial thing the House have do be to make progress this week for the victim of the infected blood scandal , which remind we of what we have to do well and what we must get right . from the last Parliament alone , I expect that we will be think again about the major decision we have to take in those five year . I think about all the policy choice and terrible trade - off that come from the pandemic alone ; I regret some of those , and I do hope that they be the subject of a real debate in year to come . from my role in Government , I have a deep respect for a number of thing that I want to touch on . from my first Government role in the Treasury be the notion that the public finance must be sound . from effectively a decade as the Constitution Minister and serve in the Northern Ireland Office , I have a huge respect for how our constitution and democracy work and how our Union hold together . as other have mention , work in the Whips Office give you a deep respect for elect accountability through this place . the role of Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , share with my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , remind we of the importance of public service and our duty to they and remind we of our opportunity to help people into work and find position that be good for they . finally , I be able to support my right hon . friend the Member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) by cover for she as Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . that allow we to write history in how we do maternity leave at the high level , and it give one personally a great sense of perspective and possibility about what be ahead for our nation . have serve as a Minister under all five conservative Prime Ministers , I need to gently correct my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) by say that I share that record with he . the sixth Prime Minister that he and I serve in the House under be Gordon Brown . I add a further anecdote at this point : I wonder whether I might be one of the only Members of the House who have be mistake for not one but two other member of the House , one of whom be a man . I speak , of course , of the wonderful and late James Brokenshire , who it be a huge pleasure to work with in the Northern Ireland Office and in many other capacity , as many hon . member do . it be , I think , Quentin Letts , then of the Daily Mail , who call we robot twin with bog - brush hair . I think to myself , if that be what it take to match up to James Brokenshire ' s record of public service , I be proud to have be his twin . the other hon . member who I have be mistake for be none other than the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , which be perhaps more unusual . I meet an absolutely wonderful resident in Norwich brandish a Green poster from her garden two door down the street from my house . she say , " I think this poster be yours . " I say , " I really don ' t think it be . I think it must be yours . allow I to return it to your garden . " she say , " I think I recognise you . " I say , " no , I ' m sure you don ' t . " she say , " I do . you ' re that Caroline Lucas . " I correct she , move on , and leave she to her Green activity . I hope that she and other vote conservative at the election to come . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who have briefly leave the Chamber , who be the campaign manager for my by - election in July 2009 . I be deeply grateful to she for that and for the number of other way in which she teach I how to do this job . from that , we should all remember the joy of July election — let we put our sun hat and sun cream on , and let we not forget to have an ice cream . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Mr Bacon ) , who I think will speak later . I still owe he a dinner for the leg that he break while campaign for I in Norfolk that summer . I thank he and many other who come from across the country to help we in Norwich in that by - election . to return to Norwich and Norfolk , it be an enormous privilege to have serve in my home county . have grow up in Norfolk , it be as great an honour to speak at my old high school as it be to speak at the United Nations on Government business . both be equal in the work that we do for our community and our country . I thank my mentor , the noble Baroness Shephard in the other place , who be my Member of Parliament while I be grow up . she first meet I when I be 12 and probably recruit I to the party and to the cause . like other hon . member , I pay tribute to my parent and my family , which have have grow since I have be an MP . as we say in Norfolk , in a phrase that sum up tenacity and determination , keep a - troshin ' on — keep go , Mr Deputy Speaker . to finish on a semi - comic note , my recent experience have be election , referendum , baby , election , baby , election , pandemic , cancer . perhaps I be look for a quieter life , but I hope that I never lose the sense of service , of empathy , of listen and of care for what people do , need and believe , because that be absolutely what we be here to do . I wish the next generation of public servant the courage to change what can be change , the serenity and determination to keep a - troshin ' on on behalf of constituent , and the wisdom to serve both our community and our country . thank you , Chloe , and good of luck for the future . I rise to speak for the last time in this place . I be the 505th woman to take her seat in Parliament , but the first to represent the Cities of London and Westminster . the seat be establish in 1298 , so it take we a while , but we get there eventually . I be proud that I be give the freedom of the City last year . follow on from what so many colleague have say , it have be such a privilege to represent what I consider to be the capital of the capital . it be the home of Parliament , the monarch , the legal profession , the City of London and the amazing west end . the Cities of London and Westminster be the most amazing constituency to represent , and it have so many iconic site , but the most important part of my constituency be the people and the neighbourhood : Soho , Marylebone , Pimlico , Fitzrovia , Covent Garden , Belgravia , Knightsbridge and the City — I could go on . there be amazing people , resident association and amenity society in every part of the constituency , and I thank every single one of they for support I . I have be very proud to receive quite a lot of email and letter since I announce that I be step down , with many say , " I have never vote conservative , but I vote for you . " I thank they all . it have be a short time . I do not expect it to be one term , as I hope that I might scrape a second . I start on the greasy pole , the ministerial ladder , during those four and a half year . I be appoint as a PPS in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government quite early on , but I find that it be not for I . [ interruption . ] the whip probably realise , too . be on the payroll , I could not say anything . as colleague know well , I do not like to be quiet , so I ask the then Chief Whip whether I could step down , and he say , " okay . " I have since be able to campaign , which be what I love . I be delighted that , in my one and only term , we have secure short - term let registration . one of my proud moment be secure an amendment to the Domestic Abuse Bill so that child be now recognise as victim if they live in a household in which domestic violence or domestic abuse exist . I be sure the now Lord Chancellor will never forget the conversation we have when I be a very new , green MP and do not realise that , as a government Back Bencher , I should not really table amendment . he say that he would not take through the amendment , and we have what I would call robust conversation , but he come around to my point of view eventually . I have also campaign to repeal the Vagrancy Act 1824 , which make it illegal to sleep rough . I be very sad that the Criminal Justice Bill will not go through wash - up , and that the Vagrancy Act will therefore remain on the statute book . I plead with whoever lead the next government , and I hope it be a Conservative Government , to repeal the Vagrancy Act . I be also proud of the new - bear baby screening , which be the subject of one of the first ministerial meeting I ever have . the heel prick use to test for only nine disease in new - bear baby , the low number in the western world . by work with the then Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , we change that , and baby be now test for hundred of disease . there be also the fertility workplace pledge , on which I have a private Member ' s Bill — we all know what happen to some of those . I therefore set up the voluntary fertility workplace pledge , work alongside brilliant organisation include Fertility Matters at Work , Fertility Network UK and other . company across the country , big and small , be now sign up for workplace fertility policy . I recently have the idea of a british jewish history month , and I hope very much that the next Government will see it through . I have give this task to my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , and I know that he will see it through , because he know what will happen if he do not . however , of all my campaign , if there be one that may be particularly well know , it be the one on pedicab . I have to thank all my hon . friend for their support . they be quite surprised to find a reference to pedicab in the King ' s Speech — and so , to be honest , be I — but believe I , it have be my life ' s work to secure a pedicab licensing scheme for London . it take two private member ' Bills and a Transport Bill that be never conclude , and then there be the King ' s Speech . I have to put on record my thank — some will be quite surprised by this — to the former Member of Parliament for Uxbridge and South Ruislip . during a conversation with I , he ask , " what be happen to pedicabs regulation ? " I say , " well , you may want to have a conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch . " I can not tell the House exactly how he respond , but he do make it clear that there be no pedicab in Christchurch . I say , " I know that . " a couple of week later , however , I receive a text from the then Prime Minister , say , " where be we with pedicab ? " I reply , " we be still not get it through . " his response be " leave it with I . " this be at seven o ' clock on a Saturday morning . by four o ' clock that afternoon , the then Transport Secretary be ring I up to say , " we be go to put pedicab in the Transport Bill . " obviously that do happen , but then my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond ( Yorks ) ( Rishi Sunak ) become Prime Minister , and I will always be grateful to he and his team for put pedicab regulation into the King ' s Speech . I be absolutely delighted when that happen , and it will make such a difference in central London — to tourist , to the safety of woman and girl , and to the amenity of local resident . there have to be some thank yous before I leave this place . obviously I must thank my amazing office staff , who be here today : Louise Parry , Ben Sewell , Lucy Scoffin , James Lloyd and Harry McKay . I could not have achieve anything like what I have achieve without they . apparently there have be 32 , 000 piece of casework — not that I have do much of that . [ laughter . ] you all know that you do not do your casework ! I must also thank my amazing conservative association team , include Reece and Paula , and my long - suffer agent James Cockram . I also thank my dear and close friend outside this place , because friend be so important . Kate and Andrew McCarthy , Clare Hambro , Christabel Flight , Daniel Astaire , Sally Vernon - Evans , Josie Lyon and Julie Molloy have keep I sane . I must of course thank my amazing parliamentary friend as well , include the " Trophic Women " ; I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) for point out that they be not " Trophy Women " , as I have think . I shall not be able to name all my parliamentary colleague , but I thank my hon . friend the Members for Brecon and Radnorshire ( Fay Jones ) , for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) , for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) and for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) , my right hon . friend the Members for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) and for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , my right hon . friend the Members for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and for Elmet and Rothwell ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) — whom I must thank for point out to I once on my birthday that I be old enough to be his mother , and that he would be my firstborn . I must also thank my friend across the aisle . as we have hear , it be so important in this place to have friend from across the aisle , and I will always be grateful to the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , who have be an amazing constituency neighbour . we do so much together , particularly last year in mark the fifth anniversary of the Westminster Bridge terrorist attack . I thank the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) ; many member have be surprised to hear I refer to he as " Sir " , but that be because he be my teacher at school . the last of the many Opposition Members I have to thank be the hon . member for Westminster North ( Ms Buck ) . she and I have campaign together on many issue in Westminster over the year . I know she be step down , and she will be greatly miss . I have to thank , and perhaps blame , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , who be no long in his place , for get I into the Conservative party when I be 19 , which be a long time ago . I will always be grateful to he . I thank all the staff , include the Doorkeepers , those who work in the Tea Room and everybody else . I will always miss have our sweepstake with the Doorkeepers outside on what time we be go to finish . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . we have know each other far too long — 30 year , I think . I also thank Mr Speaker , who have give I amazing support over the year — first , when I be leader of Westminster City Council , and then in this place . I have to thank my family , include my husband Alex . it be his fault I be leave , I be afraid . he be now live the dream in Abu Dhabi and work very hard . I thank my son Harry , who be do his English a - level today and who would be here otherwise . I be seven month pregnant with he when I be first elect , so he have know nothing but I be an elect politician . I thank my gorgeous daughter Georgia , who be the reason why I be here . when she be bear in 2004 , I be determined to show she that woman can achieve in public life — so it be all her fault , really . that be how I want to end . I want to say to any girl or mum of a girl watch this that they have every right to stand for public office . no matter what their background , where they be go or where they have be , they must consider stand for public office . we have get to hear more woman ' s voice in this place and across all political sphere . we be 51 % of the population , and we give birth to the other 49 % . we need to be hear . if this girl from Cardiff , who have a comprehensive education , can become leader of Westminster City Council and then the first woman MP for Cities of London and Westminster , you can too . Diolch yn fawr , Nickie . thank you for remind we that if it be not for our staff , we would have to do the work ourselves . I look forward to see you and Alex in the UAE sometime soon . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , who remind I that , as a young girl , she live in Bromley . I be delighted to see she here . like my hon . friend , I start my career in local government , and it be exactly 50 year since I be elect to Havering Council . I be young and somewhat more acne , which indicate something about the quality of social life that I have at the time . I be lucky enough to take responsibility on the council quite early , and I enjoy do so . I be chairman of the environment committee — we have a committee system back then , rather than portfolio holder — and I be able to initiate important measure , such as clean up the street of Havering , Romford and Hornchurch . that trigger a headline in the Romford Recorder that read , " dog mess Neill step in " , which may have set the general tone for what be to be the early part of my political career . I then briefly find myself on the Greater London Council . that be useful , because I manage to keep pace with Ken Livingstone in the bar from time to time , which come in handy later when I become the London Assembly Member for Bexley and Bromley , and leader of the conservative group on the London Assembly . of course , that background in London politic have enable I to meet many of my hon . friend who be here today . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster be one , and my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Stephen Hammond ) , who be sit next to I , be another . as I be engage in London politic , I be also practise as a barrister , and I will say more about that in a moment . my journey , which start 50 year ago , come to an end today , and it have be an amazing privilege . I be not quite sure what my maternal grandfather , a staunch trade unionist , would have make of it all , but I hope he be look down favourably . eventually I be fortunate enough to be elect , after a couple of mishap . I fight Dagenham twice — Dagenham fight back . it be perhaps the only election campaign where one of my former client volunteer to deliver leaflet for I . when I be elect at the by - election in Chislehurst , another former client come up to I and say , " ah , Bob . I vote for you . " give I have get he acquit a year or so before of a £ 250 million bearer bond fraud , I think that be the least he could have do . in the end , the Bromley and Chislehurst constituency come along and I be elect at the by - election . I have become the London Assembly Member under the usual circumstance : I do not live in either Bexley or Bromley , but the people of Bexley do not want anyone from Bromley and the people of Bromley do not want anyone from Bexley . I arrive and serve on the London Assembly . I pay tribute to the work that be do in local government , across the piece and everywhere . I have the privilege thereafter of be local government Minister for a time , so I know how important the work of local government be . I have now represent the wonderful constituency of Bromley and Chislehurst for the past 18 year , and I have make many great friend there . Bromley be Harold Macmillan ' s constituency ; I have always feel that very strongly as I see myself in the Macmillan tradition of one nation Conservatism . I be a politician on the centre - right . in my book , the centre in that phrase be as important as the right . long may we continue to hold to that tradition of pragmatism , compassion and sensible moderation that have be the hallmark of our party over the year , which Macmillan epitomise and which inspire many of my generation . the seat have change over the year , but it be a still a wonderful part of London to live in , as I do and intend to continue to do . it have be split up by the Boundary Commission . among other thing , that have trigger my decision to leave , as well as perhaps the passing of the year , although not really . I wish both Charlie Davis in Chislehurst and Eltham and Peter Fortune in Bromley and Biggin Hill every good fortune in carry on the fight — if they be successful , as I hope they will be , at the election . have arrive in the House , I serve as a shadow Minister and be then appoint a junior Minister at the Department of Communities and Local Government in 2010 . my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) and I arrive at the Department on the same day . I seem to recall it take 24 hour before the civil service would let we into the building , because a fax need to be send to confirm who we be and that we have be appoint as Ministers . lo and behold , who be the then parliamentary private Secretary to the Secretary of State Eric Pickles , but my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ? it be a privilege to serve as a Minister . as well as local government , I deal with the fire service . interestingly , Eric ask I to become Minister for community pub — I can not think why that come about . I notice that far more official be willing to come with I on visit when I be deal with community pub than they be when I be deal with local government pension fund . in the course of that local government work , I meet the Deputy Chief Whip , my right hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Mr Jones ) , who be now sit on the Front Bench . I appreciate David Cameron give I the opportunity to serve as a Minister . he once describe I at a conservative councillor ' conference as " Eric ' s mini I " . somebody once say junior Ministers be there to be the Secretary of State ' s human shield ; well , I don ' t think I be much of that . that time in Government pass , and for the past nine year I have have the great privilege of my career in Parliament : to chair the Justice Committee . the law have be central to my life and always will be . deal with those issue in this House , and remind people that a function justice system be as important a social service as function education , health and care system , matter . my brand of conservatism , and indeed all safe form of constitutional government , depend upon respect for institution , check and balance , and the independence of our judiciary . I gently say that anyone in politic who have attempt to attack lawyer for do their job , or judge for come to their independent decision , be not understanding of check and balance — that be neither constitutional , nor , I say gently , very conservative . I hope that I have do my good to make that case , and that there will be other way in which I can continue do so from outside this House . I thank all member of the Committee . we have have a magnificent team over the year . when I start , two bright young Back Benchers come on to the Committee . one be now the Attorney General ; the other be the Lord Chancellor . I rather feel that I have become a sort of legal - political Banquo — not king but father of king . it be a great source of pride to I to see that serious lawyer be still prepared to come into Parliament and carry out essential public service . frankly , we need more of they , because to scrutinise legislation , a forensic mind and approach be of genuine value . I also thank the Committee Clerks . they have be absolutely brilliant . we have have number of they , most recently Rob Cope and his team , and David Weir , who many hon . member know , before he . I thank everybody who have work with I in that role . I like to think that we have be consensual and deal with thing on a cross - party basis , and I hope that we have make a difference in a number of area . my only regret in my farewell be bring forward somewhat unexpectedly be that there be still business undo that I would like to have return to , such as the service and work of the probate registry , the situation in our prison , and the pressure in our court — there be still much more to do . the people who work in the justice system at every level provide a great service to our country . I have also have the chance to pursue other cause dear to my heart , and I hope to be able to continue that , too . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Gibraltar , which be a matter of great pride to I . Gibraltar be a proud part of the british family , and we owe it to Gibraltarians to have a good deal with the European Union in order to enable the free - flow border that be absolutely essential to Gibraltar ' s wellbee . it be our choice — although not my personal choice — to leave the European Union . that be the democratic decision , but as many people will know , it place Gibraltar under particular pressure . we owe it to they not to obstruct any sensible deal . I be sure that that will be the case in the hand of this or any future government , because we have build cross - party consensus on support Gibraltar . I have also be able to do that sometimes very dangerous thing in politic of own up to an interest in the art . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on opera , and be delighted to have work across party with the Mother of the House , the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , and the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) in our campaign to rescue great institution such as the English National Opera from at least some of the damage do by the cut by Arts Council England . I have never understand the invert snobbery that we sometimes have about public figure talk about an interest in the art . I get interested in opera when I be a teenager , when I do a bit of amateur acting , would you believe . I never see any contradiction in go to Sadler ' s Wells or Covent Garden , up in the god on a Friday , and go to Upton Park to watch West Ham on a Saturday . it ought to be perfectly possible to enjoy both , and I hope that we have a future generation of politician just as willing to talk about their interest in theatre , music and all other art form as they be about sporting activity . they be all part of what enrich our soul . finally , the other thing that I have deal with be stroke care . I very much hope to continue with that as it be very personal to I , as the House will know . for Ann - Louise ' s sake , and the sake of many other , I want to continue to ensure that we get well stroke care . we be great at the lifesave bit , but we need an awful lot more to be do for therapy and recovery thereafter . and so , as the greyhound of destiny catch up with the electric hare of fate , to quote those immortal word that we use to get on " I ' m sorry I Haven ' t a Clue " , I have well draw my remark to an end with some thank - yous . I say a particular thank you to my office staff , who have look after I throughout — to Vanessa and Rory , who be up in the Gallery , to Jane , to Lewis , to Sam , who be with I for many year , and to Joanne in the constituency office . they have all be star . they have be very tolerant of I . they have collect thing that I have leave in all manner of unlikely place . I could not thank they enough . they be like a second family . I , too , thank all the member of staff of the Commons , at every level , from the Doorkeepers right the way around . all of you have be magnificent . I do hope that the Smoking Room will remain financially viable when I have go . I shall always miss all of you . the final thank - yous be to my family : to Anne - Louise , who have always be there for I — now it be my turn to be there for she — my two wonderful stepchildren , James and Victoria , and my little grandson , Aneurin , who be one this week . we be a very ecumenical family in political term , as colleague can tell from the name . for he , I want to make sure that the world be well when he grow up than it be in some respect at the moment . that be an ambition that we all have . maybe watch this at some point will be my old mum , who be 100 in September — I just hope it be in the gene . as for what the future hold , we will see . my practice be , of course , always at the criminal Bar . I find it useful sometimes when the witness could not see where the cross - examination be come from . anyone who know the criminal Bar will not be surprised to hear that I have a message early today from my old head of chamber , Jim Sturman KC , say , " ring the clerk about come back . " who know , but it have be the privilege of my life to represent Bromley and Chislehurst and its wonderful people — my friend and neighbour — and a privilege to have have the chance to do the job that I have do . now be the right time for I to go — before , as happen with all old lawyer , I lose my appeal . Sir Robert — Bob , as you be know to everybody — we be go to miss you . love to Anne - Louise . you have always be there for she ; we know that . maybe there will be a bit more time now for opera . we wish you incredibly well . it be a huge privilege to follow my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . it be sober for I to reflect that almost 19 year ago to the day , on 23 May 2005 , I be sit on the Opposition Benches wait to make my maiden speech . all colleague will know what a fraught moment that be . it be a bit like stand for the first time on the high diving board : you be hope to make a bit of a splash , but not so much that you damage yourself in the process . now , at the end of those 19 year , I be finally bid farewell to this wonderful old place . it be my ambition to come here from the age of nine , when I visit this place with my father . I fall in love with the Palace of Westminster and decide that I want to become a Conservative MP . you , Mr Deputy Speaker , will know how remarkable that is , because of course I be Welsh — but I be also a Londoner . I be , in fact , bear in the London Hospital , which be within earshot of the Bow bell . that make I the rare of beast : I be a Welsh cockney . my entire life have be live in two place : here in our capital city , and in north Wales . I love they both . it have be the great privilege of my life to represent the interest of the people of Clwyd West in this House in five successive Parliaments . I want they to know that they have my deep thank for the confidence that they have place in I over the last 19 year . my association with Clwyd West begin in 1974 , when I enter article with the firm of William Jones and Talog Davies , St Peter ' s Square , Ruthin . for those who do not know it , Ruthin be arguably the fine small town in Wales . its medieval centre be an outstanding collection of building , include Nantclwyd y Dre House , which be reputedly the only edifice leave stand after Glynd ŵ r put the town to the torch in 1400 , at the start of his rebellion . almost opposite Nantclwyd be Sir John Trevor House , which take its name from a former Speaker of this House . John Trevor be in fact simultaneously Speaker of the Commons and Master of the Rolls at the end of the 17th century . he be impeach for take a bribe and be banish from the Chair of the Commons but , remarkably enough , he be allow to remain Master of the Rolls , which just go to show that in those day , high standard be expect of politician than of judge . Sir John Trevor be notorious for his very pronounce squint , which , as Speaker of the Commons , be something of an occupational hazard , because people never know when they have catch his eye . several hon . member would stand up at the same time , and Trevor use to get terribly upset about it . over recent year , Ruthin have experience many of the same difficulty as other small market town up and down the country , so it be an unequivocal boon when it be award almost £ 11 million under the levelling - up scheme . the award will benefit not only the historical town centre , but the nearby village of Bryneglwys and Gwyddelwern , which will have new community centre . the award also mean that we will have a new , much - need visitor centre on Moel Famau , which be the great hill that overlook Ruthin . the award will help restore civic pride , and it will of course also act as a boost to the visitor economy . most importantly , include to I personally , it will result in the removal of the ugly , intrusive roundabout that have be a carbuncle on the otherwise virtually perfect St Peter ' s Square since the 1960 . I be pleased to work closely with Denbighshire County Council under the leadership of my friend , the excellent Councillor Hugh Evans , in produce the levelling - up bid , and I be delighted when it be grant . town such as Ruthin and many other in north Wales have in many respect be forget about over recent year . the levelling - up fund be develop to address the need of such place , and I very much hope that other north Wales town , such as Colwyn Bay and Abergele in my constituency , will also benefit from it in future . over my year in this House , I have try my utmost to advance the interest of north Wales . the levelling - up fund be a great initiative , but much more need to be do . in particular , transport link need to be improve . pleasingly , the Government have allocate £ 1 billion to the electrification of the north Wales coast main line . that be indeed welcome , but we need more flesh on the bone . my plea be that whoever be in government next should press ahead with that project , to ensure that north Wales have the sort of rail infrastructure necessary in a 21st century economy . I have be privileged in my time in this House to serve twice in government . my first ministerial role be at the Wales Office , where I be ultimately appoint Secretary of State . in that capacity , I of course have many dealing with the Welsh Government . many of they be positive , but my experience be that there be an unfortunate and undesirable tension between the two Administrations who be responsible for the governance of Wales . too frequently , that relationship be perceive as a competition . that be probably the result of an inherent fault in the structure of devolution . I believe that it need re - examine , so that both of Wales ' s government work in co - operation , whichever party be in power , for the benefit of Welsh resident . I therefore recommend that the next Government conduct a review of the constitutional settlement , with the aim of replace the current state of affair with something that be more beneficial to Welsh citizen . such a settlement would require recognition that some thing be do well here at Westminster , some at Cardiff , and some at the local government level . indeed , Welsh local authority should be trust more in the administration of their area . if they be , there would possibly not have be the problem that we have see as a result of the unpopular decision to impose a 20 mph speed limit across all build - up area in Wales . my second ministerial position be at the Department for exit the European Union , and I be very pleased to see my former colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , in the Chamber today . that be the most challenging and , in many respect , the most satisfying experience of my time here at Westminster . I always feel that the United Kingdom be an individualistic country , and that it be very different from the continental nation , and therefore not really fit to be part of a supranational organisation such as the EU . I campaign actively for Brexit , and I be delighted when the british people vote in favour of it . the proud moment of my time here at Westminster be when I take the European Union ( Notification of Withdrawal ) Act 2017 through this House , which trigger the legal process of withdrawal . we have , of course , now complete that process . we be once again a sovereign , independent nation , although I retain concern about Northern Ireland under the Windsor framework . I also recognise that Brexit have be controversial , and that some division have be cause by it . nevertheless , I believe that Brexit be ultimately the right thing to do and in the interest of the country . anyone who spend any time at all as a Member of this House be hugely privileged . we be supremely well serve by erudite and brilliant Clerks , both in this Chamber and in Committees . we have the benefit of one of the fine research library in the world . we have the service of the immaculate Doorkeepers . we be feed and water by excellent catering staff . we be keep secure by brave police officer , one of whom , Keith Palmer , give his life for we ; he be quite rightly — though , sadly , posthumously — award the George Medal . and we all have our team of bright , highly motivated , talented , and sometimes very young people , all of whom will probably go very far in life . I want to mention my team of Ted Wilson , Greg Wynne , Leanne Kennedy , Isobel Barrett and Isabel Turnbull , who be know in the office as " the two Izzys " . we be highly blessed in this extraordinary community , and I thank each and every member of it . finally , I thank the staff of Hansard , who record our every utterance , no matter how profound or banal , with absolute accuracy for the benefit — and probably the bemusement — of future generation . indeed , such be their accuracy that I have no doubt that they will faithfully transcribe the name of some of the lovely village of my constituency : Llanrhaeadr , Llansannan , Llangernyw , Llanarmon - yn - I â l , Clawddnewydd , Clocaenog and Cyffylliog — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] — whose people I have be privileged to serve , and who I will miss so very much . Madam Deputy Speaker , thank you so much for allow I the honour of speak this afternoon . I start by thank you , and your fellow Deputy Speaker , for all your service to this House . may I also thank Mr Speaker for the kindness that he have show I over so many year ? it be a pleasure to follow my right hon . friend the Member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) . we come into the House at the same time , and as he suggest , he and I probably have different view on what he regard as his great triumph . it be also a great privilege to follow my great friend , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , although there be one moment when I think I be not his friend . when I have the honour to be parliamentary private Secretary to Eric Pickles , he say to I one morning , " will you come in on Friday , Stephen , there ' s a meeting I want you to attend ? " it be a particularly tricky negotiation with the Fire Brigades Union . Bob open the meeting . he then say " I have bring along the PPS to the Secretary of State today . Stephen , what would the Secretary of State like to say ? " at which point I be completely blindside — a bit like with much of his cross - examination . I realise that as I stand here today it be 19 year and five day after my maiden speech in this House . I be elect on 5 May and I speak on the 19th . I say then , and I still believe , that Wimbledon , combine with Raynes Park , Motspur Park and Morden , be the good place in the world to live . we have a unique suburban village , a revitalise town centre , and a business community which I describe then as " lively " but which be now vibrant . the tech sector in Wimbledon be thrive and home to many brilliant company , but I think particularly of various company such as Rockborne and a med tech company which be change the way we can treat arthritis . Wimbledon have many small business and be often portray as a leafy suburb , but the reality be that as many people commute into Wimbledon as commute out . I still believe it to be the good place to live and it have be an honour to represent it . since announce I be stand down , I have find people say , " what be your great achievement while in Parliament ? " I suspect all colleague here can think of a few . I be particularly proud of the fact that I have be part of a Government who have transform school standard across Britain . that give life opportunity and life chance that be not there before . I be very pleased to be pps to the inspirational Eric Pickles and it be a great honour to serve with my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) in his team as a Minister of State . but what I particularly remember be a visit on 13 May 2005 when I hold my first surgery . a constituent come to that surgery as the flat above have flood her flat . for six month she have want for a piece of carpet to replace the carpet that have be take away . that piece of carpet cost £ 77 . she come to I as her last resort : she have be to Citizens Advice and to the local council ; she have phone her local councillor . I take up the issue with the council and two week later a cheque for £ 77 arrive . that be actually a part of my proud achievement : the service that I and my team have give to thousand of people . we should never forget that , when we be here in this place , there be the excitement , the pressure , the gossip , the chance to have a drink with a friend , but it be our work and help to our constituent that change their life . I believe that we act as the advocate for our constituent against authority in the wide sense of the word . we should never forget that , for that be the power of good . I be say something similar on the Iain Dale show about two year ago . Valerie from Wimbledon phone in and say " Stephen Hammond be a wonderful mp ; he be really great for the local community . " Iain Dale say , " well I ' m sure he ' s pleased to hear that . " she say , " I doubt it , I ' m a Labour voter and I ' m never go to vote for he . " but actually that be the whole point . once we be here , we be here to represent all our constituent . we would like they all to vote for we but we know not all of they will . for those colleague who be go out on the fight , I say , " remember that , go out and fight for every vote , for you know not where it may come and it may well serve you in time . " I think of a lot of thing that I have hear in this Chamber today , and I be pleased to have sit through so many wonderful speech . one thing that I think be important be that as member of Parliament we should remember compassion . what we do and how we help be hugely valuable . it be a bit like what my great friend , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst , say : centre - right , compassionate conservatism be the way forward for our party , and it be the way back for our party to Government . I particularly remember a constituent who come to I a few year ago . his wife have give birth to a child in Greece about 13 or 14 week premature . she be airlift back to St George ' s via various method . her son be treat at the wonderful neonatal unit at St George ' s that I have have the pleasure and honour of visit several time . I meet that constituent a few year later . I have be proud to campaign for summer bear child . I believe that summer bear child have the right to start school a little later ; that improve their life and life chance . it make they happy , more confident , more academically successful and more likely to achieve their real potential in life . I be grateful to successive Ministers at the Department for Education , who have listen and change the guidance to local council at least three time . although that be not law , it be now guidance — and up and down the country summer bear child have benefit . over the 19 year , much about this place have remain constant . as many colleague have reflect , there be still the camaraderie of friendship and the wisdom and knowledge of colleague . to be fair , I also remember that on my first two day in the House two colleague , mean very well , tell I how to run my constituency office and organise myself . their version be completely contradictory . what that tell all of we in this place be that the camaraderie bind we , but we each represent individual and different constituency . I have always believe that everyone in this House , of whatever political colour , come here for the right reason . all too often , people forget that we be in this for the right reason and although , as some colleague have reflect today , politician be malign , what we do in this place for our constituent be important . almost everybody I have meet have come here for the right reason . the role of mps have change dramatically . when I arrive , there be a postbag every day ; now I be lucky if I get one letter . but I do get well over 100 email every day , which bring huge expectancy of a fast and great response . yet the reality be that sometimes the local council , the housing authority and — dare I say it — even Government Departments frustrate our ability to provide that for constituent . we also have a much great local role than ever before . that be hugely important , but we should not forget that we be elect to this place to contribute to national life as well . in play that important local role , we must remember that we be here to scrutinise and hold government to account . that be become increasingly important since we leave the European Union because there be a great burden of scrutiny on this House . I join several colleague in mention that the coarseness of political discourse be a concern and should be not just for the future but particularly for the next six week . People should , if possible , talk about hope and the sunny upland and what they want to do for their constituent , rather than badmouth opponent . remember that they be in this for the right reason . I be pleased to see that the Government have make some real step forward on social medium , but some actor on social medium still engender political hate . we must remain vigilant against that . like so many colleague , I would like to use this Oscar moment to say a few thank yous . I thank the Clerks and the Doorkeepers , and the police and security man who keep we safe . many colleague have comment on the wonderful people in the Tea Room . I think that I should acknowledge the people in the Pugin Room , who always use to say , " ah , Mr Hammond — white Burgundy , family size . " I always seem to arrive . I have be fortunate to have a wonderful political conservative association in Wimbledon . I thank all my friend there . I recognise , like so many colleague , that we be here only because we be part of a team — this be the conservative team — and what I do for my constituent be because of the team of people I have . over the year , the team have include Jerry Sherman , Ben Carleton Jones , Charlie McClelland , Alice Hopkinson , Paul Holmes — I can say that , even though he be now my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh — that must have be a dark time in your office . yes , our productivity go down . so do your majority . [ laughter . ] may I gently advise the deputy Chief Whip of that when he be think about future Government appointment ? Jay Crush , Miles Jordan and Louise Stevens have also work with I and put in extraordinary effort . as ever , my big thank , like those of so many here , be to my family : to my wife , who be look after her father today ; and to my daughter , who be in the Gallery . no one could have wish for a more supportive family . they go through the up and down — mainly down in my case — of political life and put up with it so tolerantly . finally , I thank the people of Wimbledon , who for the past 19 year have put their trust in I to represent they here , to serve their interest and to look after they in this House . it have be a huge and extraordinary privilege to be a member of this place for 19 year . as I go , I do so , like many , with regret that I be go , but it the right time to pass on the torch . I be hugely privileged and thankful for have have the opportunity to be here for so long . it be a great pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Stephen Hammond ) , who have be my good friend for many year before he become my hon . friend . we have a long - stand share interest in his wife — [ Laughter . ] that be perhaps not the appropriate thing to say , give that his daughter and my goddaughter be in the Gallery , but we have be chum for a long time . I have to admit that , unlike many other hon . colleague , I have have no hug in the last few day . [ hon . member : " ah . " ] that may be because I have be in the mountain kingdom of Lesotho , far away from this place , watch the incredible event of the last few day unfurl . I be able to come back here early in time to join this last hurrah , to vote on something — goodness know what it be — just now and to speak in this valedictory debate . many hon . friend may not have be to Lesotho . the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , speak early about the importance of defend democracy . it be interesting that there be a small , close Commonwealth country friend that absolutely show love and respect for this House . the Speaker of the Lesotho Parliament say to I that , whenever he be vex by something about procedure or what he should do , he always turn to the House of Commons . it be at a different end of the planet and in another hemisphere , but so many people around the world look to this place . what we do here matter beyond our wall here , beyond our shore and beyond our constituency . it be really important that we all remember that . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I look slightly dishevel and below par today , but I spend the last 20 hour on a series of plane to get back here today . early , people promise anecdote about various trip . I be not go to give any anecdote . I be not go to talk about go to Syria with the now hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) — good grief — go to Yemen with Keith Vaz , or go to Greenland with Mr Deputy Speaker , my right hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Mr Evans ) , who be in the Chair just now ; it be probably just as well . Madam Deputy Speaker , in the 27 year you and I have serve in this House — two life sentence , as my wife constantly remind I — we have see great event ; some well than other . we have see the Iraq war , the financial crash , Brexit , covid and the transition of monarch . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and I be elect on 1 May 1997 , with 33 first - time Conservatives , I think — those of we who scrape through the battle of the 1997 election — as well as 176 first - time Labour mp and one new Ulster Unionist party Member . out of those number , today some 13 conservative remain , include you , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead , and various other . only 18 of those 176 Labour mp have survive to this day , as well as the one Ulster Unionist who be now a DUP MP , so on our side the 1997 intake be resilient , as you and I know only too well . I become an MP on 1 May , and I will cease to be an MP on 30 May next week , which happen to be my birthday . what a birthday treat that be go to be . first , I probably owe Mr Speaker an apology . I be one of the long - serve member of the naughty corner — or the rough trade corner , as it have be know — the source of much heckling , noise and verbal exercise , the source of that one famous quote at Prime Minister ' s Question Time when the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) make the rookie mistake of leave a question open - ended . he say that he have just be with his comrade in the european socialist group at the European Parliament , and guess what they say to he ? the heckle from this corner be , " who be you ? " and various other heckle besides . I apologise for the heckling and the noise over the year , but of course , during the tenure of the previous Speaker , we wear a badge of honour as member of the BBB club . it be a literal badge ; I have try to find it . that be — I hope this be in " Erskine May " — the " bollocke by Bercow " club , of which there be a league table in the Sunday Times , alongside a story about those of we who have be upbraid by the Speaker on the most occasion . it certainly be a badge of honour ; thank goodness that thing have move on and the quality of the Chair have improve hugely over the past few year . fuel by jelly baby in this corner , as well as good banter and good camaraderie , I hope — I should leave a little note — that whoever occupy the naughty corner after the election , be it on the Opposition Benches or the Government Benches , uphold the good tradition that we have try to uphold . as you and I know , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be a privilege to be in public service . it be a privilege to be a Member of Parliament , to serve this House , to serve as a Minister — for those of we who have be give that opportunity , for however fleeting a time — and to serve on Select Committees . I have be the deputy Chairman of the Home Affairs Committee for 10 year now , and those Committees be one of the great strength of this House . the Home Affairs Committee be describe by Quentin Letts as probably the good Committee in Westminster . in response to my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) and her reference to deal with Quentin Letts , I have the great advantage , because when I first arrive and he be — I think — the sketch writer on the Daily Telegraph , he and I be often mistake for each other . in those day , certainly , we look quite similar , so when he write up any reference to I , they be usually preface by " the Adonis - like Tim Loughton , the epitome of charm and handsomeness " , or whatever . try look like the people who write the column , rather than those who be write about in the column . but the great privilege , of course , be to serve one ' s constituent . as my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead have also say , and as other have echo , the first and last reference point of be an MP should be our constituent : their problem be our nation ' s problem , and we need to understand those problem if we be to provide the solution for all of our country . as many of we know — goodness know it be go to be the case this time around — the seat for which one be select be something of a lottery . indeed , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead be go to be the candidate in East Worthing and Shoreham , because the people compile the shortlist rather prefer she to I , but then she be select for Maidenhead and so the way be clear . Sussex be where I be bear , grow up and go to school . the constituency be where my relative live and where my father have go to school . to have that sort of connection to one ' s constituency be particularly special , as many hon . member have point out . it have be a joy to represent the good county in the United Kingdom as its Member of Parliament for 27 year . I be grateful to my constituent , in a constituency whose boundary have be completely unchanged , who have have the foresight to elect and re - elect I in seven election . in 1992 I pitch my tent in the soviet republic of Sheffield , Brightside — alas , I narrowly lose on the day by 22 , 500 vote due to the inclement weather — but we have all be through that . so I thank my constituent first . like everyone who have speak , I want to thank my staff , start with Fiona Chadwick , who I inherit in 1997 . she have work for Terence Higgins in Worthing and other mps in the House of Commons since the 1980 . she be part of the coven , as it be call , in the basement . she have great expertise and still work for I part time . I also thank Kari Sargeant , who have work with I and run my office since 2015 , as well as Justine , India , Ellie , Liza and other in my office . I only employ woman ; I know my place . they run a very efficient office . I have employ a number of researcher over the year , many of whom have go on to great thing . some have become millionaire ; some have become Ministers for the Cabinet Office with disgracefully large majority than I have in my constituency , as my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) will testify . I thank all my staff and the many researcher and other who have work for I over the year . I have never actually have to sack anybody , which be quite a surprise to my hon . friend . as other hon . member have do , I thank all the staff of the House who make this place tick . I will not read they all out , and I will certainly not mention the bar staff , who seem to get the big cheer from my colleague when they be mention . the staff be the unsung hero who make democracy work so that we can do our job . I thank my civil servant from my time at the Department for Education . the secret of have good civil servant be to have happy hour . at 6 o ' clock , the drink cabinet in my office be always open for those member of my private office who be still around . I do not think anyone would be allow to do that these day , but it work really well . if I have a particularly difficult subject that I want a civil servant to have a meeting with I on , I invite they during happy hour and give they a very large gin and tonic , and I always get my way . that be what good Government be actually about . as my colleague have do , I thank all the conservative party officer and volunteer who do all the work behind the scene , in all weather , which make it possible for we to get elect and do our job . Most of all — I be glad that many other hon . member have mention this — I thank our family . this be the most family - unfriendly job . it be a particular irony for I , have be the shadow Children ' s Minister for eight year and then the Children ' s Minister , that my job do not enable I to be as good a father as I would like to have be . when I be first elect in 1997 , my son Hector be under three ; Freya , the gobby one , to whom my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon be godfather , be just one ; and Tilly be minus six month . we give up so much , and our family give up so much more , to enable we to do our job . many other hon . member , include the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , who open the debate , have say that this place have change a lot and that it have change for the well , and I agree . in 1997 , the security briefing that we be give be five minute with a police officer , who give we our locker key and say , " right , Mr Loughton , you ' d well put your name on everything , ' cos crime happen in this place as well , you know . " that be the entirety of the security briefing . the only other briefing be a nice 20 - minute video from Betty Boothroyd , with wonderful vista of the river and the Palace . that be all the preparation we have . thing have move on greatly , I be glad to say . in those day , we have all - night sitting — the good place to sleep be under the table in the Strangers ' dining room . fortunately , those day have go . when I serve on my first Finance Bill Committee with my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , we have to keep the business go until 5 o ' clock in the morning . he and I spend several hour read out the southern train timetable between Worthing and Bognor Regis , and talk about related matter , to keep the Committee go . that sort of thing be a bit silly and do not happen anymore , so thing have get well . I echo the word of my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead , who say , " Don ' t want to go back into opposition . " we be both elect in 1997 . only by 1 May last year have we be in government for long than we have be in opposition for those 13 long year beforehand , and government be well . I end by urge future government on a couple of issue on which I feel strongly . I have champion , I hope , the cause of child and young people , particularly disadvantaged child in the care system . as child ' s Minister , I work on reform child in care regulation and on adoption — although , I be surprised to read in the biography of the former Prime Minister , now the Foreign Secretary , that that whole piece of work on adoption be actually his idea and only start after I leave office . but hey , that ' s politic . we should never forget that child and young people be 20 % of the population , but 100 % of our future . we lose sight of that at our peril . we have not do enough on child ' s social care . it be a false economy not to do that as early as possible and not to work on prevention rather than have to fire - fight the symptom of neglect . that be why the Best start for life programme , champion by my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , and the first 1 , 001 day , which be something I have be involve in , be so important , because it be life change if we deal with child and their parent at the beginning of their life , not later in life . future government need to remember that . the work we do on child sexual exploitation and early year be also really important . let I turn to one piece of unfinished business . I have here a copy of my private Member ' s Bill — I always carry one around — which be now the Civil Partnerships , Marriages and death ( Registration etc ) Act 2019 , of which I be very proud . it have enable more than 25 , 000 couple to have an opposite - sex civil partnership since 2019 , and have enable people get married to put the name of their mother on their marriage certificate — something that have not happen since 1837 . that may seem like a little thing , but it be bring home to I when I receive a wonderful letter from somebody I have never meet before whose daughter have just be marry in Bath in the same church where he and his late wife have be marry . he say that be able to put his late wife ' s name on the marriage certificate make such a difference , and that it be as though she be actually there , even though she be not there physically . the bit of unfinished business be section 4 , which give power to coroner to investigate stillbirth . it be as vital now as it be when that become law back in 2019 for the Government to get on with it and issue the regulation . I urge the next government to treat that as a priority . the job have change . the job , I think , have get hard . three people have be murder in my time here : Jo Cox , David Amess and the police officer Keith Palmer . social medium have make our job hard . it have divide society , and promote hate and the cancel culture . but those of we who work here — those of we who work together across the Chamber , across Committees and across all - party group — all share that devotion to public service and make the life of our constituent and our nation well , regardless of party difference . I will continue to work with friend across the political divide on other platform outside of Parliament . after 47 year as a party activist — I join at the age of 15 — eight election and 12 year on the Front Bench , I hope that I have make a bit of a difference through legislation in this place and a bit of a difference for my constituent , and that I have gain a bit of respect for what I have try to do . finally , there be an old adage that pose the conundrum : what be the difference between knowledge and wisdom ? Knowledge be know that a tomato be a fruit , not a vegetable , but wisdom be know not to put a tomato in a fruit salad . this place be full of knowledge , but I think we have see today that we be lose a lot of wisdom from this Chamber . that be a great sadness , with various colleague move on for whatever reason , but this place be a source of wisdom . when we use that wisdom wisely and with consensus across the House , we can achieve great thing , and we have . I be proud to have play a small part in that . after 14 year , I still have not work out how to write a beautiful speech . listen to my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) remind I of how eloquent he be , and he will be a sad loss to this House . my entry into politic as a wee boy from Ardrossan — you come from Paisley , Madam Deputy Speaker , so you will appreciate this — be something of an unconventional background . I be influence by the colossus that be Margaret Thatcher . I be influence by a grandmother who would shout at the television when Ted Heath be on . I be influence by a mother who would walk through picket line to get to work , because she have to work to keep a roof over her head . we be a single - parent family , and she be a grafter who always do the right thing . and I be influence by the Scottish National party councillor across the road — a woman call Marjorie Forrest , who be still alive to this day . I be influence by see election poster appear in the window , and I wonder what they be . I would see loud speaker appear on top of her car , and I wonder what they be . I think that politic and campaigning be something everyone do , because I see it in the house opposite , but I also see desperate people go to she to get help on simple matter that , for a person in desperate need , be life - change . I have carry that desire to help people with I ever since . as the many member in this Chamber know , that be not always see by the press and the medium , and we do not often share it publicly because we see people at their low , their most vulnerable , their most frightened and their most scared . we often see people when we be the last port of call and , because we be the last port of call , each and every one of we do everything we can to turn their situation around . we can all think of situation where we have do that , which make I incredibly proud . I also think of how I get here . have I follow the path of least resistance , I would have join the Labour party in Scotland because , by that time , we be down to 10 seat , and then we go down to none . but I be a Conservative , so I be my association ' s deputy chairman . I be president of Glasgow University conservative club . I fight for Michael Forsyth in Stirling in 1992 , and again in 1997 . that defeat in 1997 really hurt , and I think , " never again shall we see that . " the first seat I contest be Glasgow Govan . the saying go , " I fight Dagenham , and Dagenham fight back . " trust I , there be a thing call a Glasgow kiss that involve the forehead and no other part of the anatomy . I luckily avoid the Glasgow kiss , but I have a few close shave . the day after the election , I wake up in my hotel room at the Scottish Event Campus in Glasgow , pull back the curtain and say to mum , " that be my constituency over there . " and she say , " not any more , it ' s not . if be your constituency yesterday , but the election have be and go . you have no connection with it any more . " that be not the first time that my mother bring I back down to earth with a bang . the reality be that we build up relationship through the campaigning we do . we be identify as be the conservative candidate or the Conservative MP . we take on issue that we never otherwise would . we take on issue that we never otherwise would . we do it because of our role , but when that role get take away — as be its very nature — some of those relationship will change . that for I will be one of the thing I will find very hard . I fight Selby in 2005 , and I be suppose to win . Michael Howard even come to Selby to close the national election , and that same night Tony Blair go to Scarborough to close Labour ' s campaign ; so my advice to any candidate in the selection be to not have the Leader of the Opposition in your constituency on the eve of the poll if you be a Labour MP and think you will win or the Prime Minister if you be a Tory MP and think you will win . we gain Scarborough and we lose Selby . take it from I , sometimes candidate be well leave on your own . I fail to get reselecte for Selby . I be suppose to be fast - track and all the rest of it , but I be not . that be a painfully low point for I . my mum come into my bedroom one Saturday morning , and my duvet be over my head — I have be have my duvet over my head a lot recently — and she say , " listen , you fight two parliamentary seat . Most people never get to fight one . " those be her word of wisdom . she be try to be helpful , but I respond by say , " no , I fight two parliamentary seat and the next one I fight I be go to win . " that become my sole focus and my drive and determination . I be bless that I get Fylde , a seat that I have never be to before in my life until I apply , to be honest , but one I naturally fit with . it be a beautiful constituency and one with so much diversity . it have everything from BAE Systems , which be build the Typhoon fighter jet , to Westinghouse , which make nearly all of the UK ' s nuclear fuel , and so many other diverse business . it be also very beautiful . People look at Lytham St Annes on a map , next to Blackpool , and think it must be a challenging place , shall we say , but it be not . Madam Deputy Speaker , you have talk about your visit to the Clifton Arms Hotel in Lytham , which be certainly a very fine establishment . Lytham St Annes continue to go from strength to strength . it be not posh Blackpool , it be Lytham St Annes . there be many other fine town in the constituency . I be very proud to be able to secure regeneration money for Kirkham and see the town on the up . I have leader of the council and various other people tell I multiple time that the M55 link road would never happen — that it be too complicated , that there be just too many different funding pot that keep flood about . I say , " I will get that link road build . " it nearly kill I . it take I 10 year . but that link road be open next month . it be something that other find too complicated , too boring or too detailed , but that be my legacy , because sometimes boring and detailed be what make the wheel turn . so when people drive over that M55 link road , just spare a little thought for I . the timing of my departure , unlike for some people , be not entirely of my choosing . there be much work I intend to carry on . I say to whoever succeed I that I will stay out of their way or I will give advice — it be entirely up to they . that apply to whether that person be from my party or another . when I become a Member of Parliament , I get no support from my predecessor , to be frank . I come in here one night , feel like Cinderella . I have three big bag and have be invite to a reception — the first of many — but I be sit up in a Committee Room with three giant sack of mail . the only reason I know I have mail be that I see people come in with these green envelope . I go down to the post office that use to be down here and say , " have I get any mail by any chance ? " he say , " oh yes , Mr Menzies , you have a lot of mail . " when I ask how much , he say , " this much " , and there be three sack . I be set up there open it all , so I know what it feel like at the start . my advice to any new Member start be to find that mail as soon as you can . we have talk about campaign and the thing we have secure , and we have talk about casework . as other member have say , the people who deliver that be our parliamentary staff . I have be bless to have have some of the most outstanding and loyal people over the last 14 year , which I appreciate now more than ever . Shirley have be my office manager from day one , and Adam have be with I for the last five year . I also have Liam , Roger Small and Max Smith . they be the team who go out day in , day out , do the detailed work and make I look good . they allow I to go on foreign trip or do stuff on a Select Committee while casework be be do . when I have be look after my mum , they have allow I not to be here while casework be be do . some of my early staff be now earn multiple time what I earn . maybe that be because I recruit bright , talented people , or maybe it be just because mp be not destine to earn a lot of money , but the one thing that be sure be that all my staff will be earn a lot more money than I will be in a few week ' time , even the most junior member . with that in mind , I have to think about look to the future . I say to my staff : you be brilliant people . whatever you go on to do , people will be very lucky to have you . we , too , be lucky to have the people who support we in our role , be they the Doorkeepers , who be incredibly polite and who know more about what be go on in this place than anyone else , or the people who work in the Tea Room and keep we feed . I think back to the horrible day when PC Keith Palmer be murder during the terrorist attack on Westminster bridge . my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) and I leave Parliament and get to the rope line at Lambeth bridge . Gladys , the elderly lady who work in the Tea Room , be wait behind the rope line , because she want to make sure that her member be okay . that be the level of dedication . it be not about make bit of toast ; it be about care . my goodness , the staff of this House care . I would like to point out that the people who work in health and wellbeing , which be not always talk about and which , until recently , be not as good as it should have be for member , have help many people , include I . the pressure on MPs be extraordinary , regardless of whether it come from the long hour , be away from family , the demand on we or social medium . that pressure be huge , so I urge the parliamentary authority to keep invest in health and wellbeing , and to look after mps , be they those who be currently serve or those who will come into this House after the next election . they should be nurture and cherish , because they be people who want to do good , but they be also fragile soul . in my time here , I have never be a Minister . I start off by be a PPS . my first Minister get sack and my second Minister get sack , so when I be appoint as Sir Alan Duncan ' s pps , he be frightened , because my track record be not a good one . where I come into my own be be a trade envoy . again , my advice to colleague come into Parliament after the next election be that you should sometimes be polite , but also know when to stamp your foot , because occasionally — just occasionally — the squeaky wheel get oil . it be after the 2017 election that I think , " stuff this . I want to be do something . " so I create merry hell about my desire to become a trade envoy . to be fair , the right hon . member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) phone I up the next day and say , " I know you want to be trade envoy for Argentina , but we ' re go to appoint you trade envoy for Colombia , Peru and Chile . how do you feel about that ? " I bite his hand off . Argentina be then add a year later . I have serve as trade envoy for seven year . at the time of Brexit and huge change in this country , it be something that be incredibly relevant , and I feel really privileged to be out there bat for british business , sometimes really small business . when I be in Colombia in February , we be help a cheese supplier from the constituency of Mr Deputy Speaker , the right hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Mr Evans ) , to enter the colombian market . that be a small supplier enter the global stage as a result of what we do . as trade envoy , I secure the large ever infrastructure deal in Latin America . I be the chairman of the UK - Peru infrastructure taskforce and we secure a £ 1 . 7 billion infrastructure deal , the large in live memory . with the help of Sir Mark Kent , who be now the chief executive of the Scotch Whisky Association , we also get Argentina to unilaterally drop its whisky tariff , boost Scotch export . expert — we should always be careful of expert — tell I that that would not happen . they have be work on it for year and they think Argentina would want something in return . sometimes you draw on your past experience , and my experience of work in retail be that sometimes you put forward a simple offer or a simple ask and you make they see that the number stack up . we do that and , three week later , Argentina sign the unilateral dropping of Scotch whisky tariff . my advice to people be , " if someone tell you something be too difficult or complicated , don ' t believe they . " some of the good advice I get in my early day as an MP be , " be kind to the House and the House will be kind to you . " I have see people who on occasion have not be kind to the House fall by the wayside . my dear friend Sir David Amess , whom I miss terribly to this day , be incredibly kind to I . I would go and see he , often daily , and we would chat thing over . he be always there as a stalwart support . he say to I , " Don ' t try and be too clever ; never be too political , because sometimes that boot will be kick your backside . " he be right . sometimes we hold strongly different view , not just from Opposition Members but from those on our own side — take Brexit , for example — but there be much more that unite we than divide we . I will try to bring my comment to some sort of natural conclusion — this be where I wish I have allow Adam to write my speech . the one thing that have keep I go be the privilege of serve Fylde . my constituent be fantastic , kind , Lancashire people who want the good for their community . I always strove to deliver that for they . the Fylde that I leave behind be a well Fylde than I inherit . many people will be able to say that about their respective constituency . I would also like to thank the people who take I on the many trip over the year . I be once accuse by the medium of be the second most travelled MP in Parliament . I object strongly from Gibraltar . a lot of the travel I do — my trade envoy work and my Inter - Parliamentary Union work , for example — be not something that would appear on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in actual fact , I get more than my fair share of trip . as a result , I become a more rounded and well - balanced Member of Parliament . it allow I to see a broad view . I thank Sir Mark Kent , whom I meet in Argentina , who be now chairman of the Scotch Whisky Association , for allow I to see how top - quality ambassador work . I thank people such as his Royal Highness Prince Sultan and Prince Khalid at the saudi embassy for open my eye to a country that I know nothing about but which my constituency depend on for job . I have more people work in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia than any other Member in this House because of the aerospace defence relationship . I also thank the Inter - Parliamentary Union for open my eye to some of the most interesting thing in the world . anyone who have ever be on an IPU or Commonwealth Parliamentary Association trip will always come away much well informed . Rick Nimmo , Dominique Rees and the team have do tremendous work in that field . for the last seven year , I serve as chairman of both the all - party parliamentary group on Latin America and the APPG on Saudi Arabia . that be something on which I feel fulfilled leave this House . I have also spend time on Select Committees . I join the Transport Committee think we be go to get lot of travel , but the furth we get be Vauxhall bridge to check vehicle emission , and that be after two and a half year . we do travel , though , with the International Development Committee , with my right hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley , and I also go to New York with some great people on the Scottish Affairs Committee a few week ago . we be fly the flag for the UK . it have be the great honour of my life to serve in this place . the wee boy from Ardrossan , where people tell I when I be grow up , " just don ' t get carry away . if you ever become a councillor , you ' re do well . People like you don ' t become mps . " my mum work in an explosive factory for 32 year and be a member of a trade union . she be widow a month before I be bear and bring I up on her own . " People like that don ' t have son who become conservative mps . " well , I do and I have . I have serve this place well , I think , for the last 14 year . I will miss it terribly . I do intend to be one of the sad git walk around with an orange pass , so you have not see the last of I . I also want to say that I would not have be here without my family , and my family be my mother . she encourage I when I be grow up , and she encourage I when the chip be down . over the last three year , she have be in hospital 38 time . she have almost die five time and officially be put on end of life twice . she be 89 but she be still go strong . if my mum can cope with all that , get through adversity and demonstrate what true resilience look like , so too can I . I do not know what the future hold for I , but I be optimistic , because the experience and friendship that I have earn in this place will do nothing but stand I in good stead . some thing I would change , for sure , but the majority of it I would not . it have be an honour and a privilege . you be my friend ; you be my family . I will miss you , but I will see you around . thank you very much , and God bless . I shall be brief , mainly because I have to leave shortly to collect my son from nursery . like many other member here , I want to start with thank to family . the immense patience of my wife over the past 14 year with my career in politic have be something to behold , but my mother have deal with 45 year of have a husband or son as Member of Parliament for Worcester . she have do immense service to the constituency and to our country from the way she support my father , and she have be an inspiration to I . I want to very briefly talk about my passion for education . I make my maiden speech on the importance of education . it be great to hear from my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) and , indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Stephen Hammond ) , who speak about what we have be able to do as a Government for education . I have be bang on about school funding for my entire time in Parliament . it be a deeply nerdy subject , but it be vital , and colleague on both side of the House have engage in the debate . we have make some real stride , but there be much more to do . I point to recommendation of the Education Committee with regard to properly fund the work of teach assistant in school as a key objective for the next Parliament . we have have some great debate with contribution from member on both side of the House about the importance of meet special educational need ; the House pass some fantastic legislation in 2014 but it have not achieve its objective , and weneed to ensure that those need be well fund in the future . I have be honour to chair the Education Committee for the last year or so . I pay tribute — as have everyone else — to all the staff in the House , but I pay particular tribute to the Clerks of our Select Committees , who work incredibly hard behind the scene to ensure that we can produce great recommendation on a cross - party basis . they help I to produce a report just last week ; I have it here , and I commend it to the House . give some of the comment that we have hear from hon . member in all part of the House about the challenge of social medium , I be delighted that we be able to hold a meeting yesterday in the Reasons Room , where the brilliant hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) be able to deliver cross - party support for our report on screen time . I seriously recommend that the next Government , from whatever side they come , engage with the recommendation of that report to well protect our child from the peril of social medium . I think there be real concern about that across all party in the House , and there be stride that can be make . let I end by thank my constituent in Worcester for give I the privilege of my life by enable I to serve such a wonderful constituency , and thank colleague across the House for be such great friend . alas , we find ourselves here . I never think I would be speak for the last time in this Chamber , let alone do so under the age of 30 . indeed , I never think I would even make it here before the age of 30 . my former boss , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , often say that I make he feel exceptionally old because his former intern have not only make it to Parliament , but be retire before he . my thank go to he for all the wisdom that he have pass on over the year . there be an irony , be there not , in stand up in a place where word be of paramount importance , and then find it difficult to find word to express the bittersweet nature not only of have serve in this place , but of leave this place . so many people have say today that be a Member of Parliament be an honour . that be one of the most horrendously clich é d word we can use but also one of the truest , because it be an honour and it be a privilege . as mps , we have the opportunity to really make a difference — to make a difference to the individual we help through casework and the family whose life we touch day in , day out ; to make a difference to whole community ; and , of course , to make a difference to our entire country . I think we all know , if we search deep down , that the reason we want to be here be that we want to make a difference , and to try to make the world a well place . I say that not just of colleague on this side of the House but of those right across it , because I think we be all unite in have come here with good intention . however , this be also a huge responsibility . you stand up every day and have to search your soul to do what be right . sometimes it be easy to know which way you will vote , but at other time it be very difficult , especially when you find yourself on the opposite side of the argument to friend , family , colleague and many constituent — although your constituent will definitely be the one to let you know when you be on the opposite side to they . ultimately , we all have to look ourselves in the mirror and know that we have make the right decision . I have be proud of most of the decision I have make in this place , although I think we can all say that we be human and have make mistake , and there may be thing that we would change . I have use the word " I " a lot already , and I shall probably use it a lot more , but so many colleague have express the sentiment that this be not a single - man sport but a team sport . I would not have be able to achieve anything in this place — and I mean anything — without my incredible team : Joanne Howey , Niki Trotter , James Middleton , and the two who be up in the Public Gallery , Jack Bell and Ellie Varley . I be an only child — I have never have sibling — but through do this job and hire those two incredible people up in the Gallery , I have gain a brother and sister . they be not get rid of I just yet — or if they be , it be only as a boss , never as a sibling . we have achieve some incredible thing here , but what make I proud on a national level be the awareness that my team and I have manage to bring to the issue of one - punch assault . only last week I be here in the Chamber make an emotional speech — one of the few emotional speech I have make ; I be tear up a little — not expect to have to make another for a while . I talk about the impact of my dad ' s death through a single punch , how that have motivate I , and all the work that I have do and the incredible people I have meet — those at one Punch UK , and other family campaign to improve awareness and improve the outcome for victim . I secure some brilliant commitment from the Government , which be now a laugh , isn ' t it , give that I will have to have to fight the next government to make sure that they carry those over ? they can rest assure that I will not be off their back until I get those commitment honour , once the election have pass . I thank all the activist and local volunteer who put in so much effort to help I get to this place . I particularly thank Councillor Richard Bell , the conservative group leader in Durham . he be also now deputy leader of the council , because back in 2021 , through a massive effort from all our volunteer and activist , we secure the massive feat of knock Labour out of power in Durham for the first time in more than 100 year . Richard Bell serve in that role brilliantly , as do all the new councillor who be also elect . I thank the three chairman I have serve under in Bishop Auckland : Ted Henderson , Philip Leech , and Luke Allan Holmes , who , at the ripe old age of 21 , be stand for City of Durham at this general election . of course , I wish he well in that . so many colleague have say this , but my big thank have to go to my constituent , the brilliant people of the Bishop Auckland constituency , who put their faith in I . I be a young woman who be not even from the county , but they put their faith in I as a Conservative ; this be the first time they have elect a Conservative Member of Parliament since the seat be create in 1885 . I be so grateful to each and every one of the 24 , 067 people who put their cross in the box next to my name . I could tell so many tale , but I will not now . all I will say be that in meet so many constituent over the year , I have have move experience and incredibly supportive conversation . there have be a lot fun , as well as a lot of heated debate at point . I be particularly grateful to those constituent who may not have agree with I or some of the decision I have make , but who have handle all the communication and the debate well , and with respect . this place be such an adventure . I do not just mean get lose in my first few week here , when I would accidently find myself in the kitchen or on a rooftop where I be not suppose to be . I find be here as a young woman particularly funny , because mine be not the face of a traditional MP , as most people like to point out . I have be quiz so many time on whether I be an intern or here on work experience . now that I be 30 , I find it incredibly brilliant to know that I still have a youthful face . even today , on my final day in this place , I be quiz by security when I be go out on the Terrace with my lunch . they ask , " excuse I , madam , do you have a parliamentary pass ? " it be wonderful that our security be do their job so diligently . it be also nice to know that I have clearly make a substantial impact in my four and a half year here ! like so many colleague , I must pay tribute to all the staff in this place , because they be nothing short of exemplary . the service they offer we to make sure that the wheel of democracy keep move be second to none . I will always remember one of my first interaction with the brilliant Doorkeeper Wayne , who take I on a tour on my first day . I remember walk through those door , and my eye light up as I wander into the Chamber on a Sunday evening , wear a t - shirt , bovver boot and a woolly hat . I say , " oh my gosh , I be in here . " I be stand by the Opposition Benches , as I have not get my bearing and do not know which side be which at that point . like a schoolgirl , I ask , " be I allow to sit on these Benches now ? " he say , " Madam , the Benches be yours now ; of course you can . " that memory will stay with I right until my final day . I must say thank you to all the Doorkeepers ; the catering team ; Anthony and Richard in the Strangers ' bar for always let I know when the new cider be come in — they know I well — all the team at the Speaker ' s Office ; the Speaker and the entire Deputy Speakers team ; the Clerks ; those in the Public Bill Office ; security ; and the cleaner . I have probably forget lot of people , but a huge thank you to everyone who make the wheel of this place turn . I be surprised that no one have mention they yet , but I must also say thank you to Kelly and Jackie downstairs , for help to keep so many of we look tame . you can not tame this mop of mine , but they do their good . I be so grateful to they , not just for make my hair look swish , but for the friendship they have offer over the year and the service and dedication they have offer to so many member from across the House . this be an incredible workplace , but it be not just a workplace ; it be like a huge family . I do a short spell as a Minister . I manage a year , which be more than a lot of colleague have do , give how tumultuous it have be in recent time . let I pay a small tribute once more to the brilliant team at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities for all their support — to the private office , and all the civil servant who work so well with I , give I honest advice and challenge I at time , when that challenge be reasonable . ultimately , they be serve the people of this country to make its community the good they can be . of course , I come back to colleague ; they make this place . it be about come in every morning and see colleague , sometimes smile and sometimes with grumpy face , and know that we be one team — comrade — here to make this country the good it can be . there be too many memory to share , and I do not want to name too many individual for fear of offend other , but I pay tribute to the man sit right beside I , my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) . I have fond memory of our first rebellion together — the first of not too many , colleague will be pleased to know . we basically egg each other on , and admit only once we be out of the voting Lobby , " I wasn ' t go to do it if you weren ' t ! " to the Whips , I be sincerely sorry for that , but I have no regret about share that special memory with one of my close friend . I genuinely wish all colleague — whether they be depart , by choice or not , or stay in this place — the good of luck for whatever come next . give the breadth of talent right across the Benches , Members will go on to bright and well thing and will continue to play their part in serve the country and make the life of individual and community well , every step of the way . this place sometimes feel a bit like battle . certainly , the bit that we see on tv — the Punch and Judy of Prime Minister ' s question — look like battle , but there be also the battle of idea , in which we often fight so well and so constructively , even when we disagree . I think back to the battle against covid , when this House really come together in the good possible way , fight not among ourselves but that horrendous pandemic , to keep our constituent safe . if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I must quote Taylor Swift just once in this speech . this be to colleague of all rosette colour : in the battle that we have face together , " I have the time of my life fight dragon with you . " I thank they for pick up their sword and fight so diligently . I do not anticipate that my time here would be so short . as I say , I do not anticipate be here so soon — I think that it would be in 10 year ' time , if I ever make it at all . leave here mean that I can now fulfil my key responsibility , towards my friend and family . I regret to say that I have probably neglect they a little over the past four and a half year . we all know how intense and all - consume this place can be , and that our friend and family deal with it the most — they deal with the backlash , with our grump when we come home after late - night vote , and with see all the vitriol that we get on social medium . in many way , it impact they more than it do we . I thank my wonderful dad , who be no long with we but inspire I to make it to this place ; my late nan , who inspire I to be the sort of strong , independent woman who I always aspire to be , who could make it here to Parliament ; and my mum , who be tune in somewhere on the airwave , I hope . the person I need to thank most of all be my absolutely brilliant , inspire and dazzle partner Tony , who ensure that when I get home from a late - night vote , there be food on the table , and who pick I up and really light I up on my dark day , and make I want to be the good I can be . I be look forward to join he on his next adventure . colleague , thank you , and good of luck for whatever come next . it be a pleasure to follow my dear and hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) . it have be the honour of my life to serve as Colchester ' s Member of Parliament for the past nine year , the last four and a half of which I have be a Government Minister at the Department for Work and Pensions , the Department for Education and the Department of Health and Social Care . I put on the record my sincere thank to my superb , hard - work constituency team , the brilliant civil servant with whom I have have the pleasure of working , my local conservative association , and all those who have support I in so many way over many year . together — I genuinely mean together — we have achieve so much . locally , our work have include deal with over 70 , 000 case on behalf of local resident on a wide range of issue ; secure £ 40 million of Government town deal and levelling - up funding to regenerate our city ; get over £ 75 million of investment into Colchester Hospital , include for an upgrade accident and emergency department and a new orthopaedic surgical centre ; get multimillion - pound investment in the art and in road and rail infrastructure ; and secure city status for Colchester . Britain ' s first capital city under the Romans be a city once more . nationally , our work include all war grave now fall under the Commonwealth War Graves Commission in perpetuity ; the tampon tax fund , which lead to funding of over £ 86 million go to support woman ' s health charity ; establish the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss ; introduce groundbreake parental bereavement leave legislation ; help to create the household support fund , which have make over £ 2 . 5 billion available for family in need ; introduce reform to childcare , child ' s social care and provision for special educational need and disability ; work alongside brilliant NHS staff to reduce waiting list and improve urgent and emergency care ; and cement the UK ' s status as a life science superpower . this job , for all its challenge , have give I the opportunity to bring about change and make a difference . I feel deeply honour to have be able to work to improve life chance for child , in particular . of course , I be sad to be leave Parliament and politic today . despite know that it be without doubt the right decision for I and my family , there be much that I will miss about serve as Colchester ' s Member of Parliament , not least have the opportunity to meet and help so many local resident and to work with parliamentary colleague on both side of the House . I will conclude with a handful more thank - yous : to all the staff and security here at the Houses of Parliament ; to my wonderful , supportive family , without whom , frankly , I would not have be able to do this job — especially my wife , Elinor ; and , last but by no mean least , to the people of Colchester . I thank they for elect I , for put their trust in I , and for give I the opportunity to serve they in the good job in the world . I wish my successor all the very good . may I first express my sadness that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be also stand down from the coterie of Essex mps ? I thank you for your part in recognise the talent of a young James Duddridge in Melton Mowbray , and rubber - stamp , over a glass of white wine , my aim to serve as a Member of Parliament . comrade , time fly in this place . I remember , in 2004 , have round my kitchen table Ian Robertson , my chairman , who be a great sage ; the late Tony Smithson , who be my first agent ; and Tony Cox , who be now leader of the council . I say , " I ' m really ready for the general election . " we name it five - five - five , because we predict , a year in advance , the date of the election — at that time , it be not that difficult to predict . they say , " a year will go quickly , " but 20 year have now pass , which be amazing . I want to thank the people who select I and elect I . I must have be do something right , because at each election , more people have vote for I than at the previous election . I jot down a few bit of advice , but when I re - read they after hear former Prime Minister talk about democracy and a former Secretary of State talk about defence and defence spending , they seem a little low - level . this be my advice anyway . let someone else manage your bloody email . it be absolutely dreadful and drive I mad . eat less , and perhaps more importantly , drink less . join the armed force parliamentary scheme , which be absolutely amazing and superb for find out about colleague and the service . value family over politic , and do not covet other ' success ; help they achieve that success . my team have be fantastic . Pindie Fanibe run my office . I call she the boss ; every now and again , I be allow to make a decision . Marcus Llewelyn - Bowen — sorry , Llewellyn - Rothschild ; that be a freudian slip . he be very flamboyant , my Marcus . he be register blind and he go into hospital every other day for dialysis , but he still carry on as my caseworker . he be absolutely amazing . before I , he serve another Member of Parliament . I thank James Moyies , who be an exceptional individual . he stand against I twice as the UKIP candidate , but then become my agent and be now my employee . I be sure he will carry on . I also thank Sam Pettengall , who I hope to see leave politic and join the Royal Navy , certainly as a reserve , and Cheryll Gardiner , whose son Luke will hopefully come to this place as a Derbyshire Member of Parliament . on my hon . friend ' s point about loyalty to he , today in the Chamber we have speak a lot about how important it be for woman to come to this place , but woman do not come to this place without good man behind they . this will do nothing for your reputation , but you be the good man who bring I into this place . I know that you may sometimes regret it , but there be few people in this world who meet a young woman twice , each time for less than half an hour , and then , when an election be announce , move they into their house the next day — open their home to they — and put their entire life aside to fight every day for that person . it be no surprise that you have such loyalty from your team , because your heart be so enormous , and without you , I would not be here . I be so grateful to you , and to Katy and your kid , who allow that to happen . you be a phenomenal man , and I will very much miss you in this place . you be not go to make I cry . I thank my hon . friend , and I do think we need to change whom we elect as candidate . for a number of reason , I hope I be replace by a woman in Rochford and Southend East — or Southend East and Rochford , as it be now call . I would like to mention Lucy Paton - Brown , who be with I for 10 year and be absolutely fabulous , and Philippa Buckley , who be now in Zambia but do a great job for I . I also want to mention my wife , because she work for I , and also because I would get in trouble if I do not mention she . we have three lovely child , and I be go to spend more time look after our new arrival , the one - year - old . it happen to be a Labrador dog , which be prove to be much hard than the child . I would not recommend come to this place — and it be the good job in the world . I have no regret . I serve 19 year , include nine year on the Front Bench in five different department under three Prime Ministers . I particularly enjoy the camaraderie of the Whips Office . at one point , I hold the title of the most sack Minister in the Conservative Government ; I like to think of it as the most reappointable Minister in troubled time , but other may disagree . I be the Minister that take through the withdrawal Act , have vote three time against that as a Bill , have never vote against the Government before . I be particularly proud of my time as Minister for Africa , something I get to do twice , build on my previous work as a banker in Africa . that be something I would very much like to do . I think I be go to do at least another 10 year . that be not the right thing for I now , but it have be brilliant . I look at everyone , or I would look at everyone if I have keep my glass on , and I can think of a moment of joy with they , a moment of sadness , an embarrassing moment , a — Revelation . a revelation — I thank my right hon . friend . it have be absolutely superb . I will miss this place , and I say thank you to everyone who have serve — in the broad way — this House . just before I call the next hon . Gentleman , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton make an impassione intervention — a correct one , make an excellent point — but she keep refer to the hon . gentleman as " you " . this upset I so much . I can not let it go , because what if , when I be not here — which will be very soon — nobody bother ? what if we descend into just an ordinary place , where people use first name , nickname , " you " , or sloppy language , and wear white trainer ? it just would not be right . this be a very special place , and the fact that we call each other " the hon . member " and use the third person and not the second person be part of the way that we do thing here , with dignity and precision and by step back from the personal . I appreciate that what the hon . Lady have just say be personal , and this be a personal debate . there be nothing wrong with that , but in debate about political topic , it be very important to keep the personal out of it and stick to the fact . that be why it be so important that we respect the rule of speak through the Chair and refer to people , not as " you " , but as the hon . Gentleman or the hon . Lady . I simply can not miss my last opportunity to say that , and I so hope it will not be forget . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to catch your eye for what will be the last time in my 23 year in this place . like all member who have speak in this wonderful debate , it be go to be a great wrench to leave the House . the only person who may have a slight skip in his step be Mr Speaker , who will no long have to consider the many application for urgent question that I have submit over the year . it have be a wonderful time and , as briefly as I can , I want to thank all those who have make it possible . as all other hon . member have do , I want to thank everybody who work here . little do they realise , but they be support a great parliamentary system . I want to thank the Doorkeepers , the caterer , the security staff and the Librarians — I want to thank everybody who work here , without exception . they keep the show on the road . every single one of they support our great parliamentary system . we thank they for that . reflect for a moment , I suggest that much have change since I join the House in 2001 and almost all for the well . for a start , the hour be much more family - friendly . as a green MP in 2001 , there be no briefing . my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) basically make the point that we be throw into the Chamber — I would not say literally — and tell to get on with it and learn . thing have also change for the well in that we have many more lady mp , which have be a great improvement to the House . thing have change for the well , but what have not change for the well have be a narrative that have grow strong in recent time and in certain quarter that our parliamentary system be break and not perform as it should . I would contend that that be not true . while I accept that it be not perfect , I do believe that it be representative and effective , and be respect around the world . for example , it manage to contain the Brexit debate — probably the most passionate debate that we have have in a generation — and channel it accordingly in an open way that I think few other country could have pull off . this Chamber remain the crucible where the matter of the day be debate and resolve . its fulcrum be the obligation that we all tell the truth in this place . we should never forget that mps can still effect great change . I , like other colleague , look back with fondness and satisfaction at the campaign and good cause that I have participate in , whether campaign for our 2015 manifesto to contain the promise of an EU referendum , against arm the syrian rebel , for official recognition and support of our nuclear test veteran , great funding for the British Council , or secure a focus on outcome when it come to cancer , as be embody in section 5 of the Health and Care Act 2022 . I thank all colleague — many of they be in their place — who support that effort . of course one have not always be successful ; none of we be . we can all list our somewhat disappointment . I oppose our Iraq , Libya and Afghanistan intervention and , despite the passionate debate that we have on those occasion , we still intervene . it be another sadness to I that we do not manage to do more at the time to get the Government to think again about defence cut . my amendment in 2019 on the Northern Ireland backstop be defeat by the large record parliamentary majority in history : 600 to 24 . it be still fresh in the mind . I remind colleague that one just have to keep go on . perseverance have a quality all of its own and my goodness I , there be time in those year when we need it . I have hear so many interesting speech in the Chamber this afternoon , and it have be a real pleasure to be part of this debate , but I would suggest to colleague that humility be also a great quality . we should never forget that . I be remind of that recently by my constituency team , who put it to I that , in all the election I have fight since 2001 , the less time I spend in the constituency , the more my majority go up . indeed , that be true : I have have an increase majority in every single general election . I will not say that I be not a very diligent constituency MP , but perhaps — perhaps — I have ease off just a little bit since 2001 . overall , I would say that , with hard work and perseverance and by garner support when need , mp can still effect change and truly help their constituent , occasionally with the help of the occupant of the Chair — as you well know , Mr Speaker . it be nice to see you in your place ; and now that you be here , may I thank you personally for everything you do for this place ? you be the guardian of something very precious in that Chair , and your presence there have be a real source of strength and support for member across the House in make sure that our parliamentary system remain true to itself and do not meander . thank you very much indeed , Mr Speaker . I have enjoy my time on Select Committees and all - party group , which be where we see the good of cross - party work . that be something we all value in this place . I concur with the many observation make by colleague that we be at our very good if we can foster consensus across the divide and move an issue forward . like many other , I have certainly benefit from cross - party consensus , when we have be able to engineer it . I come back to the effectiveness of this place and the minority of individual , increasingly noisy though they be , who say that this place be break or not effective , or that it need to be improve because it do not represent its constituent . that view be completely wrong , and I say that as somebody who have be in this place for 23 year — and there be colleague who have be here much long than I . this place be effective , and we should remember that . I would therefore caution against ill thought - through , sweeping reform , which will harm our democracy . past innovation , such as the fixed - term Parliaments Act 2011 , have serve to highlight the wisdom of convention , I would suggest . we should be wary of talk of , for example , a write constitution , proportional representation or House of Lords reform . we should be careful what we wish for . we be here courtesy of the accumulate wisdom of previous generation . we discard that experience and wisdom at our peril if we do not consider thing very carefully . I wish all colleague well , past and present , and I wish those stay on good fortune in the next Parliament . I will certainly be keep in touch with many friend . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , a very good friend , have be sit next to I for most of this debate , although he have have to go , and there be many other colleague here who I look forward to keep in touch with after I leave . naturally , I would like to thank my constituency association , along with councillor , activist and the many friend I have make in the constituency , for their contribution and friendship over so many year . the association stand by I on a number of occasion when I do not always agree with my party . the close I come to be remove as an MP be in 2003 . it be not an election year , but there be an extraordinary general meeting to — I be go to say " to deselect I " , which I think be what it be in effect , because of the way I vote on the Iraq war . opinion be very divided , as colleague may remember — I see my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Mr Bacon ) , a good friend , sit on the Bench at the front , who will remember that moment . have vote against my Whip , I have to resign from the Front Bench . that cause a stir in the association , but we get through it , and since then I have have no issue at all with my association over not always agree — or not agree , I should say — with our intervention in Libya or Afghanistan , post 2001 . the association understand that mp be representative , not delegate . I would like to thank my constituent for their support , and for ensure that I win increase majority over the year . I be go to stay connected to my wonderful constituency of Basildon and Billericay , which it have be a great honour to serve , by participate in the annual fun walk — it be now a charity — that I found in 2002 . since then , it have raise around £ 1 . 5 million for good cause across the constituency and beyond . I may be step down as the MP , but I will certainly stay connected to the local area by stay involve with that charity event as chair of the trustee . I would like to thank my staff , to whom I owe so much . my constituency team — Jo Turner and Annie Akinin — have be with I since I become an MP . my London team — Claire Lumby , Selina Short and Benjamin Yates , who be sit in the Gallery — have be with I for up to 16 year . they have 80 year of service between they , which be a rarity in this place , and my constituent have benefit as a result . I be very grateful to they , and I be proud of they for everything we have achieve together . finally , I would like to thank my wife Thalia , my daughter and my wide family — whether they be still with we or not — for their support over the year . it have always add perspective and balance to my endeavour in this place , which I shall miss . it have be a great honour to serve , but the time have come to move on , and I wish you all well . I have one remain message for my party : please stay wed to the centre ground when fight general election . I be an old - fashioned , one nation Tory , and compassionate conservatism be the way forward . I do not want we to wander off to the right — I do not think we be go to — because we must stay centred . deliver economic efficiency , strong finance , robust economy and all the rest of it be not an end in itself ; it be a means to help the less fortunate in society , and we have to remain wed to that idea . the Prime Minister understand this , and I wish he well at the next general election . it be nice to see you in the Chair , Mr Speaker . thank you for all your service , and for the kindness that you have show I since you have be in the Chair . when I be in my early teen , I have a day out in London . I send my parent a postcard of this building and , rather arrogantly and presumptuously , I write on the back , " my future office " . I have forget all about it , but when my father pass away just a few day after the last general election , I find that postcard in his house . I guess the dream come true , and they keep it for all those year . I have win four general election , and I will be the first and last MP for Winchester and Chandler ' s Ford , because the boundary change will break up the constituency . I have say from the very start that nobody own Winchester . I would like to think that I win the seat because I work so hard to get it , and I would like to think that I keep it because I do the job to the good of my ability every single day . equally , nobody own the key to no . 10 Downing Street . the future have not be write yet and , contrary to what people may read , this election be not over . like many colleague , I wish my conservative friend stand on 4 July the very good , especially my right hon . friend the Prime Minister , who be a hard - work , decent man . we be very lucky to have he as our country ' s leader . I will not detain the House , but I want to reflect on two thing and to thank people . for I , just be an MP be enough — it be clearly a mission of mine from a very young age . I work with my right hon . friend the Member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) as his PPS in the then Department for Health , and I have be a Government Whip , which be the only team game in this place . I have be a Health Minister , and now I chair the Health and Social Care Committee . it be record of which I be proud . as the Health Minister , I begin what would become know as Pharmacy First and I write the cancer plan , so it be appropriate that I should follow the hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) . we urgently need a new cancer plan from the next Government . I establish the HIV Commission alongside the shadow Health Secretary . we work to produce the road map to get England to zero new transmission by 2030 , and we will do so . I extend the human papillomavirus vaccine to boy , which be not something that my teenage son thank I for , give that he have to have it the other day . that may seem a small and technical change , but I know that it will save ten of thousand of life . soon rather than later , we will eradicate cervical cancer from our country . clearly , there be so much more . over a good number of year in Government , we do so much and , frankly , I can not remember the half of it . work alongside two secretary of State — the current Chancellor , whom I have just mention , and my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) — I think we do some good thing . I be so grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who speak at the very start of this debate many hour ago , who as Prime Minister ask I to serve in her government . of course , be elect Chair of the Health Committee be a huge honour , and I have work with some fabulous official and fabulous member across party line — which be the great secret of this place — to produce some really important report on prevention , assist dying , dentistry , digital , integrate care system and pharmacy . I think they will stand the test of time . I can not let this moment go without mention the armed force parliamentary scheme , which have just be mention . among all the amazing experience I have have here , it be one of the good thing I have do . I recommend it highly to return and new member . I have a few important thank - yous to my staff of the present — Alice Hammond , Toby Colehan , Alex Pinney and Helen Hill — and of the past , especially Russ Norton and Janette Munro Ford , without whom I would never have win in the first place . obviously , like everyone , I thank the good people of Winchester and Chandler ' s Ford for give I four in a row . thank you so much . it have be a great privilege to represent you , and I have always do my good to put the constituency first . of course , I thank my wife Susie and my child Emily and William , who allow I to do this in the first place . finally , to repeat something I say in the House a few day ago , there be a maxim that I try to live by in my life and that I have certainly try to live by in the House of Commons , and I hope that those come after I will too : it be nice to be important , but it be much , much more important to be nice . Mr Speaker , I be delighted that you have come back into the Chamber , because it give I an opportunity to start by say how delighted I be that your team and my team will be in the Challenge cup final in a few day ' time . I know that your father , in particular , would have be delighted in the Wire take on the Wigan Warriors . I have be incredibly humble this afternoon to sit here among colleague , friend and people I remember watch on tv when I be not a lot small than I be now . they have be truly fantastic servant to this House . I feel that I be a bit of a fraud , really , because I have only be here for four and a half year . it be a remarkable place . I listen with great interest and genuine fondness to the reference make to the cross - party support and camaraderie that exist in this place . there be a wonderful spirit that occur every day when people come to work in this magnificent place . I be regularly stop in the Warrington South constituency by constituent who ask , " what ' s it like to be an MP ? what do it feel like ? " I can genuinely say that it be the proud thing that anybody can do . every day when I walk into this Palace and walk past the statute of great people of our history , I remember that I be here serve the people who have elect I : the 86 , 000 people I represent in the Warrington South constituency . as I have only be here for four and a half year , I will keep my remark relatively short . I want to go back to before I be elect , because I have never plan to get into politic . in fact , I take the view that , have spend 20 - odd year in business , if I get into politic I would probably never get anything do . but that be not the case . you can make a difference . you have to focus your energy and you have to be certain about what you want to achieve . I have look back over the past four and a half year at the work that this Government have deliver for my constituent , and at the work that I have do to ensure that the people I represent have well life , and I be incredibly proud . we focus on improve access to public transport , and we have 105 new zero - emission bus in Warrington , pay for by this Government . I be incredibly proud that people in Warrington travel on public transport at level not see for many year . we have also focus on healthcare and broadband , and secure a broadband service for the people of Higher Walton have be an incredible achievement . we have campaign to strengthen flood defence follow the terrible flooding of Storm Christoph in 2021 in the Dallam area . I have hold an annual job and apprenticeship fair to help young people find job , which have be one of the most rewarding annual event . each year , a thousand young people come to meet more than 40 local employer and talk about their future with their parent . and it have be brilliant to receive email afterwards say , " I be go on an apprenticeship . thank you for the opportunity . " I be so pleased that we use the town deal cash not simply to build new building , but to help people in the constituency gain new skill . we open a next - generation health and social care academy , which be train future healthcare assistant and social worker at Warrington and Vale Royal College . we be about to open an advanced construction academy to help the future builder of our home and settlement get the skill they need . I have manage to get around every single school in Warrington South over the past four year . I have meet every headteacher , and I have speak to a group of child in every school about democracy and the importance of get involve with politic as they grow up . I thank the teacher for their effort . I genuinely appreciate their work , because every school in Warrington South be now good or outstanding , which be not the case when this Government come into office in 2010 . I have not always push thing forward , as I have sometimes push to stop thing when constituent have ask for my help . I have oppose development on the green belt , include scheme such as the Six56 distribution centre and the ginormous Stobart distribution centre . both have go to a public inquiry because I raise they here in the Chamber of the House of Commons . I quickly prove myself wrong , as you can come to Parliament and make thing happen . I particularly thank the local councillor in Warrington South . when I come to office , we have one conservative councillor on Warrington Borough Council . Councillor Kath Buckley , who retire a few day ago , be a remarkable woman who fight cancer twice and have fly the flag for conservatism in Warrington for many year . I thank she greatly for all the support she have give to I . I also thank Ken Critchley , Mark Jervis , Linda Butler and Ghazala Chapman , my Warrington South Conservative councillor . thank you for the work that you have do over the year to fly the flag in Warrington South . here in Westminster , I be particularly pleased to have play a small part by serve on a couple of Committees , on Bills with which I have have some involvement outside of this world . the medium Bill , the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill , and the Online Safety Act 2023 , all of which we legislate for in this Parliament , will set the course of this country for the next 20 year . I have listen to every speech , and nobody have mention the people who make we sound and look great on the tv and radio every day . the people who turn on the microphone , twiddle the knob and push the fader — they will probably cut I off now — do the work to make sure that our constituent at home can see and hear the work that go on here . I pay particular tribute and thank the team who work behind the glass in this Chamber . my first question to the Prime Minister back in early 2020 be about funding for the Peace Centre in Warrington . it be set up by Colin and Wendy Parry follow the Warrington IRA bomb that take their son Tim and also kill Johnathan Ball . the circumstance be tragic . this speech would not be complete if I do not mention the Peace Foundation , as the Peace Centre move into a new phase . I be incredibly grateful for the work they have do in the town I represent . I want to say thank you to my team in Warrington and here in Westminster : Stephen Taylor , who also serve as my agent at the last election and who have stay with I all the way through as my office manager ; Stewart Gardiner , my senior caseworker ; Lyndsey Olsen , who give up be a teacher to come and answer letter from parent about school — I could not have ask for somebody who have more detailed knowledge to help people navigate their way through the SEND system than Lyndsey ; James Parker , who have run my office here in Warrington ; Julie Groom , who have join to make sure I turn up at the right event at the right time ; and most recently , Alec de Jongh , who have join and be a bit of a technical whizz — I have discover I can do thing on Facebook I never know I could do because of his work . they have be an inspiration and support , and I thank they for their hard work . I also thank they on behalf of my constituent for all the casework and the response they have give to the 31 , 000 email or piece of casework I have receive over the last four and a half year . finally , I want to thank my wife , Aggie , and my son Harry . I could not have do it without they ; they have make a world of difference . stand up for our constituency , I think , be the great honour we can have here as a Member of Parliament . I be look forward to get behind whoever the Warrington Conservatives choose as the new parliamentary candidate for the new Warrington South seat and put forward the Prime Minister ' s clear plan for secure Britain ' s future as we move forward to the general election . finally , I want to say thank you to the voter in Warrington South who send I here . the former Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , say that if the electorate don ' t get you , the boundary will . the boundary have get I this time ; I hope they do not get I next time . " do well , doubt not " be the motto of the Borough of Tunbridge Wells and be my theme when , 19 year ago in this Chamber , from the other side of the House , I make my maiden speech . that motto be not a bad piece of advice and encouragement to a new Member of Parliament , and I have try to take it to heart during these 19 year . in my maiden speech I say we need to get the A21 dualle , we need to get a new hospital build at Pembury and we need to help the many people in Tunbridge Wells , a place associate with prosperity , who be in need . now , 19 year on , we have get the A21 dualle , we have get a new hospital , and it have be my privilege as well as pleasure to help many thousand of people with their difficulty and help they solve some of the problem they have face in their life . Tunbridge Wells be a town with a vigorous voluntary sector . I be proud to be the patron , president or vice - president of many organisation , such as the Tunbridge Wells Mental Health Resource , the Sea Cadets and the Hospice in the Weald . for my ability to do all of these thing the people of Tunbridge Wells , who for five consecutive general election have return I to Parliament . I could not have stand for election without the support of those in my marvellous conservative association , who first select I and have be staunch in their support throughout . they be friend as well as colleague , and I be very grateful to they . I would like to say a big thank you to my office team who support I . I thank my current team , who be in the Gallery with we today : Diane Talbot , and Oliver Gill , who remarkably as a very young man help draft and get pass a private member ' s Bill to make for the first time it a criminal offence to sexually harass woman and girl in public — that be a remarkable legislative achievement for someone very early in his career . we send our love to Fiona Lloyd Williams , who be currently battle with some health difficulty ; she herself have battle on behalf of constituent as my caseworker . I thank Annie Jack and Sam Howard , the new member of my team , and in the past Rachel Godfrey , Matthew Dickens , Adam Hignett , Peter Franklin , David Mercier , Alexine Bullett and Joanna Garner have support I marvellously . Mr Speaker , may I thank you for your kindness and that of your staff over the year , and thank all the staff of the House , particularly the Select Committee staff ? I have have the privilege of chairing what have be the most stimulating and exciting Committee of this Parliament : the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . our weekly hearing during the height of the pandemic be broadcast live on all the national tv channel . some of the hearing — a certain one last seven hour — attract an audience in the million . have have the privilege of serve the country in government , I would like to thank all the brilliant civil servant we have . I benefit in particular from two marvellous principal private secretary , Alex Williams and Jacqui Ward , during my time as Secretary of State . I thank the special adviser I have , include Jacob Willmer , Glenn Hall , Meg Powell - Chandler and Will Holloway . finally , I want to thank my family . my parent John and Pat be at the count , share my excitement when I be first elect to this place . I thank my amazing wife Helen and our three child , every one unique and talented and very different . for Allegra , Leila and Peter , their whole life , almost , have be spend with I come to this place and with weekend be take up with constituent — I could not have do it without they . it have be a pleasure and an honour to serve the country as well as my constituent , which I could not have do have it not be for the people of Tunbridge Wells return I to this place . I be the son of a milkman from Middlesborough . I be the first person in any generation of my family to have be educate beyond the age of 16 . to have be able to do what I have do in this place and in government be entirely down to the people of Tunbridge Wells , so I express my gratitude to they for return I to this place . there be 650 constituency in this country , but I defer to the word of H . g . Wells , who when he contemplate Tunbridge Wells say : " Tunbridge Wells be Tunbridge Wells , and there be really nothing like it upon our planet . " I call Richard Bacon . thank you , Mr Speaker , and thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as you slide gracefully into the Chair . I be pleased to see you there too . before you disappear , Mr Speaker , I thank you for everything you have do . you have be a tremendous Speaker during my time here and , like many other , I be very grateful to you . I hope we see each other again before too long . Madam Deputy Speaker , it be an enormous pleasure to serve under your chairmanship . I know that I can not now say Madam Chairman , as I know you would have like I to yesterday , but we like to do thing properly in this House . if I say " you " , I will be refer to you , and not anybody else . I would like to thank my South Norfolk constituent for send I here at six successive general election . I want to thank my private secretary and office manager Tracy Reeve for 27 year of outstanding service , both to I and my South Norfolk constituent for all of my 23 year as an MP and for some four year before that as private secretary to my predecessor John MacGregor , now Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market . you know he well , Madam Deputy Speaker , as you serve as his special adviser many year ago , before either of we be in this House . you know Tracy Reeve , my private secretary for many year after Lord MacGregor leave the Commons , and you know my constituency of South Norfolk very well too , so it be a great pleasure to finish this debate with you in the Chair . nothing I have do in the last 23 year for my South Norfolk constituent would have be possible without Tracy Reeve , and I be enormously grateful for her service . this morning I be lie in bed with my wife Catherine and my dog Beaufort , who have make himself comfortable use the well - know " commando crawl through a non - existent space " technique for which spaniel be famous — by the way , my wife will get very cross if I do not mention her dog Calouste . as I be lie there pat his head and thinking of what I want to say , I be remind about a story I hear from a colleague in the Tea Room the other day . as a Conservative Member of Parliament , she have attend the conservative candidate ’ weekend selection process , and she say that she have hear one of the would - be candidate opine that there be no point in become an MP unless one become a Minister . one hope that he will learn quite a lot before he ever get anywhere near this place — if he do at all — because , plainly , that be completely incorrect . my colleague ' s story remind I of another one , particularly in this week when we have finally right the long - stand injustice of the infected blood scandal — I remember Alistair Burt stand around here talk about it at the end of the 2017 Parliament , and that be very recently in relation to the length of that scandal — and the Post Office Horizon scandal . I remember that , as I leave the Public Accounts Committee in 2017 , after some 16 year , Tony Collins , the renowned computer journalist , telephone I about it . luckily , because I be then involve in other matter to do with housing , James Arbuthnot , and many other in this place , take it up very seriously . as we finally correct those wrong this week , and be remind of other huge wrong over many decade , such as the one correct by the work of those include Andy Burnham — the Hillsborough scandal — and of other great work by many other great colleague , I be remind of another story . consider the follow : " investigation into the allegation have reveal they to be a mixture of unsubstantiated rumour , incorrect information or repetition of early allegation which have be fully investigate and find to be unsupported by the fact . a question : be that official statement aim at refute public disquiet about ( 1 ) the efficacy of measure take against Foot and Mouth , ( 2 ) the reliability of the army ' s S80 rifle and radio set in Kosovo and Sierra Leone , ( 3 ) a government order that police should keep protester out of sight during the state visit of the President of China , ( 4 ) the possibility that BSE can cross the species barrier to human , ( 5 ) the loss of an RAF Chinook helicopter and twenty - five security personnel on the Mull of Kintyre , ( 6 ) the existence of illness collectively know as Gulf War Syndrome , ( 7 ) the export to Iraq of machine tool capable of arm manufacture , ( 8 ) the circumstance surround the torpedoing of the Belgrano , ( 9 ) the radiation sickness claim by some participant in the british atomic test of the 1950 " — which my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) have so assiduously campaign on , have even join by telephone a surgery that I have with my constituent because I know that he know more about that matter than anyone else — " ( 10 ) experiment carry out at Porton down during the same period ( 11 ) the denial of full pension to thousand of disabled ex - servicemen ( and their widow ) for over fifty year , or ( 12 ) … the loss of the carrier HMS Glorious and her two escort in 1940 ? the answer be that the statement be make by the Ministry of Defence in December 1994 to refute a body of opinion that there might , indeed , be a condition … refer to as Gulf War Syndrome . but it could just as well have be … those other " . we all know this . it be a phenomenon that Tim Slessor , in his book , " Ministries of Deception " — which I be quote from here — refer to as " the Whitehall Loop " . " at its simple , this be the closed circuit procedure where , in reply to question ask of a government department or minister , the answer be put together by the very same civil servant whose early judgement be both the subject and the cause of the inquiry in the first place . " I remember bump into Simon Burns , who be , at the time , the Health Minister responsible for the national programme for it in the health service — the NPfIT , as it be call . there be at least eight other Ministers during that period ; I track it closely from 2002 to 2011 . I would not recommend that anyone read it unless they have a particularly masochistic disposition , but in the book that I write about Government , I devote an entire chapter to the npfit , where I lovingly detail the many way in which what be then call " connect for Health " manage to conceal information about how badly thing be go . one day , Simon Burns come up to I in the Tea Room and say , " Richard , I be sick and tired of be tell thing by you , and then find out six month later that they be true . " the truth be that , whether it be on the Child Support Agency , the Criminal Records Bureau , the tax credit scandal , the Rural Payments Agency scandal — which have lead some farmer , sadly , to commit suicide — the Student Loans Company , or the recruitment of junior doctor , or many , many other thing , it be our constituent who , through we as their member of Parliament , keep government honest . they so often know far more about how Government be actually work than the Government themselves do . that be why we need Members of Parliament who see their chief job as represent and protect their constituent , and as require the Government of the day , of whichever political complexion , to justify themselves and to keep explain their action . I be delighted to see my friend the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) back in her place . of the various thing I have do in the 23 year I have be here , I have not find any more consequential — or more fun — than the work we do together when I be her deputy chairman on the Public Accounts Committee , between 2010 and 2015 . she perform an extraordinary service and , by the way , write a great book about it , " call to Account " , which hon . member may wish to read . it say next in my note , " Dame Eleanor say , " but that be because when I write they you be not in your seat , Madam Deputy Speaker . as you yourself say yesterday , mps of all party be the people who do not just shout at the television but " get up and do something about it . " — [ Official Report , 23 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 1104 . ] it be an honourable estate ; it be an honourable calling . it be one of the most important thing we can do . it be worth devote oneself to , to the point of exhaustion , in order to keep our people free and to keep our government honest . it say here " self - commission housing " , so I suppose I have well say a word about that before I conclude . it be well know that for the past 10 year or so , since I steer through the self - build and Custom Housebuilding Act 2015 , I have work very hard to try to implement that . I see the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , nod . I remember bounce up to she in the Lobby many year ago , when she be Prime Minister , and say , " be it true that self - build housing be discuss at Cabinet this morning ? " she say , " yes . " I be sorry to report that there be still more to do . I see the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) in her place . I nearly succeed in coax she into give evidence for the report I do in 2021 for the then Prime Minister — it be several Prime Ministers ago ; we have have quite a few . there be some excellent recommendation in there , some of which have even be implement . I write to the current Housing Secretary on 11 March with some detailed suggestion about how the recommendation might be implement . I will sit down in one or two minute , but I must place on the record my huge gratitude to the Culture Secretary , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South East Cambridgeshire ( Lucy Frazer ) , who , when she be Housing Minister , allow I to introduce she to one of the nation ' s lead planning silk . silk to silk , they talk through the issue and the thing I be propose . my right hon . and learn Friend say to her official , " what ' s wrong with this ? " and they could not provide she with an answer , so that now sit on the statute book as section 123 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 . I hope that a future Government will do their good to implement it , and I shall certainly be encourage they to do so . in conclusion , I will just say this . it have always be an article of faith to I that there be no " they " , just " we " . if there be thing we want to fix and change , it be we who have to do it . as Karl Popper put it — I be not jealous of many thing , but I be jealous of the right hon . member for Barking because she be at the London School of Economics when he be still teach there : " progress depend on we , on our watchfulness and our effort , on the clarity of our conception of our aim and on the reasonableness of their choice . instead of pose as prophet , we must be the maker of our fate . " it be a great honour to be the last speaker on the Back Benches in this debate . we have hear great emotion from many people , and I realise that it be such a wrench for many people to leave Parliament . it have be an honour for all of we to serve , but particularly for I to serve as the Member of Parliament for Hendon . I have be intimately involve in eight parliamentary election in the past 28 year . in many way , in some seat , it be no great achievement for someone to be elect . it be in the marginal seat that it be an achievement . we be the one that have change government . I thank my constituent in Hendon for elect I on four occasion . at the last election , I receive 26 , 878 vote , the high number of conservative vote in the constituency since 1935 . it sometimes irk I when I be first elect in 2010 that I have a majority of 106 and over 20 , 000 people have elect I , while there be other sit on different Benches who have receive few vote than I but have huge majority . that do not feel quite right . each and every Member present will claim that their constituency be different from everyone else ' s , but Hendon — just like London — be very diverse . as someone who be bear and grow up in the south of England and never see a person of colour until the age of 12 , be in Hendon do not come as a great shock to I , but it have teach I a huge amount . I have a large jewish constituency , a large muslim constituency , Hindus , the large chinese community outside of Soho and Manchester , and the large iranian community in the whole country . there be many issue that connect those different religious group , which I have always campaign on , but there have also be a huge amount of diversity in the local economy . we have see huge development , mean that the boundary change that have be apply will make a difference . under the previous conservative council , when I be a councillor , we introduce development that create the Stonegrove estate , the Grahame Park estate , Beaufort Park , West Hendon , Upper Fosters and the Peel Centre . all make home for people in their local area , and we should be very grateful for that . as I say , I have work on issue that have bring community together , but the reason why I have focus on the jewish community be that they be a small number in this country — about 300 , 000 . the number of Muslims in this country be more like 6 million , and their voice will be hear by the different Members of Parliament in this place . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) raise issue of concern to many of my constituent — issue about antisemitism and education — but I be pleased that this week , Lord Pickles publish his report of the Alderney expert review , lay to rest the issue of a concentration camp on british soil during the second world war . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole have see other thing as well . a particular issue of concern to my constituent be that of Israel , which be understandable . my hon . friend and I visit Israel a few week after the 7 October attack . we visit Kfar Aza , and I only wish that each and every Member here in Parliament could experience what we do . I have not say this before , but my hon . Friend say to I that he could not take picture during that day , and I tell he that we must . just as Bert Hardy and other photographer go into Bergen - Belsen and the other concentration camp , I say , " we have to go there and take picture , so that the world know this really do happen . " we have have people say that it do not happen , but I can assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it do . I would be one of those hawkish Members who want to see the issue in Gaza resolve , but I do not believe a ceasefire now would achieve that . I do not want to see any death on any side , but when member say recently in a debate that there have be 30 , 000 civilian death , I try to challenge that . we do not know how many of those people be civilian and how many be Hamas fighter — the Foreign Office say that it have not make a prediction of that number — but we do know that 80 % of people in Gaza support Hamas , and Hamas have get to be remove . the decision of Ireland , Norway and Spain this week to recognise an independent palestinian state be not only wrong , but allow the conclusion to emerge that terrorism work , and we can not allow that . it be simply impossible to recognise a state that have never exist in any meaningful form , so what exactly be those country recognise ? I gently say to the premier of Spain and Ireland that they have never particularly recognise their minority community . my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) say that you should never ask a question in this place if you do not know the answer . there be an occasion when I ask the former Prime Minister — now Lord Cameron — if he would visit Israel . I have to say that one of the good experience of be in Parliament be the moment when I visit Lord Cameron in his suite at the King David hotel . we walk past the guy with machine gun guard he , and we sit and drink whisky with he . I have to say that it be not that different from sit on the throne in Saddam Hussein ' s palace in Baghdad — of course , without Saddam Hussein , and with whisky . we have live through an extraordinary period in this Parliament . People often ask I , " what be the good part of be an MP ? " I find that easy to answer : it be the people , particularly the constituent . the story that they tell be sometimes heart - wrench , often annoying , regularly amusing and always interesting . I have have great people work with I in the constituency — some political , some not . I particularly think of people like Val Duschinsky and Hugh Rayner , who work with I in the Hendon association , as well as Rabbi Ginsbury , Simon Rea and Mushtaq Rehman , the respective leader of their religious community . activist such as Rupa Monerawela , Richard Nash and Manubhai Makwana have be a great support to I . there be also individual such as Ari Leaman , who have do so much for the teenage community , and Lorraine Bushell for the Grandparents ' Association . I be ask what be the big mistake that I have ever make as a Member of Parliament . that be easy to answer : it be on the military action in Libya , when I walk past my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) and think , " how ' s he go to explain why he ' s vote against this ? " but we not only create a fail state , but significantly contribute to the current immigration and asylum crisis . that be my big mistake , and I bitterly regret it . the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) say that be an MP be not what it use to be , and she be correct . several year ago I be on a boat and the skipper say , " what be it you say that you do for a living ? " I say , " I didn ' t . " before long , one of the other crew say , " well , it can ' t be as bad as be a Member of Parliament . " it be still vital to be a Member of Parliament ; those who come after we will recognise that . I leave on one note that I be particularly sad about . for 30 year , I have complain about sewage in our river and our sea . not much have change over the last 30 year ; all that have change be that the Government have implement a scheme for monitor the amount of sewage that go into our river and our sea . the Lib Dems be make this a central plank of their election campaign . they should be advise that their mp vote against the super - sewer here in London , so they do not have a good record on the issue . in my opinion , the EU directive be never fit for purpose , so while minister have repeatedly claim that water quality be improve , it be simply not ; it be the way that water quality be measure . such claim lead I to conclude that this be the same kind of behaviour by Ministers that be witness in the contaminated blood scandal . have be elect continuously for the last 22 year — for the last 14 as the Member of Parliament for Hendon — have take a huge toll on I . that be why I have decide to step down , but I would not change it for a thing . I be look forward to Ameet Jogia , the conservative candidate , take forward what we have achieve . he be not only bear in the constituency but be a local candidate . I have to thank my staff for the work that they have do over the last few year . in this Parliament alone , they have undertake 60 , 884 piece of casework . I have have a good staff who have remain friend , begin with Laura Pike , Hannah Evans , Ness Hirst and Katherine Toone , and now with Eamonn Walsh , George Bose , Carolynne Fisher and Steve Martin , who volunteer , and Hilary Smith , who have be with I for the last 16 year . they have really be true public servant . as be say , they be the one who ensure that the work be actually complete . of course , I can not forget Maximus Decimus Meridius — my Jack Russell , Max — who still attend Parliament on occasion . he have enable I to concentrate on animal welfare issue . so , in the spirit of a roman language , I say : veni , vidi , vici . just before we come to the wind - up speech , I hope that the House will indulge I bend the rule for a moment or two to say a few word before I vacate the Chair for the last time — which be a very difficult thing to do . the first time I sit in this Chair , I imagine that it would make I feel like somebody with power and grandeur . I tell you , I feel like Alice in Wonderland — you know that picture of Alice shrink and the chair get big — because I think , " this Chair be awfully big and I ' m awfully small . " it still feel like that . I would like first to say a few word about the other occupant of this Chair : the team make up of the Speaker and the Deputy Speakers — my dear friend and colleague . the First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means , the right hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) ; the Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means , my right hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Mr Evans ) ; and my right hon . friend the Member for North Thanet ( Sir Roger Gale ) , together with Mr Speaker , make up the team who keep this place go every day . it be a brilliant team , and I could not have be more fortunate in have such great people to work with . not only be they good parliamentarian and great politician , but they be also great fun , and when we have a moment , we have a very good laugh . I say a very sincere thank you to they all . they stand in for I , look after I and keep I go when I be seriously ill last year . thank to what they do , I be well . I pay particular tribute to Mr Speaker . at the end of the last Parliament , the House of Commons be in danger of go the wrong way . Sir Lindsay Hoyle have restore dignity , decency , kindness and humour to this place , with a light touch and his own extraordinary personality . I know , because I have see it every day , how much effort he have put into do that , and long may he continue . I thank all those who have help and support I over 27 year in Parliament . at the moment , the most important people be those in my office on the Deputy Speakers ' corridor : the wonderful Robi and James . I also thank their great predecessor L - J , Abi , Clemmie , Georgie , Joanna , Sarah and the magnificent Jo - Jo . I also thank , as lot of Members have , our brilliant Clerks , who be so patient and wise ; the Doormen ; and the magnificently sympathetic lady and gentleman in the Tea Room , especially Mary and Godfrey , who always keep I some fish and chip on a Friday , when the Tea Room close before the House rise . of course , I also thank the lady and gentleman in the Pugin Room — sometimes we be last in there , too , aren ' t we , Mr Deputy Speaker ? Don ' t tell anybody . I could never have manage without Jackie and Kelly downstairs . they know who they be ; they know how much we rely on and care about they . there be quite a few " Ayes " and " hear hear ! " around the Chamber , mostly — but not entirely — from lady . may I also thank the people who have maintain my constituency office and my private office ? I be lucky to have such loyal colleague , all of whom have also become great friend of mine and of each other . there have be very few of they over a span of 30 year , because they have all stay for a very long time . I really do not know how they have the patience to deal with I , day in , day out — I could not do it . I thank in particular Debbie , Jess , Karen , Beverly , Carol , Iona , Gilly , Frankie , Tom , Sophie and Sean . epping Forest Conservative Association be a brilliant team . I see that the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) , who be once its chairman , be sit on the Front Bench , acknowledge and agree with what I say . the association have provide a great many colleague in this place , notably — as well as my hon . friend — our late friend James Brokenshire . it will be good to take a moment to remember he , and the other colleague whom we have lose . James ' s wife Cathy — I should perhaps say his widow — have be an absolute stalwart of my office for the last two and a half year , carry on so much of the good work that James start . the Conservative association team have be lead forever , I think , by our wonderful president , the inimitable Valerie Metcalfe , who , have tell I what to do over seven general election , be affectionally know as my fairy god - agent . many member have say this afternoon that the people who make the sacrifice for we Members of Parliament be our family . I be fortunate enough to have a great family and a lot of very close friend , and I be think particularly of my lifelong friend . I will not embarrass they by mention they , because they be not politician , but they know who they be . they have stand by I through good time and bad . I will , however , mention my brother Robbie and my wonderful son Matthew , who have spend his entire life with a crazy mother who be a Member of Parliament . it would not be wrong to say that he be bring up in this building . he be bear exactly a week after the 2001 general election , and he be very early , something that I have never be . I apologise to all the people whom I have keep wait over the year , which be most of they . finally , let I say a sincere thank you to my constituent in Epping Forest , the people who have give I the chance to be their representative here for 27 year . I have friend in Epping Forest in every political party , in every town and village , in every walk of life . they be brilliant , brilliant people . they be the backbone of this country , and I be sure that they would agree with whoever say , " all that be necessary for evil to prevail be that good man " — and woman — " do nothing " . they , we , and all the people who have be talk about this afternoon be the good people who do not do nothing , and that be why evil will not prevail . this have be the most emotional day of my life . you have cause I to cry a dozen time , you people , and I be still cry . we now come to the wind - up speech , and I call Lucy Powell . let I say again , as I have already this week , how much admiration I have for Madam Deputy Speaker , the right hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dame Eleanor Laing ) , and the other Madam Deputy Speaker , the right hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) . they be both marvellous , inspiring , incredibly stylish woman . Parliament , and the parliamentary hairdresser , will be all the poor for their departure . I wish they both well in the future , and I be sure that we will see they again . it be my pleasure to wind up this valedictory debate , at 6 . 44 pm on a Friday ; I do not intend to make a habit of speak in Parliament so late on a Friday . we have have 31 speech today , all of which have be incredibly move , powerful and emotional . as the main labour person in the Chamber for the past four and a half hour , I have feel slightly like a gate - crasher at a private party , but I be glad to have be here . today have show that all of we in politic know that this be a vocation , not a job . it be a life in service , always in the public eye , and very rarely with an off switch . we have be remind today , as we often be , that the constituent be the boss , and our family be the bedrock . a huge amount of parliamentary experience be leave this place today . I could not even add up the collective number of year of service by everybody who have speak today . it be a huge amount , and we should recognise that for what it be . while I personally be excited for the general election , I have feel a great deal of sadness today and this week for so many people depart . I have feel today how many of my friend on the Government Benches be leave . it have be a very emotional day for all of we . these really be the very good day in Parliament . I be sure that we can all agree on that . it have feel a little bit like the last day at high school , which today be for lot of year 11 and year 13 across the country . perhaps we can all swap shirt at the end of the debate and sign they for each other . [ interruption . ] okay , well , we could all sign each other ' s shirt — you know what I mean ! one of the theme of contribution today be the importance of cross - party working , so I will try to respond in that spirit . how fitting it be that the two open speech be from such long - stand , powerful woman Members of Parliament . this have be very different from many valedictory debate that we have have in year go by . those two woman , who I will come on to say something about , inspire many of the other woman who speak today . that be a real theme of the debate . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) send her apology : she can not be here for the wind - up , and want it note that she have a bit of an accident with an out - of - control buggy when she be on granny duty . she be fit and strong , but she have to leave to get more painkiller for her shoulder . she really have be an exemplary Member of Parliament — the Mother of the House , and political mother to many of we . she really do create a path for many of we to follow . it be also a real privilege to be here for the last speech by the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , another fantastic sister to all of we who have be a voice for the voiceless . she leave an amazing track record that she can be proud of . her word about democracy and respect for democracy be one that we will all cherish . my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) be not in his place , though it do not really matter if people be not in their place any more , because there be no sanction . right to the last , he be the enthusiastic , bob back Bencher who be always there , although he be not there now . he be here every day , for most oral statement and question , and we shall miss he . a lot of people be not here , actually . we all recognise that the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) be an exemplary Defence Secretary in very difficult time , and the whole country feel a great deal of confidence in he . my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , who be in her place , have have a long career , but she have always be fear and revere , and respect , in equal measure . tax avoider and money launderer take note : she be not go very far . she be a real example of joint working on a cross - party consensus . the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) will always have a very long - last legacy with the public as the Health Secretary during covid , there on our television every evening provide that reassurance . I wish he well with his future career . this be a very sad , emotional day for the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) . it be very sad day for all of we because , although it might be a low bar , as I be sure the whole House can agree , he be definitely the most popular Member of this House from the Scottish National party . [ laughter . ] we all wish he really well in the future . my dear friend the right hon . member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) have be a great campaigner , a great parliamentarian and a good friend , and have a really strong track record on education . together with the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , the three of we do our good to try to get this House to agree to Common Market 2 . 0 and take a slightly more sensible approach to Brexit . I regard they both as friend , and I know that this House will be all the poor without they here . the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) be brilliantly brief and very funny in his remark . what a wonderful speech the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) give . it be very funny and move , and I completely agree with she that family be everything . the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) will forever be know as the President of COP26 , when the whole world be watch . he do that job absolutely brilliantly and have a strong track record to take with he . the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) and I be both in our 50th year — she be not here either , because she have family duty . I have immensely enjoy work with she over the year , especially on football . the right hon . member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) be another strong woman who succeed both in her career and in motherhood . she be a great inspiration . in one short term , the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , another friend of mine , have achieve a great deal . I have enjoy work closely with she on the House of Commons Commission , and I wish she well . what a typically funny , inspiring , thoughtful and informative speech the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) give . he will long be know for all his work on justice , and I be sure he will be back in other guise . to the right hon . member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) : what fantastic service you have provide to Wales . I wish you well ; or rather , I wish he well — if the right hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dame Eleanor Laing ) be here , she would tell I off . the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Stephen Hammond ) be another popular member of this House — so many popular member be go . he remind we of the importance of the constituency work we do — although he might want to have a conversation with the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster behind he about other people do that constituency work for he . the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) be another Member who I have work with , on early year and the importance of the first 1 , 001 day . I have really enjoy the naughty corner , which he talk about , over these last few year . it will be much deplete after today , although I be not sure that I will follow his advice and try to make myself look like Quentin Letts . that might be a step too far . the hon . member for Fylde ( Mark Menzies ) and I have be friend for a number of year . I know that it have be a difficult year for he , but I be sure we can all wish he well for the future . I thank the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for also be brief — I think we all enjoy that — and for his passion for education and the work he have do as a Minister and as Chair of the Education Committee . I think we can all most definitely take his advice about screen time . the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , who be not in her place either , might be relatively young , but I think we can all agree that she have make a real impact during her time in the House of Commons . what a proud record the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) lay out for we today . the hon . member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) give we some great word of advice , which I might print out for all incoming mp after the election , and be obviously well love by his neighbour . the hon . member for Basildon and Biccarilli — [ interruption . ] billericay — there be lot of Essex Members here today and they know well than I , thankfully . the hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) be a very independent - minded and strong parliamentarian , and he leave a legacy that I be sure many other will want to follow . the hon . member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , as a Health Minister , introduce those vaccine and a cancer plan — what a great record that be . I wish he well , too . the hon . member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) and I have work together on a number of issue , and I know that broadcaster and those in the medium will miss he greatly in this place . as my husband work in Warrington Hospital , the hon . Gentleman and I keep in close touch about how well the hospital be do under his leadership and support there as the local MP . the right hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) have make a real impact in Parliament , both as a Minister and as a Select Committee Chair , and I know that many Opposition member greatly respect his work . the hon . member for South Norfolk ( Mr Bacon ) — what long service . he do what no one else have do up to that point , which be to mention his pet dog . he be only match by the Member who follow he , the hon . member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) , who speak very well about the importance of the different community we all have in our constituency . in sum up , I want to say a couple of other thing . one member be not here but , during our debate , he announce that he would be stand down : the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . I be sure we will all cheer along with his recovery in the come month . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] we have also lose some good friend during this Parliament : Tony Lloyd ; Jack Dromey , without whom my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham would not have be able to be a member ; Sir David Amess , who we all miss greatly ; James Brokenshire ; and Dame Cheryl Gillan . this be a remarkable place to work and this have be a remarkable Parliament , in which we have have Brexit , covid and war . in today ' s debate , a few lesson have unite everyone who speak : the importance of our constituency ; the importance of our staff ; the importance of our family ; and the importance of the staff who work here . I wish you all well . I call the Minister . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] I be already receive a note from the whip tell I that I have speak too long . send such note be often my role in this House . I be delighted to be stand in for the Leader of the House today . I observe that it be tradition , week on week , for the Leader of the House , the shadow Leader of the House and the Chairman of Ways and Means to spend a considerable amount of time at the parliamentary hairdresser . unfortunately , I have not make it to the salon today . I pay tribute to the Chairman of Ways and Means , Dame Eleanor , who be stand down from this House . she have do a fantastic job over a long period , as both a Member of Parliament and a Deputy Speaker . it be sad to see she leave the House . I also pay tribute to Dame Rosie , who be also leave the House . the whip spend a lot of time deal with the Speaker and the Deputy Speakers , and it be an important relationship for the working of this House . I want to pay tribute to several colleague who have not speak in this debate , and I hope you will give I some latitude , Mr Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to our hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) , who be a brave , brave man . sadly , he be not stand again at the election . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Henley ( John Howell ) , who have be ill for some time , and acknowledge the work he have do in this House and on the Council of Europe . I also want to mention my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) , who have also be poorly . I be glad to say that he be stand again at the election . I pay tribute to he and the work he have do , particularly for our fishing industry and several other industry that affect his area . I will try not to speak for too long , but to mention as many of the speech as possible . there have be some fantastic speech , some serious comment have be make , but we have also hear some very good humour . first , let I mention the speech by my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . it have be a pleasure to be her Whip for the past 18 month , and one could not find a more dedicated public servant . she have have a distinguished career in this House . she have be the Home Secretary and , as we all know , the Prime Minister . despite hold those great office , she have always , every week , be back to her constituency to knock on door and speak to her constituent . I know from a friend of mine that she have have regular surgery , regardless of the role she have hold in this House . on the way my right hon . friend have deal with thing since she be Prime Minister , I would call it — this be a crude term — " old school dedication " . she have assiduously attend this House and speak in a huge number of debate . she be invariably here to vote . as I say , it have be a pleasure to deal with she closely for the past 18 month . I also pay tribute to Sir Philip May , who have be an excellent aid to my right hon . friend . it be good to hear her talk about our democracy and the threat to it , and why we should always promote democracy . the speech she make be of the high quality , as ever . the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) tell we that she have make 9 , 800 speech in her 42 year in this House and in that time have never rebel once . that be a Whip ' s dream and I have every admiration for she . she be a great campaigner , have do a massive amount for her constituent and have be a great representative in this place . the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) also make a very good speech . if he do not mind , I shall call he the humble crofter — it be mean in the great of spirit ; that be how we affectionately know he on the Conservative Benches . I always use to enjoy Prime Minister ' s question when he be the leader of his party . at time , it get a bit tasty and adversarial , on both side , but I can attest to the fact that in the Tea Room one could always have a good , civil and pleasant conversation with he , and I thank he for that . he be absolutely right in say that we be all here to try to improve the life of our constituent and for the right reason . he be also right to say , " leave whip to the whip " , which be a very good principle . I also want to talk briefly about my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , who be an excellent Defence Secretary . he see the problem in Ukraine with Russia ' s invasion of it a long time before they happen . he do a massive amount of groundwork that be under the radar at the time . he also remind we about the part that the family of member of Parliament play . that be really important and I wish to thank my wife , Suzanne , my son , Oliver , and my daughter , Martha , who have be huge supporter to I over the past 14 year and will doubtless be huge supporter to I during the general election campaign . the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) tell a lovely story about be chastise by the great Betty Boothroyd , and she be right to mention the convention and protocol of this House . they can often be easily forget when we be in the heat of battle . they be important for the working of this House . it be important that this House show how to operate democracy not just in this country , but across the world . my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) talk about how he overcome his dyslexia to become a Member of Parliament and a Cabinet Minister . it be important to inspire future generation to overcome adversity and get here . he also talk about what he do during the pandemic to meet the massive challenge across the country . I thank he for his work . he also mention the importance of special adviser . I pay tribute to the Chief Whip ' s special adviser , Emma Pryor , who have do a massive amount for the Government . I have two stint with my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) at what be the Department for Communities and Local Government , and then the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . my abide memory of that second stint , which unfortunately be only for two month , be of work on the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 in the 40 ° heat of the Committee Room . we both know that we be on our bike , so to speak , but I remember that on the final day of the Bill Committee , he come to sit in the Gallery and watch the whole thing . that be the mark of the man . I thank he very much for all the support , guidance and help that he have give I over my time in the House . my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Mr Bacon ) go through the important work that he have be do for many year on the Public Accounts Committee to hold the Government and public service to account . I remember spend many a happy hour with he on the Housing and Planning Act 2016 , where he show his depth of knowledge about self - build housing . I hope that , over time , more of the thing that he have advocate for come to fruition , because he have make valid point . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) for his speech , for the leadership that he have show on climate issue and for his work as COP26 President . my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) make an excellent speech . sadly , the Football Governance Bill that she have champion have not make it through the wash - up , but I hope that the next Government will take it up and deliver on it . she be very kind to I . when I be the pair Whip , I give she a slip to go and speak to Manchester United . she turn back up at the Whips Office with a sign Manchester United football that I give to the Warwickshire air ambulance charity , which auction it for £ 400 . I be grateful to she for that . I think forthright be the word that I would use to describe my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , who have be an excellent member of the House . usually , member of Parliament display a great deal of loyalty because they want to get preferment and a ministerial role . he spend a lot of time rebel but , despite that , secure a ministerial role . have work alongside he during his stint as the Northern Powerhouse Minister , I can say what an excellent job he do . my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) make a characteristic speech . the man be the most expensive MP in Parliament and the MP for white van man — quite literally . his work on the fuel duty , which have be freeze , or actually reduce , since 2011 , have be phenomenal . he have cost the Treasury billion of pound , but he have do a massive service to his constituent and mine — to all of our constituent — to help they cope with the cost of living . my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) reel off a huge list of achievement , particularly as a Health Minister . I thank he for his work . it be a pleasure to serve with my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) in the Whips Office . she do not look like it , but she be a true grafter not just for her constituent but for the Government , particularly in her role as Vice Chamberlain of his Majesty ' s household . in the time that I be work with she , she make a huge effort to support the welfare of many of her colleague , and I thank she for that . she also do a huge amount during the pandemic as a Health Minister . it be good to hear her reflection on that difficult period for the country . my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) do not speak for as long as I expect — he obviously be not charge by the unit today . I be lucky enough to be the Minister responsible for local government for two and a half year . he have that role too , and I know how much he enjoy it and the good work that he do . he be also pub Minister , as be I , and as you have always want to be , Mr Deputy Speaker . if my hon . and learn Friend will indulge I , I recall a Westminster Hall debate in which he be describe as the pint - sized pub Minister . he take it all in his stride and with his characteristic great heart . one someone who have be a Minister , it be quite easy to drift away , but he have not do that . he take on the role of Chair of the Justice Committee , and he be one of the most assiduous and prolific contributor in this Chamber . he will be miss . my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Stephen Hammond ) talk about the change nature of the work of mps since he come into the House . it have certainly change in the 14 year that I have be here . I know how hard he have work for his constituent . a friend of mine be eternally grateful when he manage to save the ground of Old Emanuel RFC in his constituency . that be the type of work that be invaluable from a Member of Parliament for constituent . my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) talk about the huge event that have take place since he have be in this House . he rightly mention the Iraq war , the financial crisis , Brexit and covid . he highlight the world - change event over the last 20 year and what government over that time have have to contend with . he mention the importance of child ' s social care and child ' s development , particularly in the first 1 , 000 day , and I agree with his point . my hon . friend the Member for Fylde ( Mark Menzies ) talk about his achievement as a UK trade envoy , and I thank he for his service and dedication to that role over a number of year . my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) reel off a catalogue of achievement , especially his work on baby loss , parental bereavement , child ' s service and special educational need , which be so important to many young people and family across the country . my hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) make a very pertinent point about member of Parliament gain experience . the armed force parliamentary scheme have a great deal of value for member of Parliament who have not be in the force . after be on the scheme , they understand more about our force and what be a member of our brave armed force be about and how they often have to work in difficult circumstance . my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) make a very self - deprecate speech . I recall work with he very closely when we try to stop the disbanding of the 2nd Regiment of the Royal Fusiliers . sadly , we be not successful , but he do a massive amount of work on that . all I can say to my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) be : pedicab . I congratulate she on that legislation , because it will make central London safe and more welcoming to visitor . I thank she for that . on the contribution from my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) , we all want a legacy from our time here in the House . she certainly have that in the British Sign Language Act 2022 and the work she have do for British Sign Language . she be right to point out the importance for this and the next government of ensure that there be support for people who be deaf and that we make thing accessible . my abide memory of my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) , from when I be grow up , be he with his head stick out of a tank — I think it be in Kosovo or Bosnia . he be a very gallant gentleman and , in his own inimitable style , he talk about his 14 year in this place and the hazard of Hansard , with which he may have have issue at time . he be a true friend and a very loyal colleague to many . while the Minister have be on his foot , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) have announce that he will not be stand for election again . he have serve almost entirely within the Cabinet over the past 14 year , and I be sure that he would have participate in this debate , have he have the opportunity . I be sure that the Minister will want to make some remark about he , too . I thank my right hon . friend , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , who have a significant legacy through his work as Education Secretary . he be not always popular , but we now have significantly more good and outstanding school in this country follow 14 year of a Conservative Government and his work . the english education system have go up the league table , and we now have the good reader in the western world . we have also go up the league table in reading , writing and math , and he can be very proud of that record , as can this Government . before I make my final remark , I would like to thank mps ' staff , who do a huge amount of work throughout the year and over the course of a Parliament . they do a lot of work that people do not see or acknowledge , but they give a massive amount of support to member of Parliament . I would like to thank Jeff Clarke , Alan Farnell , Martyn Punyer , Jonathan Collett , Laura Thurston and Steph Henshaw , who work in my office . I would also like to thank the House staff , include the security , the police officer who keep we safe , and the Doorkeepers — if you want to know anything that be go on in this place , ask the Doorkeepers . they be a reliable source of information , but they be also a very important part of the work that we do here . just like the Deputy Speakers and the opposition party ' Whips Offices , the Doorkeepers be an integral part of run this place . that be particularly important when we send most member of Parliament back home during the covid pandemic lockdown and run a virtual Parliament , when co - operation be most need . I would also like to thank the official who support the Whips Office , and I thank the Leader of the House ' s official on her behalf . to conclude , I wish those stand in the election a very safe campaign . I hope that my colleague on this side of the House who be stand again be return , and I wish they the good of luck . on behalf of the House , I wish those stand down the very good in whatever they be go on to do once they leave this place . I thank they for their service , and for their dedication to their constituent and this place , over the time that they have be here . I agree with the Minister that I be the good pub Minister this country have never have . can I also say how much I be go to miss both Rosie and Eleanor ? it have be a privilege to be work as a team on the Ways and Means corridor — it have be absolutely superb — and Mr Speaker have be absolutely fantastic with we and , indeed , with the House . it have not be an easy year for Lindsay : as you know , his father be ill , and the great Doug Hoyle pass away early this year . I be sure many of we will remember Doug with huge fondness . the Minister mention John Howell and David Duguid , and I wish both of they well in their recovery . I visit Craig Mackinlay in hospital about a dozen time , and I have to say that if you could bottle his positivity , he would be a billionaire . he be amazing with his resilience and his inner strength , and I wish he , Kati and Olivia the very good for the future . as you have say , all of you who be stand down have be my friend — you have all touch I over many , many year as great friend . I have be an MP for 32 year , and I know that some of you have be mps for long ; other have be mps for less time , but you have all be great friend during that time , and I wish you all the very good for the future . for those who be stand , I wish you the very good of luck . as you can see , there be no Adjournment debate today , and that be why Jim Shannon be not here . [ laughter . ] question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming Dissolution . good luck , everyone . Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill consideration of Lords amendment I confirm that nothing in the Lords amendment engage Commons financial privilege . clause 12 - restriction on title I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendment 2 to 67 . all amendment make to this legislation in the other place be minor and technical in nature , and serve to make the legislation function as intend . this be a historic day for leaseholder : this package of reform will transform the leasehold housing market and the life of million of leaseholder across England and Wales . our reform to lease extension and the buying of freehold will give family and individual security , which be a core conservative principle . give more leaseholder the freedom to manage their own building will empower they to make important decision themselves , such as choose a management company that deliver good - quality work at reasonable price , and will require management company to up their standard and give leaseholder a well deal in order to retain and win business . on service charge , leaseholder must be give more information as to what be be do to their property and what they be actually pay for . the requirement for landlord and management company to specify exactly what the service charge entail will encourage high standard among those company and empower leaseholder to challenge poor service . that be because transparency be a core conservative value , too . similarly , our building insurance reform will stop leaseholder be charge exorbitant , opaque commission on top of their premium and tackle the proven case of insider trading in the market — fairness be another core conservative principle . then , we turn to the million of freeholder live on new estate who be impact by poor service , bad management and opaque fee . those estate and the property on they bring joy , security and future for everyone who have purchase those property , include the 1 million household that will have be create in this Parliament . I can tell the House today that the Government ' s target of build 1 million new home in this Parliament have be meet . these further right for homeowner on private and mixed - tenure estate encapsulate what the Bill be try to do : bring fairness , security , transparency and competition to freehold estate . it be not right to force someone who have buy a freehold property to deal only with one management company , which be not require to give any information or charge reasonable fee — a monopoly . the Bill will explicitly ban the creation of future leasehold house . this be a once - in - a - generation reform that will alter the housing market forever , and I commend the Bill to the House . I call the Father of the House . I think the whole House wish that the Secretary of State be able to be with we . he be one of the people who have help to move this forward , together with the junior Minister . I say to Michael : well do , not just on education , but on get a grip of the horror in residential leasehold . after the Grenfell fire tragedy , people realise that those stick with the bill not just for cladding but for every other fire defect be not the developer , the architect , the surveyor or the supplier of component , but the residential leaseholder who by law be only tenant and own not a single brick in the building . it be when the Secretary of State come in that the action start . actually , he be not the first . two other Secretaries of State have to give instruction to their permanent secretary to start give out some compensation . I still commend to the Government have an agency to take over potential claim of all residential leaseholder , take action against those responsible and hold a roundtable with all their insurer . that would get £ 10 billion in almost overnight , save the money go to the lawyer . to return to the Bill , there have be cross - party agreement over the past eight year that something be need . the Law Commission produce many recommendation , most of which be in the Bill . I will not go into all the detail of the debate that I hear in another place , where some member seem to think that people ' s property right be be harm . I do not remember those member of another place complain when the disgraceful statutory instrument 632 come through in 2020 , boost landowner ' value by about £ 5 billion . the only people pay that be the leaseholder . I be very grateful to the people who have support the all - party group on leasehold and commonhold reform . Katherine o ' Riordan have do really well on that , as have the trustee of the campaign charity Leasehold Knowledge Partnership , Martin Boyd and sebastian o ' Kelly , together with new trustee , include Liam Spender , who have do a great deal in fight off very bad landlord in the east end of London . three problem remain , on which the House will want to see the next Administration take action urgently . one be that forfeiture , as the whole House accept , be a draconian system that must go . the threat of lose the home be one thing , but all the equity go to the landlord be totally another , and that should be stop . in one case in which I be involve in Plantation Wharf , someone be at risk of lose £ 600 , 000 over a dispute bill of £ 7 , 000 . secondly , the commitment to bring in a ground rent cap have not come forward but it must be introduce . I acknowledge that I have a share of a small block of leasehold flat in worthe where I have a home , and I own another leasehold property that I let out , but I will not benefit from this because I have negotiate with my landlord that they will pay the ground rent for the next 30 year , which will see I out . we need a ground rent cap . we know that ground rent turn to peppercorn if there be a legal extension , and we ought to get to that as fast as we can . if on the way we have to stop at £ 250 a year , that be fine . the last thing be that we need to recognise that a move to commonhold be the only way forward to ensure an effective housing market . we ought to stop new residential leasehold property be sell , and we ought to find a way to help exist leaseholder avoid face penalty from external landlord , who can go into all sort of bad behaviour , whether on insurance commission or other way of take money off leaseholder improperly . that would be in the interest of both landlord and leaseholder . I congratulate the Government and thank the Minister for his attendance . I be very grateful to the Opposition for help persuade the Prime Minister that this Bill could come forward in this last session of this Parliament . I claim the credit because on the Tuesday before the King ' s coronation , I be stand with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the official Opposition and I say to the Prime Minister that the opposition would help he — Rishi look at Keir , Keir nod , and now we have the Bill . on that note , may I on behalf of the opposition also welcome this Bill ? we be pleased that the disagreement down the other end of the building have be resolve and that it can go forward . it be not perfect , as the Father of the House have point out , and I hope that a future Labour Government will take the next step that we need . it be a step forward , so we be pleased to support this legislation go on to the statute book this evening . with the leave of the House , I pay tribute to all the staff and Clerks here , the countless campaigner on the right of leaseholder and some of those mention by my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , the brilliant parliamentary champion of the Bill , include my hon . friend himself , the official who have work so hard to deliver the Bill , and indeed my private office and official for their work on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which sadly have not make it through the wash - up today , such be the nature of a snap general election . but the person I must thank above all be , as my hon . Friend say , the Secretary of State , who have today announce his decision not to stand again . he have be an amazing mentor to I , a phenomenal person to work with , and a great and generous friend . I know he be not everyone ' s cup of tea , but he will go down as one of the great reformer , and child today go to well school and get a far well education because of Michael Gove — he be brilliant and I will really miss he . I have love this job over the last four and a half year , represent my home as the first MP for my constituency who be actually from Teesside . I hope the people of Redcar and Cleveland will send I back here in six week ' time to continue deliver for they . I thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and all those who sit in that Chair . you be in that Chair for my maiden speech , and you be there today as we deliver the final Bill of this Parliament . and with that , the 2024 season come to an end . lord amendment 1 agree to . with the leave of the House , I will put a single question on the Government motion to agree to Lords amendment 2 to 67 , otherwise we would be here a long time . lord amendment 2 to 67 agree to . sitting suspend ( Order , 23 May ) . message to attend the Lords Commissioners Message to attend the Lords Commissioners deliver by the Lady Usher of the Black Rod . the Speaker , with the House , go up to hear his Majesty ' s Commission ; on their return , the Speaker sit in the Clerk ' s place at the table . Royal Assent I have to acquaint the House that the House have be to the House of Peers where a Commission under the Great Seal be read , authorise the Royal Assent to the follow Act and measure : Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2024 Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill Act 2024 Media Act 2024 Pet Abduction Act 2024 Paternity Leave ( Bereavement ) Act 2024 Building Societies Act 1986 ( Amendment ) Act 2024 British Nationality ( Irish Citizens ) Act 2024 Zoological Society of London ( Leases ) Act 2024 Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . his Majesty ' s Most gracious Speech I have far to acquaint the House that the Leader of the House of Lords , one of the Lords Commissioners , deliver his Majesty ' s Most Gracious Speech to both Houses of Parliament , in pursuance of his Majesty ' s Command . for great accuracy I have obtain a copy , and also direct that the term of the Speech be print in the Journal of this House . copy be be make available in the Vote Office . the Speech be as follow : my Lords and Members of the House of Commons the focus of my Government have be to deliver its plan to increase economic growth and safeguard the health and security of the people of the United Kingdom . my Government have take action to lay the foundation for long term economic growth , to ensure that work always pay , and to support the british people with the cost of living . my Ministers have meet their commitment to halve inflation , which be now at its low rate since September 2021 . my Government have deliver tax cut for million of work people , with National Insurance contribution for employee cut by four percentage point , save a typical employee over £ 900 a year . National Insurance contribution for the self - employ have also be cut by three percentage point and the requirement to pay contribution on low level of profit have be remove . legislation have be pass to raise the income threshold for the High Income Child Benefit Charge and halve the rate at which child Benefit be withdraw . this will help parent towards the cost of raise their child . my Government have also roll out the first phase of expansion of childcare in England to hundred of thousand of parent . through my government ' s direction , the United Kingdom have continue to be at the forefront of technology and innovation . new law have foster innovation in british broadcasting to reflect change view pattern and grow demand for high quality online content . tax legislation enact this session have incentivise investment and enhance support to make it safe and easy for small and medium sized business to focus on innovation . as more business shift to digital marketplace , my Ministers have work to ensure that new legislation promote competition , while secure well value for money for consumer and protect they from unfair practice . legal framework have be update to ensure that Great Britain can safely capture the opportunity for economic growth present by the evolve technology of automate vehicle . my Ministers have champion british good and innovation . the United Kingdom be now the world ' s fourth large global exporter while maintain high standard in trade . law be pass to end the export of livestock from Great Britain for fatten or slaughter . legislation be pass to support the United Kingdom ' s accession to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership . this will remove tariff from ninety - nine per cent of british product export to a trading bloc worth 15 per cent of global GDP follow this accession . my Government have take advantage of the freedom afford by the United Kingdom ' s departure from the European Union to reduce burden on business . the Smarter Regulation Programme have introduce reform remove up to 50 million hour of administrative work per year for business , save they an estimate £ 1 billion annually . legislation be previously pass to remove the principle of supremacy of European Union law and over two thousand instrument of European Union law have be reform or remove from the statute book . to enable the NHS in England to carry out more operation and procedure , my Government have deliver 101 surgical hub , Community Diagnostic Centres operate from 160 site , and more doctor and nurse . legislation pass this session have make it cheap and easy for leaseholder to purchase their freehold and address the exploitation of homeowner through punitive service charge . my Ministers have take action to deliver justice for victim and keep community safe from crime , anti - social behaviour , and terrorism . the victim of the Infected Blood and Post Office Horizon scandal have suffer decade - long injustice . my Government have legislate to ensure that they be compensate fairly and treat with respect . the Victims ' Code have be put on a statutory footing and the parole process have be reform to put the interest of victim first . law pass this session will ensure that a parent who kill the other parent have their parental responsibility suspend . my Government have take measure to disrupt the business model of people smuggler and deter dangerous and illegal journey to the United Kingdom . legislation have be deliver to underpin the partnership with Rwanda to tackle small boat crossing . my Ministers have ensure that intelligence and law enforcement agency have the power they need to keep pace with a new generation of threat to national security . legislation enact this session will allow for the regulation of pedicab in London . this will provide passenger with the confidence that they be in a safe , licensed and roadworthy vehicle and that they will not be overcharge . new law strengthen the sanction regime have limit the role that sanction individual can play in UK business and extend the use of immigration sanction while stop the exploitation of financial market . the United Kingdom continue to play a lead role in defend freedom across the world , include when ideological extreme and technological advance be weaponise to foster division . my Government have commit to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 per cent of GDP by 2030 and to ensure our gallant Armed Forces be equip for the challenge they face . in an age of great change , my Ministers remain united by a steadfast belief that the United Kingdom and her ally be strong when govern by value of freedom and fairness . standing shoulder to shoulder with the United Kingdom ' s ally , my Government have increase its diplomatic and military engagement in the Middle East to encourage de - escalation , deliver humanitarian aid to those in need , protect freedom of navigation and build momentum towards a last peace . my Government have consistently provide essential defensive military assistance to support Ukraine . the United Kingdom have lead global effort on the safety of Artificial Intelligence , host the world ' s first Safety Summit last year at Bletchley and launch the United Kingdom Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute - the first of its kind . at the Artificial Intelligence Seoul Summit this week my Government reach a new agreement between ten country and the European Union to work together to launch an international network to accelerate the advancement of the science of Artificial Intelligence safety . the Queen and I be pleased to welcome his Excellency the President of the Republic of Korea and Mrs . Kim Keon Hee for a State Visit last November . my Ministers have consistently promote the strength of the Union , include through action to support the restoration of the Executive in Northern Ireland . member of the House of Commons , I thank you for the provision which you have make for the work and dignity of the Crown and for the public service . my Lords and Members of the House of Commons I pray that the blessing of Almighty God may rest upon your counsel . prorogation the Commission be also for prorogue this present Parliament , and the Leader of the House of Lords say : " my Lords and Members of the House of Commons : by virtue of his Majesty ' s Commission which have now be read , we do , in his Majesty ' s name , and in obedience to his Majesty ' s Commands , prorogue this Parliament to Friday the thirty - first of May . " end of the Fifth Session ( open on 7 November 2023 ) of the Fifty - Eighth Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the Second Year of the reign of his Majesty King Charles the Third .