thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . for more than 100 year , since the dawn of universal suffrage , the people of Aldershot and Farnborough have send conservative mp to speak for we in this place , so it be with great pride and even great humility that I rise to give my maiden speech as the first woman and the first Labour Member of Parliament ever elect by my community . I congratulate everyone on both side of the House who have make their maiden speech before I . let I begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Leo Docherty , for the seven year of service he give to my constituency . Mr Docherty serve our country in the Scots Guards , as a Member of Parliament and as a Minister of the Crown , and we wish he well for the future . Leo will be remember as a champion for our armed force , and I have already learn in my first few week as an MP to follow the maxim of the Parachute Regiment , be " ready for anything " , include the moment when I be tell just a few week ago that a tornado — yes , an actual tornado — be land in my constituency . whatever strong wind be yet to come , I be truly honour to represent my home and the place where I be raise my family . today I repeat the pledge I make to my constituent on the night I be elect : " no matter how you vote , or whether you vote for I or for anyone at all in the general election , I will dedicate myself to serve you , our neighbour and every corner of our community , in Aldershot , Farnborough , Blackwater , Hawley and Yateley . " my politic have be shape by people and place : my volunteering ; community group ; resident ' association ; my church ; and my career work with business and community , from the co - operative movement to the regeneration of Battersea power station , where I help build not just the brick and mortar of a new town centre but a vibrant and diverse community , well represent by Battersea power station community choir , which I found . these experience teach I that every voice matter and that listen to one another be the first step to get stuff do . that be the approach I be try to bring as our new Member of Parliament , and I know from Danielle , Syfun , Katie and many other resident who have already come to I with housing case how much we need to bring great fairness to our private rental sector , so I be look forward to support this Bill in the Lobby tonight . the history of Aldershot and Farnborough be build on service and great british innovation . we be the home of the British Army and the birthplace of british aviation . our story begin 170 year ago , as our country enter the crimean war . it be in 1854 that Queen Victoria give her blessing for the British Army to establish a permanent training camp in a small village on the Hampshire border . the Aldershot garrison town be the first complete military settlement build in the British Isles since the Romans . and Farnborough be transform too , grow from a small railway town to become the home of the Army ballon factory and the Royal Aircraft Establishment and a hub for military aviation . it be there in 1908 that Samuel Cody pilot the first aeroplane to take flight in Britain . my home continue to deliver cutting - edge technology to this day , with every single Boeing commercial aircraft test in the Farnborough wind tunnel . above all , Aldershot and Farnborough have be define by the man and woman who have serve and sacrifice in every major conflict that our country have face . we will always remember they . today we be also home to the large nepalese community in the UK . the Gurkhas have serve our country with outstanding bravery over generation , and I look forward to serve they and advocate for they in this place . as well as our military heritage , my community have a rich cultural history . we host the olympic game in 1948 , when event be hold in the Aldershot lido , where I now take my daughter swim . we be the setting for several Bond film , the place where Charlie Chaplin make his stage debut , and where the Beatles give their first performance in the south of England . we need to shout loudly and proudly about the great thing that have happen and continue to happen in our constituency , and that be something I will always try to do . there be Farnborough football club , whose woman ' s team be league champion and cup winner after their first ever season , and Aldershot Town — the shot — who recently become the first football club to receive the Ministry of Defence gold award for uphold the armed force covenant . there be great charity such as Step by Step , the Grub Hub , Yateley Industries , our Rotary club , the Vine Centre , and many more I could mention . they be all make a tremendous difference . and the world still come to do business at the Farnborough air show every two year . but for everything that be right with our community , I know from countless conversation on the doorstep that many of my neighbour question whether our good day still lie ahead of we . I take that really seriously . I be ambitious for our town — these community that have play such a role in our national endeavour — and I believe that if we can bring people together , we can bring new opportunity to our home , breathe new life into our town centre , and realise our incredible potential . I be ready to play my part in that and hope other will join I . let I end with a promise , because as I begin my term I have find some inspiration in the work of the Royal Corps of Transport , which be base in Aldershot for many decade . these man and woman keep our Army move across land , air and sea , and their work continue today through the Royal Logistics Corps . they go by the motto " nothing without labour " , and that serve as a reminder to I that everything we discuss in this Chamber , and everything we hope to achieve for our constituency , begin and end with hard work — struggle , toil , effort , do our good . for as long as I have the privilege of represent my home in this place , I can promise that hard work be the very least that my constituent will get from I , every single day .