Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s proceeding , I would like to make a short statement . on Monday night , the House agree a new policy base on a report of the House of Commons Commission set out the step that can be take if a member be arrest on suspicion of commit a violent or sexual offence . this involve a risk assessment carry out by a panel , which may recommend that a member be exclude from the parliamentary estate . More detail of the policy be available on the House of Commons Commission ' s webpage . as the House know , the main motion , as amend , be agree to without a Division . no Member vote against the exclusion policy . however , I understand that some hon . member have receive threat on social medium since the vote on Monday . let I be quite clear : any attempt to intimidate or threaten any Member of this House be totally and wholly unacceptable . it be an affront to our democracy and to the constituent who elect we , and it be a contempt of this House . any Member who receive threaten communication should report they to the Parliamentary Security Department and , if appropriate , to the police through the parliamentary Liaison and Investigations Team , which will be able to investigate far . I write to all hon . member last night to remind they of the support service available to member . we take this very seriously . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . be it relevant to what I have just say ? it be , Mr Speaker . give that our legal system have in - build safeguard to protect the right of the accuse and that we in this place promote and defend these right on behalf of our constituent , be it not absolutely in order for this House to debate the extent of these right in relation to the exclusion of member of Parliament from this Chamber and the estate before they have either be convict or discharge by the court ? it be absolutely right that this House should have an opportunity to debate and vote on these matter , as it do on Monday night . I will leave it at that . oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Reliability of Rail Services what step he be take to help improve the reliability of rail service for passenger . what step he be take to help improve the reliability of rail service for passenger . performance vary across the network and be dependent on both reliable infrastructure and strong operator performance . where we have both , as on Greater Anglia , passenger enjoy great performance , and I be clear that this be a standard for all operator to achieve , work with their Network Rail route counterpart . I regularly meet Network Rail and train operator to encourage great collaboration on day - to - day performance , include convene a rail industry summit in March . with fare up and cancellation at a record high , rail passenger be cry out for change . in my patch , Reddish South and Denton station be serve by just one train a week . I would like a train service that meet our need , but the Minister seem to have put rail reform on the back burner . be that because he can not deliver , or he think Labour will ? the hon . member be completely wrong . the pre - legislative scrutiny of the draft Rail Reform Bill be be do right now by the Transport Committee . I think I be the final witness to appear before the Committee next week , so that it can , I hope , report in July . contrast that with the passenger - in - chief approach of meddle with the railway and indeed of a resource - lead timetable to fit the exist staff , and I think it be quite clear that it be the Conservatives who want to improve the rail system . summer have arrive and ten of thousand of visitor will be head to Chester and north Wales , and cross - border connectivity be essential . I remind the Minister of his Government ' s cast - iron commitment , make in October , to electrify the north Wales main line . when will the north Wales main line actually receive an allocation of real money so it can start work on the electrification of the line ? the hon . member be absolutely correct that the Prime Minister ' s Network North commitment mean over £ 36 billion of former hs2 money be be put into other project , chiefly in the north and the midland . the electrification of the north Wales main line be one of those , and it be something I be determined we will deliver . we be take step in allocate project time and resource so that we can advance such project , but bear in mind that the HS2 spend be for up to 2043 , so it will not all come at once . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . be it the case that train operate company stand ready to invest significantly to improve passenger journey , but a disincentive be the break clause in current contract ? ahead of wide reform that the Transport Committee be scrutinise at the moment , may I urge the Minister to review those break clause arrangement and incentivise that investment now ? this be the folly of Labour ' s nationalisation plan , because the good perform operator in term of punctuality be Greater Anglia , and that one have the option that be come up . the Labour party , if it make it into government , would take away the contract from the operator that have the good performance , show that it be all about dogma and not about good common sense . I firmly believe that where operator can deliver more for passenger , and indeed for their workforce , by have more certainty , there be certainly a case to be make for look at those contract term and give they long . my hon . friend know that after decade of closure , Kenilworth station have be reopen by a Conservative Government and a Conservative county council . however , the reliability , indeed the variety of service through that station , would be significantly improve by double track the line between Leamington and Coventry . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for the time he have already give I on this issue , but will my hon . friend do all he can to bring about that improvement , which will benefit not just my constituent , but also provide connectivity option that the northern leg of High Speed 2 no long will ? my right hon . and learn Friend have be a champion of that project , and as he mention he meet the Secretary of State to discuss it . HS2 be make provision for the project to occur should funding be available , and the new local transport fund make fund available for those part where HS2 would previously have be deliver . there be now a great opportunity for my right hon . and learn Friend ' s transport authority to fund the project that he have champion for so long . I call the shadow Minister . in the five year since the Government first admit that reform of our railway be need , passenger service have go from bad to bad , with a train now cancel every 90 second — the bad statistic on record . with the Transport Secretary openly admit that any reform this side of an election be unlikely , do the Minister understand why passenger have give up on this Government do anything to improve their rail experience ? I do not agree with that assertion . post privatisation — nationalisation would reverse this — passenger number have double , and £ 100 billion have be invest in the railway by this government since 2010 . we look at performance , which of course we want to get well , but in March for example , 70 % of train be run to time , with 2 . 9 % of cancellation . the two big cancellation failure during March be one trespass and one suicide , and the trespass alone cause 286 cancellation . yes , there be more we need to do , but the Opposition Front - Bench team would have a lot more credibility if they recognise performance indicator and what part we need to deliver , rather than just chuck dogma about nationalisation , which be a tired , fail old policy . D1 Licence Training whether his Department provide grant for the provision of training for d1 licence . although we do not provide direct funding for driver to obtain d1 licence , the Department make available more than £ 3 million a year through the bus service operator grant to community transport operator in England , which be predominantly charity operating vehicle that require d1 licence . they receive £ 1 . 60 for every £ 1 claim , reflect the increase cost face by the sector , and support they to continue deliver inclusive and accessible transport across the country . I thank the Minister for that answer . in Scotland , as across the rest of the UK , there have be a shortage of minibus driver , with Brexit and the legacy of covid fuel a crippling shortage of bus driver . passenger - carry vehicle driver can pursue career in various field , include public transport , tour and travel company , school transportation and private charter service . what more can the Government do to incentivise such training ? the hon . Gentleman might not be aware of the recent consultation to reduce the age requirement for bus and HGV driver from 21 to 18 , and I encourage he to speak to the Department for Work and Pensions . we be work closely with the relevant Ministers at DWP to have sector - base work academy and skill boot camp , to encourage great participation by driver . Rail Passenger Numbers if he will fund exploratory rail study on passenger number through the local transport fund . the local transport fund be a £ 4 . 7 billion fund that have be allocate to local authority in the north and midland to fund a wide range of transport measure . the funding empower local leader to invest in the transport policy that matter most to people in their area , and that could include rail study . Guidance will be publish shortly to support local leader in develop their plan , but it will rightly be a local decision . may I first congratulate my hon . friend on the award of £ 168 million to the East Riding to improve transport , whether that be pothole , bus shelter or whatever else in Beverley and Holderness ? the Minister be aware of my championing , alongside Labour colleague , Liberal Democrat colleague and the council across the whole area , of the reopening of the Hull to York line through Beverley . I be delighted to hear he confirm today that that funding can be use to explore and produce a refined demand model for that railway . will he confirm that ? my right hon . friend be indeed a great champion for this scheme , which we have discuss many time . I be pleased to confirm that the local transport fund could be use to develop the new rail link between York and Hull via Beverley . it be important to say that it will be for the local transport authority to decide , and I encourage he to continue to engage with it . our upcoming guidance will set out more detail about the scope of the LTF , and I be sure he will continue with his mission to deliver . Transport Connectivity : north - west what step he be take to improve transport connectivity for town and city in the north - west . before I answer my hon . friend ' s question , may I just welcome very strongly your statement at the beginning of business , Mr Speaker , stand up for the right of member to debate thing in this House and the importance of protect their security ? that be welcome , and I be sure it will have be welcome by all part of the House . in answer to my hon . friend ' s question , Network North will see a furth £ 19 . 8 billion of investment in the north of England follow the redirection of funding from the second phase of hs2 . Liverpool city region be one of six area to benefit from nearly £ 4 billion of uplift in the second round of the city region sustainable transport settlement . a furth £ 1 . 48 billion be go to the non - mayoral local authority to fund a wide range of project . guidance on how that should be spend will be forthcoming shortly . my right hon . friend know how important rail connectivity be to my constituent . it will be far enhance by the reconnection of the Burscough curve , a project that be also support by our hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) , who have her own campaign for a station at Midge Hall . give the importance of scheme that link area , will he issue strong guidance for transport authority to have well link between each other , rather than just within their own transport area ? as my hon . friend know , I recently host a roundtable , bring together he , his local authority , Lancashire County Council , local rail operator and other interested party to discuss how to far develop the business case for the Burscough curve . he will be aware that we have allocate that money to the local transport fund . Lancashire County Council will get £ 494 million over seven year , start next year . I suggest he continue the conversation we have have to urge the council to look at develop that scheme . we will be publish guidance encourage it to do that , work with member of Parliament in the very near future . you can think of Coppull station . when will the Secretary of State improve on the timetable at the time of Gladstone ? I be not entirely certain — the Rail Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) set out clearly the improved performance that we have see this year . we be clear that we be integrate track and train with our rail reform that be be scrutinise in the House , and that will improve thing . we have recently reorganise the Department , bring in Alex Hynes to link that together . that be how we deliver improved performance . we have set out those plan clearly . legislation before this House be be scrutinise by the Select Committee of my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) . we look forward to its report , which I understand we will get before the summer recess , to take those plan forward . we welcome the £ 494 million in Lancashire , as you will in Chorley , Mr Speaker . we have also be have discussion about what we want to see with that funding , whether that be at the Hare and Hounds junction in Clayton or just fix pothole across the constituency . one of the important thing in Hyndburn and Haslingden be make sure that our train station be accessible for everybody . we currently have a few bid in , include Church & Oswaldtwistle and Rishton . will the Secretary of State look favourably upon those bid ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for welcome the money that will go to her local authority . we will make it clear in the guidance , which I hope will be welcome to you as well , Mr Speaker , that local authority should very much involve their member of Parliament in discuss those priority . I hope that every member in the north and the midland where local authorise be get those fund will take advantage of that . on my hon . friend ' s specific point about accessibility and our access for all programme , as she know , a number of bid be make and they be currently be scrutinise . I hope that , in the near future , we will be able to set out which one will be fund . I urge she to wait for that announcement . I wish her good luck . obviously , I can not prejudge that process , but I hope that she be successful . will the Secretary of State explain why train fare have rise almost twice as fast as wage since 2010 ? the hon . Lady will know that over the last two year the Government have make significant intervention to keep rail fare rise no fast than the rise in people ' s wage . she also know that we have to balance the farebox against the taxpayer . she will know that , because of the pandemic , the taxpayer have put in £ 31 billion over a couple of year to protect the rail industry . passenger figure have not yet recover to their number beforehand . that be why it be important that , as soon as we can , we get rail company on contract that incentivise they to drive up the number of passenger use the service , which be how we will reduce the call on the taxpayer and enable fare to be keep competitive . East West Rail what recent progress he have make on the East West Rail project . for connection stage one of East West Rail . I be pleased to attend an event in March to mark the completion of work on the final section of track connect Bicester and Bletchley , with service expect to commence next year . at the spring Budget , £ 240 million be announce to accelerate work introduce service between Oxford and Bedford by the end of the decade . follow the announcement of the preferred route alignment between Bedford and Cambridge last May , a statutory consultation be due to launch this summer . the connection of East West Rail from Bedford to Cambridge will cost the taxpayer an enormous amount of money — the Minister know that , because he be at the Transport Committee sit right next to the permanent secretary when she say so — although apparently that be okay because a few landowner and developer will make shedload of money out of plan gain . meanwhile , the late chief executive officer of East West Rail have scarper because he could not stand the heat in the kitchen . as the Minister say , East West Rail be progress with a statutory consultation — have completely fluff the first consultation by not contact the right people — but hold it over the summer month while people be away . all the time , the project be be drive by the economic growth board in the Treasury , which meet secretly and tell people nothing . what can the Minister tell my constituent about this project ? I thank my hon . friend for his question — [ Laughter . ] he be indeed in the same room as I be when I be with colleague — this be an important aspect — from the Treasury and the Department for Levelling up as well as our permanent secretary to discuss the cross - governmental co - ordination that will be require to unlock all the economic benefit . as he know — we will not necessarily agree on this point — I believe that East West Rail be critical in deliver a workforce to Cambridge , which will allow Cambridge to compete with the like of Boston and city in south - east Asia so that those pioneer have a workforce and we can keep Cambridge , and indeed Oxford , motor on that basis . on that basis , let we go to Cambridge . thank you , Mr Speaker . indeed , some be more positive about the improved connectivity potential in and around Cambridge , but the Minister will be aware that his colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities recently establish the Cambridge delivery group , which be look to create 150 , 000 additional home , which will in turn create a whole series of transport challenge . will he tell the House what structure be in place to ensure proper dialogue between his Department , DLUHC and East West Rail ? the East West Rail growth board , which , as my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) point out , be be lead by the Treasury , will be critical to ensure that join - up approach . it be essential that we look at this project as an economic opportunity for the area . I have meet my hon . friend ' s constituent as we have both travel around , and I appreciate that there be an impact where there be housing , but if we do not have a workforce , Cambridge and that region will not be able to compete on the global stage and we will not see the pioneer scientific and bio - health development that we see from Cambridge . that be why I believe that this railway be critical . Bus Manufacturing what step he be take to support bus manufacturing . the UK boast a strong and highly competitive bus manufacturing industry . manufacturer have benefit significantly from Government funding as we work with industry to decarbonise the bus fleet . More than 5 , 200 bus have be fund across the UK since February 2020 , with UK bus manufacturer support many of they . UK manufacturer have grow substantially in recent year as a result of their success in securing order , support by £ 460 million of dedicated zebra — zero - emission bus regional area — funding . the reality be that the UK Government could do much more . at Tuesday ' s sit of the Transport Committee , Mick Whelan of ASLEF say that in Germany , they have german train and in Italy , they have italian train . he say : " before they award a Government contract , they look at their supply chain , future apprenticeship and all the thing associate with those contract " . why do the UK continue to destroy its own industrial base by refuse to implement similar procurement policy for all transport manufacturer , include bus ? there be too big a reliance on chinese import . as I say , UK bus manufacturer have do very well out of decarbonisation policy . they be every competitive , and I have have the opportunity in this job to visit a number of they . if the hon . Gentleman believe that there be unfair competition from import , he know that there be an independent statutory body , the Trade Remedies Authority , whose responsibility it be to look at importer where there might be dump . if he think there be any evidence of that by any manufacturer , he should provide that evidence to the Trade Remedies Authority so that it can conduct an investigation , as appropriate . I call the shadow Minister . the UK have a proud bus manufacturing history , from London ' s iconic original routemaster to Alexander Dennis ' next generation of hydrogen double - decker use today in the Liverpool city region . as operator and local authority decarbonise their fleet , UK manufacturer be ready to power that green revolution , but our bus maker be at risk from cheap model import from overseas . this week , a major UK operator be prepare to procure Chinese - build bus for ten of million of pound due to cost pressure and because this Government have not set out a full industrial strategy since 2017 . will the Secretary of State tell the House what he will do to back british bus manufacturer and secure their role in this green revolution ? the hon . Gentleman will know that it be not possible , give our international commitment under the World Trade Organisation , to specify that people have to buy british bus . he will also know that british bus manufacturer be very competitive . the Government have make support available to business through our Advanced Propulsion Centre and UK Export Finance . as I say to the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , if the shadow Minister think that there be any unfair competition with subsidise import , the Trade Remedies Authority have all the tool at its disposal to deal with that . we back british bus . we have fantastic manufacturer , and I have confidence in they . in a fair competition , our bus manufacturer can take on the world . Wrightbus have have £ 76 million of support from UK Export Finance to support its ambitious export . it be a shame that he do not have the same faith in british industry that we do . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . deary I , Mr Speaker . we have confidence in the bus manufacturer , and it be a pity that the Government do not — that be the problem . unlike SULEBS and ScotZEB — the scottish ultra - low emission bus scheme and the Scottish zero - emission bus challenge fund — the ZEBRA scheme have be a failure . no spin from the Dispatch Box can deny that , and our bus manufacturer be pay the price . we must learn from this , and we can start by encourage those purchase zero - emission bus to place great emphasis on social value and wide environmental and economic impact when evaluate tender . the Government must take responsibility . will the Secretary of State consider conduct a cross - Government review into prioritise domestic manufacturing within exist legal framework ? People be able to put social value into their tender . my understanding be that local authority do that , but they be not allow to have a specific commitment to buy from a certain provision . the hon . Gentleman have to decide whether he have confidence in our fantastic company , as he set out . in a fair competition , some of the company that have be mention — some of which I have visit — can win against competitor around the world . if he think that there be unfair competition and that company be be subsidise , he should give the evidence to the Trade Remedies Authority , which have the legal structure and the tool to do the job . we ' ve have one question about bus , and then a second one come along . local Bus Services what step he be take to support local bus service . the Government have provide over £ 4 . 5 billion to support and improve bus service since March 2020 . Leicestershire County Council receive over £ 3 . 5 million in emergency recovery funding to help maintain service during and after covid , and have recently be award up to £ 7 . 6 million to deliver its bus service improvement plan . as the House will know , the word democracy come from the greek " demo " , mean the people , and " krato " , mean power — power to the people . well , the 1 , 200 people in North West Leicestershire who sign a petition for the reinstatement of the number 16 , 29 and 29a bus service on their original route be not feel very empower . despite a very well run campaign , there be no movement from Arriva or Leicestershire County Council . what can the Minister do to help my constituent ? where commercial operator want to change a service , as I understand happen in this community , they have to work with the local authority to replace service where possible and limit disruption . I would point out to the hon . Gentleman that Leicestershire County Council have also receive over £ 1 million from the rural mobility fund to trial demand - responsive service , and I encourage he to meet it . my constituent and I be extremely concerned about Arriva ' s sudden proposal to close its depot in Aylesbury , with no warning that it be even be consider . the company admit that it would mean end the vast majority of its service in our area , cause huge problem for those who rely on its bus to get to school , work and hospital . I have demand an urgent meeting with its senior management , but what can the Department do to help hold Arriva to account and ensure Aylesbury resident have the bus service they need and deserve ? I be aware of this problem , which have recently come to light . I would certainly encourage a meeting between the local authority , the bus company and my hon . friend , and I will assist he in any way in that respect . I be aware that some local operator , in the form of Carousel Buses and the Oxford Bus Company , be run some of the service , but I accept that there be an issue in Aylesbury and I will help he on an ongoing basis . Air Safety if he will have discussion with ( a ) Airbus and ( b ) Boeing on air safety . both I and departmental official engage proactively with industry , include Boeing , Airbus and other manufacturer , on aviation safety . the Civil Aviation Authority , the independent safety regulator for the aviation sector , also engage regularly across the industry . I should point out that we have some of the safe sky in the world . the fatal accident rate of UK airline be among the low in Europe and the world . we have not have a single fatal accident involve commercial passenger airplane for more than 29 year . I be determined that that safety record will continue . the Minister might know that I be the chair of a manufacturing group for Members of Parliament . Airbus , Rolls - Royce and Boeing be amazing manufacturer at the heart of our manufacture economy , but do he agree that we must sort out the problem that seem to have occur in the manufacture of Boeing ' s 737 MAX ? do he agree that the fast our regulator work with american regulator to sort this out , the well for british job and british innovation ? I absolutely agree with the hon . member that they be amazing company with huge operation in the UK and enviable safety record . not one of the 171 Boeing 737 MAX 9s operate globally operate in the UK or from the UK , so there be no need to ground they . the Department for Transport liaise closely with american authority . the CAA follow very closely the work of the US Federal Aviation Administration to ensure that safety standard remain as high as possible . Helicopter Search and Rescue what recent discussion he have have with helicopter search and rescue operator on the adequacy of response time . the right hon . Member will be aware that the Maritime and Coastguard Agency be conduct an analysis of recent incident datum to examine whether the demand for the search and rescue helicopter service have change since the launch of the UK ' s second generation search and rescue aviation procurement . it be expect to be publish by the end of 2024 . I have have no recent discussion on this point , as the review be ongoing . I thank the Minister for his answer — he seem to be aware of the situation — but a new threat to search and rescue response time be emerge , namely the poor and deteriorate industrial relation between Bristow ' s management and its staff . as we speak , member of the british Airline Pilots ' Association who work in SAR cohort 2 be on strike , have be drive to it by a management who be play negotiate hardball on salary and on term and condition . will the Minister call in the management and make it clear to they that , as the customer , the Government expect they to treat their search and rescue staff with the respect and consideration that their skill and bravery deserve ? I know how important search and rescue service be in the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , and he have be a great champion for they . good industrial relation be clearly vital to ensure that they operate effectively , and I be sure that the MCA will keep that in mind during its review . I should add that just this morning , I agree to meet the management of Bristow . Road resurface what fund his Department be provide for road resurfacing . what fund his Department be provide for road resurfacing . the Government be firmly on the side of driver , which be why we be use funding reallocate from the HS2 programme to improve the condition of the country ' s local highway network . our record funding increase of £ 8 . 3 billion for local highway maintenance in England over the next decade will enable highway authority to resurface road and fix thousand of pothole across the country . the Secretary of State and his Ministers be well aware of my campaign for the removal of the concrete surface of the a180 . it be now six year since I receive a letter from the then road Minister tell I that the work would be complete by the end of 2021 . can the Secretary of State tell I when work will begin to remove that concrete surface and make the road much safe than it be at present ? can he give I a firm date ? my understanding be that the a180 be part of the National Highways concrete road programme and that there be a plan to undertake additional treatment to reduce noise substantially early in the next road investment period , which start next year . my hon . friend may wish to meet the road Minister to discuss the matter in more detail and secure some specific information about the timing . as my right hon . friend know , Shropshire ' s road network be the fifth long in all the english local authority area . last autumn , he make a welcome announcement about a significant increase in funding — £ 150 million — to repair and improve road , and he make another in February about the HS2 reallocation of £ 136 million . will he explain to I , and to other Shropshire Members , what that will mean in practical term for the amount to be spend on road during the next Parliament ? my right hon . friend be correct : Shropshire County Council will receive two pot of money , a minimum uplift of £ 153 million from 2023 to 2034 for highway maintenance and a furth £ 136 million under the new local transport fund , start next year and continue for seven year . those figure represent a significant increase on what the council would otherwise have receive . we will provide more detail shortly about the guidance on how the money should be use and , as I have say in response to early question , member of Parliament will be involve in set those priority . somerset be unfortunately home to ten of thousand of pothole . persistent flooding make the problem bad , but so do the lack of attention give to improve the resilience of our road . do the Secretary of State recognise the importance of future - proof they , with specific fund for local authority to spend on measure of that kind , as oppose to pothole funding that serve only as a temporary sticking plaster ? I be pleased that the hon . Lady have ask that question , because I absolutely do . part of our purpose in not only give local authority that significant funding increase but spread it over 10 year , so that they have certainty over a long period , be to enable they to move away from deal with pothole filling and to embark on a proper road resurfacing programme . that funding will pay for the resurfacing of more than 5 , 000 mile of road , thus deliver to the hon . Lady ' s constituent the improvement that we all want to see . resident in West Fenham recently say to I that car mechanic must be the main beneficiary of conservative transport policy , give the steady flow of work for they cause by the terrible state of the road . a local authority survey say that the road be in their bad condition for 28 year , and AA call - out be at a five - year high . how can the Secretary of State possibly say that he be on the side of driver when the road be in such a terrible condition ? the hon . Lady have just demonstrate why our decision to allocate a very significant and unprecedented increase in spending to improve local highway maintenance be exactly the right thing to do . I have notice that my local authority be busy resurface road across my constituency and the rest of Gloucestershire . the money we be provide will enable every local authority to do that over the come decade . I call the shadow Minister . at the last Transport question , the Secretary of State suggest that driver know what they be get with a Conservative Government . well , driver know one thing they be get from this government : more pothole — a hundred time as many as there be crater on the moon . in 2023 , RAC patrol attend 33 % more breakdown relate to poor road maintenance than in 2022 , and AA call - out be at a five - year high . the road repair backlog have go up to an eye - water £ 16 . 3 billion , which be far great than his allocation of money from scrap the northern leg of HS2 . be it not abundantly clear to driver , and to everyone else , that it will take the election of a Labour Government to fix Britain ' s road , just as it will take the election of a Labour Government to fix Britain ? I be delighted that the hon . Gentleman have ask that question , because we have set out our plan very carefully . there be £ 8 . 3 billion of extra money to improve the quality of local road . the Labour party have not back that plan and have not commit a single penny of money to local road , so the choice be clear : if people vote Conservative , they get £ 8 . 3 billion spend on road ; if they vote labour , they get none . Bi - mode train what recent discussion he have have with Network Rail on the timeline for introduce bi - mode train on the midland main line . a monthly meeting be hold with Network Rail and East Midlands Railway to discuss the introduction of the new bi - mode train . those meeting include notification of the late delivery timescale that Hitachi have provide to the operator , and an update on mobilisation plan and relate infrastructure upgrade . the aim be for the new train to be phase into passenger service throughout 2025 . I welcome the phase introduction of the bi - mode Class 810 Aurora train on the midland main line through Kettering next year . can my hon . friend the Rail Minister confirm that the new train will be fast , quieter and more environmentally friendly than the current inter - city fleet , and that they will have more seat and luggage space , and well mobile phone signal reception ? I can confirm to my hon . friend that these fantastic new train will be not only fast but quieter and more environmentally friendly , as they will be able to take advantage of the increase extent of electrification that we be deliver on the midland main line . they will have 19 % more seat per five - car train , and they be design for great comfort and more luggage space . bear in mind that my hon . friend be one of the hard - work mps for his constituent , he and they will be delighted that there will be enhance wi - fi and mobile phone reception , make his productivity even great . Gallows Corner Flyover what recent discussion he have have with Transport for London on the refurbishment of Gallows Corner flyover . I be pleased to say that the Gallows Corner scheme be recently approve at outline business case stage , with over £ 50 million - worth of backing from the Department for Transport . my official be liaise with Transport for London to progress the scheme to the next stage of the process , and I look forward to TfL submit the final business case for approval . I thank the Minister for his announcement of the funding for a makeover of Gallows Corner flyover , but I fear that we must do well . this be a major junction connect the eastern side of Greater London with Essex , and it be where the A12 and the A127 join together . my constituent in Romford , and those of the wide Essex region , will be disappoint that we be not get a fundamental restructuring of the junction to address the safety and congestion issue that I have highlight for decade . will he speak to Transport for London , go back to the drawing board , and come back with something well and more permanent that will put the safety of road user first ? I will certainly go away and write to my hon . friend on his specific point , but I reassure he that we be spend over £ 50 million to improve that particular junction . if my hon . friend have concern about the scope of the work , I urge he to take they up with TfL , because it be for TfL to develop the full business case . it be then submit to the Department for approval , which we hope will happen later this year . fire and Rehire what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to prevent the use of fire and rehire practice in the transport industry . the Government recently publish a statutory code of practice on dismissal and re - engagement . the code will address the practice of fire and rehire , aim to ensure that it be only ever use as a last resort , and that employee be properly consult and treat fairly . the TUC have find that since 2020 about 10 % of all worker have have to reapply for their job . and let we remember that in 2020 British Airways try to sack 36 , 000 staff through fire and rehire , which be stop only through strike action — the Government take no action . in 2021 , go North West in Manchester threaten the same and , again , industrial action stop it happen — the Government take no action . in 2022 , infamously , P & O Ferries unlawfully sack 786 staff before replace they with agency staff — the Government take no action . I implore the Government to outlaw this practice . rather than just bring in a code of good practice , they should be take action to protect british worker . after the P & O incident , in which worker be indeed treat totally unacceptably , we introduce a whole range of measure set out in our nine - point charter , include the Seafarers Wages Act 2023 , which will come into force this summer . we launch the seafarer charter , to which p & O have now commit , which I very much welcome . the code of practice on dismissal and re - engagement , which will come in before the summer recess , will give worker up to 25 % extra compensation if their employer do not abide by it . I call the shadow Minister . the UK minimum wage be £ 11 . 44 an hour , but last week , here in Parliament , Peter Hebblethwaite , the chief executive officer of P & O , admit that it pay seafarer £ 4 . 87 an hour . this have be an awful breach of trust . what more will the Minister do to stop company act like modern - day pirate of the high sea when it come to fire and rehire ? as I mention in my previous answer , many of p & o ' s practice have indeed be totally unacceptable , include on minimum wage issue . that be why we introduce the Seafarers Wages Act , which will ensure that seafarer operate on regular service in UK water get the minimum wage . we have also co - ordinate with legislation in France to ensure a minimum wage corridor for all service operate between the UK and France , which will give worker the wage they deserve . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be two year since the reprehensible action of P & O , and Peter Hebblethwaite ' s calamitous appearance in Parliament come four year after Willie Walsh and Á lex Cruz , the then ceo of the International Airlines Group and BA , shamefully threaten thousand of British Airways worker with fire and rehire , have refuse Government covid assistance . on Tuesday I ask the Minister of State at the Department for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , in this Chamber to confirm whether the new fire and rehire code of practice would have prevent this threat from be make . he could not do so , so I ask this Minister the same question . and if not , why not and what be the point ? in addition to my early answer , I should point out that the P & O case be be investigate by the Insolvency Service , and I await the outcome of that investigation . the point of the code of practice be to ensure that fire and rehire be very much a last resort . if employer breach the code , their employee can get up to 25 % great compensation . the Government have make sure that be the case . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last Transport question , my Department have be get on with our plan : £ 143 million for new zero - emission bus ; a world - lead sustainable aviation fuel mandate ; cut red tape for small - scale fishing business ; take step to future - proof the £ 18 billion classic car industry , which support ten of thousand of skilled job ; and ensure that taxpayer can hold local council to account for how they spend their record funding boost for road resurfacing , make possible by reallocate High Speed 2 funding . all Labour have be able to offer be an unfunded , incoherent rail nationalisation plan , put the union in charge , cut service for passenger and contain anti - car target , take we back to square one . give that tewkesbury be one of the fast grow area of the country , do the Secretary of State agree that we need to expand the A46 and junction 9 of the m5 , and not reduce its capacity or downgrade it in any way ? if any agency put plan to he to downgrade the A46 or junction 9 , will he reject those plan ? I be grateful to my hon . friend — and Gloucestershire neighbour — for raise that issue . he rightly set out that his constituency be one of the fast growing . he be a doughty champion for his constituent and I be sure that any agency thinking of downgrade any of his road network would not dare to do so , for fear of the consequence of have to deal with he on the warpath . I call the shadow Secretary of State . car insurance cost have increase by 80 % since the Secretary of State come into office . if he be intent on end the war on motorist , what have he do about it ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for advance notice of the question — she write to I this morning . I will say a few thing . first , she will know that the insurance industry be the responsibility of the Treasury , but it be an important issue for driver , so I be happy to deal with it . I read her letter with great care , and I notice that it contain no plan and not a single proposal to deal with the cost of insurance . whereas this week the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , chair a roundtable with Treasury Ministers and the industry to look at these important issue , which be also in evidence across Europe . secondly , have read the letter carefully , I notice that the hon . Lady take a pop at postcode pricing , which be about pricing accord to risk . it seem to I that she be propose — I be sure she can not really mean this — to put up insurance cost across the country to reflect the Mayor of London ' s failure to grip crime in inner London . remember that we be now in topical question , folk . give that the Secretary of State have advance notice of my question , I be afraid that his answer show how out of touch with reality he have become . car insurance be not a luxury but a legal requirement , and it be completely unaffordable for million of driver . there have be a £ 219 increase in the average premium in two year . instead of parrot conspiracy theory about 15 - minute city , why do he not do his job , take action , demand action from regulator , call in the Competition and Markets Authority , and act on soar insurance premium ? I will say a couple of thing . first , the hon . Lady call for action . my hon . friend the road Minister have already be meet the industry and Treasury Ministers , who be responsible for the industry regulator , so we be already do that . as I say , this be an issue not just in the UK but elsewhere . secondly , as I say , the hon . Lady say in her letter that she be look at outlaw the ability for insurer to price accord to risk in local area . I be sure that hon . member notice that she have not deny that , so they will know that she be propose for people across the country to face high cost to reflect the high crime that we see in inner London , where her Labour Mayor have fail to get a grip . will the Rail Minister join I in campaign to save Brandon station , which be a beautiful list building that have be out of use for year ? Greater Anglia , to its credit , be try to find a solution to ensure that that beautiful building can be put back into use . will he join I in that campaign and , if his diary allow , join I on 14 June , when we have a public meeting to drive that forward ? I will do everything I can . it be a beautiful example of railway architecture and it must be save , so I applaud my right hon . friend ' s work . I recently have a conference for leader in rail , at which I talk to all the train operator and Network Rail about bring these beautiful building back to life for the community . I have meet that team as well and will do everything I can to help he . it be now exactly four month since the Avanti management be catch laugh at the government — they be not on their own . they be laugh because they see the performance payment that the Government hand out to they as free money and a joke . when will the Secretary of State take the smile off the face of the appalling Avanti management by finish their contract ? when that incident occur , the Secretary of State and I make it clear to the team at Avanti and FirstGroup that that be not acceptable , and their senior management agree . it be crass and it be wrong . we often talk about Avanti ' s performance . the overtime agreement have be withdraw by ASLEF , which cause the start of the difficulty , but it have since be put back in place . when I look at the datum for the first week of May , there be pretty much 0 % cancellation from Avanti induce incident . matter be get well and , where they be well , we should applaud the staff . the condition of local road be the no . 1 concern raise with I by Aylesbury resident , whether that be pothole , congestion cause by countless utility work , or simply not enough road to cope with all the new house that have be build . will my hon . friend reassure local resident that it be under this Conservative Government and our excellent local conservative council that Aylesbury ' s road will improve for my long - suffer constituent ? I recently meet the council leader , Martin Tett , who be do a fantastic job , aid by record investment by this Government of £ 8 . 3 billion for road resurfacing and our street work consultation , which will crack down on utility organisation and ensure that they work much fast and much well . we be also give extra funding on an ongoing basis . every day that Hammersmith bridge remain closed be a reminder that this government can not be trust to fix even the most basic problem . do the Conservative Government have any intention of keep the promise they make in 2019 and fix Hammersmith bridge ? the bridge be own by the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham , which be not a conservative borough , so I will correct the record there . there be two phase of work : stabilisation to ensure permanent access for pedestrian , cyclist and river traffic — despite not be the owner , the Government have put money into that — and strengthen . we will do everything we can to work with the owner of the bridge to make that happen . junction 10a on the A14 be a crucial piece of future road infrastructure to support Kettering ' s housing expansion . should North Northamptonshire Council approve the relevant planning application this come Monday , will my hon . friend the road Minister reconfirm his commitment to give the proper direction this project need to proceed at pace , to visit the site with I and to arrange for I to meet with National Highways to ensure progress ? yes , yes and yes . Blackpool be experience the scourge of unlicensed taxi in our treasured seaside resort . uber and similar company , which have no operating licence in Blackpool , be allow passenger to use their unlicensed taxi uninsured , create a real public safety risk . these unlicensed taxi be park in local rank illegally , take fare from our hard - work , rule - abide Blackpool taxi driver . what be the Minister do to tackle these unlicensed driver , and will he meet I to discuss this issue in my constituency ? may I first welcome the hon . gentleman to his place ? he be a worthy winner and I be delighted to see he in the House . I wish he good fortune . the Government have publish update taxi and private hire vehicle good practice guidance for licensing authority in England . I will write to the hon . gentleman in detail and set out the particular point , and then we will see whether a meeting be require thereafter . in Horsham we have a significant problem with car race on specific stretch of road . do my right hon . friend agree that there be a role for speed camera in deter those activity and the real risk they represent ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise the important matter of road safety . he be right that there be a role for speed camera . decision for enforce speed limit be for the police and local agency . I know he have raise the issue with they . I hope our exchange today will continue to put pressure on they , that the campaign he be run to ensure safe road for his constituent be successful , and that the police take note . I call Andrew Bridgen — not here . I be pleased to have be tell late last year that Haughley and Ely north junction would be fund , but I have since become frustrated by the slow progress . I hear all the right noise from the Department , but when I talk to Greater Anglia and Network Rail , all I hear be frustration at the slow progress . will the Secretary of State promise I that we will get on with these project , which be crucial to Ipswich , Suffolk and East Anglia in general ? I can give that assurance to my hon . friend . I think his Labour opponent state that the Conservatives have not promise to deliver this project . in October , the Prime Minister set out that we would deliver the rail junction at Ely and Haughley . it be a project that the Department be keen on , as it be good for freight , and for our freight growth target . I will meet my hon . friend and his colleague who support the project to show they the step that we be take to get this vital project under way . the Secretary of State will be aware that the court yesterday award £ 25 million of compensation to 1 . 4 million passenger who be overcharge for rail fare between 2015 and 2017 by Stagecoach South Western Trains , the predecessor franchise to south Western Railway . will he ensure that affected passenger be not leave out of pocket , and get automatic redress , rather than have to make an historical claim ? I have be meet the operator to discuss the matter . I be happy to write to she , set out the exact conclusion of those conversation . I be always keen to ensure that passenger and consumer interest be protect and preserve , so I will write to she . I thank the Secretary of State and the Rail Minister for their support for upgrade to Pokesdown station in my constituency , not least the improvement to the lift , but the project have run into a few technical and financial problem ; will the Secretary of State or the Minister update the House on it ? I promise my right hon . friend from this Dispatch Box that the project would be deliver , and I continue to give he that assurance . I be sorry that there have be those delay . this week , I speak to the team at some length about the station . my right hon . friend know that I will visit he at the station , and I will have some more concrete news for he then . how reliable be the key performance indicator that the train operator be quote , which the Rail Minister mention early ? the Disability News Service report that train company be send unreliable statistic from freelance mystery shopper who pretend to be disabled and give overly positive feedback about the experience of disabled passenger . do he share my concern about that , and what can he do about it ? datum from mystery shopper , as the hon . Gentleman call they , can not be use unless those individual have the disability that they claim to , but there be wide mystery shopping experience that be undertake . I will happily write to he — in fact , I will meet he , see as he be such a great man — and take he through the step that be take into account . I also thank he very much for do what he always do , which be raise that matter with I last night , so that we could discuss it in advance . the reopening of Aldridge train station will finally give my constituent the railway service that they badly need and deserve . I wish to place on record my thank to the Minister ' s Department , the Government , former Mayor Andy Street and the West Midlands Combined Authority for their support in secure funding for the project through the city region sustainable transport settlement . will my hon . friend help I to continue to nudge Network Rail and other to progress this to completion in 2027 ? yes . it be a brilliant £ 30 million project , with 40 car parking space , which my right hon . friend have be instrumental in make happen . I will , I hope , meet the new Mayor , whom I congratulate , to ensure that he deliver the project for 2027 , as the fantastic Andy Street promise . More people be kill by cow and lightning than by dangerous cyclist , whereas around five people a day be kill on our road by motor vehicle — a level that have flatline under this Government . when will the Transport Secretary publish the long - overdue strategic framework for road safety ? the Secretary of State take a decision on road safety yesterday , so clearly we be address all these matter on an ongoing basis . I address the issue in a Westminster Hall debate recently , but I will write to the hon . member with more detail . the Labour Mayor of South Yorkshire have be give colossal sum of money by this Government . sadly , it appear that he choose to spend it on Sheffield supertram and Sheffield ' s transport infrastructure , not Doncaster ' s . will the Minister send a clear message to he that he should spend this money not only wisely , but across the combine authority , not just in Sheffield ? it be obviously up to mayor to decide how to spend the money , but I would expect they to spend it fairly across the entire region that they represent . give that fantastic Members of Parliament such as my hon . friend will hold they to account , voter in his constituency and across the combine authority area will hopefully make the right decision , when they get the chance . new evidence show that Ofgem ' s target charge review have lead to significant increase in public electric vehicle charger standing charge rate , which be pass on to the consumer . in one site in northern Scotland , cost have increase from £ 315 to £ 809 per day . what will the Minister do to regulate the cost of electric vehicle charge nationally ? I be the Minister responsible for electrical vehicle . the cost of charge be a concern to many ev driver . on stand charge for charge point operator , I meet with the chief executive of Ofgem , the regulator , early this week to discuss that exact issue . it be one of the thing that Ofgem be look at . how be the Minister work to improve the supply of roll stock order , to give customer a well experience , and importantly , to give company such as Hitachi order to bid for ? as an example , just yesterday an invitation to negotiate be send out by Southeastern to five train manufacturer , one of which be Hitachi , which be so well support and champion by my hon . friend . we have plan over the come year for 2 , 000 roll stock order , worth a total of £ 3 . 6 billion . I hope that , with our support , the benefit for train manufacturing supply chain will continue . road safety organisation and drive instructor be concerned to ensure that young driver have some experience of night driving . do the Minister intend to ensure that night driving become part of the test ? the hon . Gentleman know that the test have get more difficult and onerous for individual ; we have make it much hard to pass in the first place . we look at all aspect of post - test passing on an ongoing basis , but I will take the matter up with he personally . I be grateful to the road Minister for his commitment in an early answer to work with we in Buckinghamshire to find a solution to the crisis create by Arriva withdraw bus service , but do he agree that company that have be all too happy to take a taxpayer subsidy have a moral duty to maintain those service or give the money back ? we certainly expect those company to engage with the local authority to ensure the provision of alternative service . that be what we intend to ensure happen . the Government recently announce yet another consultation support mechanism for the production of sustainable aviation fuel . meanwhile , other country across the world be get on with produce SAF at scale . when will the Government get the mechanism in place , and will they meet their unambitious target of five SAF plant by 2025 ? on 25 April , we publish the SAF mandate , require 10 % SAF across the aviation industry by 2030 , and announce the revenue certainty mechanism consultation . it be an eight - week consultation . we have be invite the whole industry to respond to it . we have to ensure that we get it right , and we will produce the final result very shortly after that . Moor Farm roundabout in Cramlington be not for the faint - hearted . in fact , many of my resident have tell I that they actively avoid it . that be exactly why I have the roundabout clean and re - marked recently ; however , more work need to be do . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss a more permanent solution , and the progress that I have make with Northumberland County Council and National Highways ? as someone who know that roundabout very well , I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend , and to ensure that the good work that Northumberland County Council be do to upgrade and improve the area continue . Speaker ' s Statement before we move on , I wish to make a short statement about the Speaker ' s chaplain , the venerable Patricia Hillas . this morning , Downing Street announce that his Majesty the King have appoint the Rev . Canon Hillas as the next Bishop of Sodor and Man . I be sure that member will agree that the Rev . Canon Hillas — Tricia , our friend — have be an amazing colleague , and have face during her tenure some of the most turbulent , challenging and celebratory time in our history : the impact on the parliamentary community of covid ; the murder of our much - love colleague Sir David Amess ; the death of her Majesty Queen Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh ; and of course the coronation of his Majesty King Charles III . at every gathering , in all circumstance , Tricia have have a calming presence , exude her trademark warmth and give wise counsel to mps and staff alike . Tricia will be consecrate as the bishop in October , and I be sure that we will all wish her joy on that occasion . she take up her post on the Isle of Man , one of the old and small of the Church of England ' s 42 diocese , in the autumn . work on the recruitment of Tricia ' s successor will follow in due course . I personally will miss Tricia , and all the support and help that she have give I in my position . she have be not only a great Speaker ' s chaplain , but a great friend ; we will all be unite in think that . I be sure that the whole House would like to take this opportunity to wish Tricia well . conflict in Sudan : El Fasher ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Deputy Foreign Secretary if he will make a statement on the Government ' s response to atrocity risk in El Fasher , Sudan . yesterday we publish a write ministerial statement outline our grave concern about report of devastating violence in and around El Fasher , with civilian catch in the crossfire . in April , the UK lead negotiation , alongside Mozambique , Sierra Leone and Algeria , at the United Nations Security Council to deliver a press statement that urge the war party to de - escalate in El Fasher , and to comply with their obligation under international humanitarian law . we also call for a closed UN Security Council consultation on the situation . on 2 May , the Deputy Foreign Secretary publicly call on the Rapid Support Forces and the Sudanese Armed Forces to protect civilian and " spare Sudan from their wilful destruction and carnage . " we continue to pursue all diplomatic avenue to achieve a permanent ceasefire , and we welcome plan to restart talk in Jeddah . we urge the region to refrain from action that prolong the conflict and to engage positively in peace talk . we have use exchange with the war party to condemn strongly atrocity that they have perpetrate , and to demand that their leadership make every effort to prevent further atrocity in territory that they have capture or threaten to capture , as well as to press the need for improved humanitarian access . on 15 April , the Deputy Foreign Secretary announce a package of sanction designation , freeze the asset of three commercial entity link to the war party , and we will continue to explore other lever that we have to disrupt and constrain the source of funding that both war party be use to sustain themselves . we continue to support the Centre for Information Resilience , which document , preserve and share evidence of reported atrocity , so that their perpetrator can in due course be bring to justice . there will be no impunity for human right abuser . finally , we will keep work to ensure that the voice of sudanese civilian be hear , whether they be survivor and witness of human right abuse , sudanese non - governmental organisation , woman ' s right organisation , activist help in their community , or those try to develop a political vision for Sudan ' s future . UK technical and diplomatic support have be instrumental in the establishment of the anti - war , pro - democracy Taqaddum coalition , lead by former Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok , and we will continue to support Taqaddum ' s development . More than 1 million civilian be under immediate threat of massacre in El Fasher . the opposition have be call attention to the risk for several week . rsf plan have be slow , due to pressure from the UN , our diplomat and the United States , but that offensive be happen now at full pelt . we need the international partner with the most influence over the RSF to use their power now and stop the ongoing mass atrocity in El Fasher . every state must surely recognise that the ongoing collapse of Sudan into anarchy and famine be against its good interest , because the general ' war against the people of Sudan be a blight on humanity . the US have set out a red line , promise " direct and immediate consequence for those responsible for an offensive on El Fasher . " how will the Government back that position ? we need more pressure put on both the war party to move towards an immediate ceasefire and grant humanitarian access . we need the Government to consider all serious and rapid option for civilian protection . I genuinely believe that we need to support the resistance committee and emergency room . the Deputy Foreign Secretary be a good man who genuinely understand what be at stake , but the opposition expect the UK ' s collective voice to be hear loud and clear at this time , in the very hour when this atrocity be under way , so how will the Government act to protect civilian and ensure that our horror and anger be properly hear ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for her commitment to keep this appalling situation firmly on the global radar . in April , the UK lead negotiation at the UN Security Council , deliver a press statement that urge the war party to de - escalate and to comply with their obligation under international humanitarian law . as I say , we have call for a consultation in private in order to be able to move this forward . on 2 May , the Deputy Foreign Secretary call on the RSF and SAF to protect civilian , and to spare Sudan from their wilful destruction . we will continue to do all we can to bring about a sustainable end . we continue , of course , to work with a wide range of country and body — include Gulf and african partner , the Intergovernmental Authority on Development , the African Union and the UN — to achieve a ceasefire , and at the same time and most importantly , we be increase much - need humanitarian assistance and access to protect civilian . we will continue to lead on the UN Security Council , where we hold the pen on Sudan . on 8 March , the UNSC adopt a UK - draft Ramadan ceasefire resolution , which call for an immediate cessation of hostility . I call the SNP spokesperson . thank you and good morning , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be in a crucial moment of atrocity prevention in Sudan right now . the UK Government must accept that what be happen be genocide . the UK Government have be proactive in the delivery of aid and food to the civilian of Sudan , but how be they react to the grow number of sudanese civilian face famine and starvation , and what protection be in place to ensure that no more people be drive to catastrophic level of hunger ? the challenge of food security be at the heart of the most urgent humanitarian work . the recent integrate food security phase classification projection for Sudan indicate that the intense conflict and organised violence have drive nearly 18 million people into high level of acute food insecurity , so we provide £ 42 . 6 million in humanitarian funding in the past financial year . of that , £ 12 . 2 million be destine for unicef for life - save nutrition activity , and approximately £ 23 . 5 million be for the Sudan Humanitarian Fund for a multi - sector response , include a high proportion of food security intervention . the ongoing and develop crisis in Sudan be be fuel by weapon from foreign supporter who continue to flout the UN arm embargo on Darfur . how be the Government utilise their UN Security Council position as penholder on Sudan to prevent the flow of arm to the Rapid Support Forces ? the hon . Lady ask an incredibly important question . of course , a long - stand UK arm embargo be in place for the whole of Sudan , as well as a UN arm embargo on Darfur , and we will continue , as I say , to use all our diplomatic tool at the UN Security Council and with international partner to highlight that . as the Deputy Foreign Secretary have say , there be now clear sign of ethnic cleansing in Darfur , and the continued flow of weapon allow that threat to continue for long than we want , so we will continue to press in that area . our heart go all out to all those who be , tragically , be ethnically cleanse from part of Sudan . bear in mind our historical connection with that part of the world , what direct action will his Majesty ' s Government take , work with the United States , the United Nations , the African Union and other , to ensure the safety of Christians , who be be murder and force out of their home ? surely it be time for Britain to show leadership . the challenge that my hon . friend have raise be such an important and difficult one . we continue to work closely with a wide range of non - governmental organisation and UN partner on conflict and atrocity prevention , and on these really important question around loss of religious freedom . we be systematically prioritise atrocity monitoring and reporting , and be continue to increase our capacity when it come to human right and atrocity prevention investment . we want to complete that assessment in - country in order to inform how we can continue to expand the strategy and be very clear that all those who be commit these terrible crime will be hold to account . the scale of the humanitarian situation in El Fasher be horrific and demand urgent action . at the same time , Sudan be at the centre of a series of interlocking and interdependent humanitarian crisis that blight the whole horn of Africa . last week , the all - party parliamentary group for Africa , which I chair , convene a high - level summit to look at the issue of resilience and conflict in the horn of Africa , and highlight particular issue around engagement with grassroots group and increase ethnic polarisation . the Minister be here on behalf of the Deputy Foreign Secretary , and she be a friend of the APPG ; on his behalf , can she commit that he will meet with the APPG to discuss the incredibly important action that the british Government can take ? I be sure that in the absence of the Deputy Foreign Secretary , I can afford his diary secretary the opportunity to find a slot . I hope that the APPG , which will be do incredibly important work scan across a range of channel , will have the opportunity to meet with Alison Blackburne , who be our UK special envoy for the horn of Africa , Sudan and the Red sea . we ask she to do that incredibly important work from there ; it have be impossible to have a special envoy within Sudan , but she be a great and experienced advocate , and I will try to make sure that that meeting take place as soon as possible . I thank the Minister very much for her answer . will she outline what far step the Government can take when the elderly , the ill , those who be ill - equipped , the disabled and civilian be take to the street in an attempt to stand against the paramilitary and to protect their hospital and vulnerable people who be without aid ? it be not a question of if the city fall , but when , so how can we get medical aid and support to those hospital and vulnerable people at this very important time ? the hon . member highlight one of the most difficult aspect of this issue : the challenge of get relevant humanitarian access where it be need . currently , access into Sudan remain highly constrained ; Port Sudan be the primary entry point for relief supply , and onward distribution from there continue to prove challenging . Movement be limited , but the investment have be make , and of course , through our relationship and all the diplomatic tool that we use , we continue to work on find way to support those who be most vulnerable . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) on secure this urgent question . nearly 100 humanitarian group in Sudan have warn Elon Musk that he risk collectively punish million of Sudanese by shut down his vital Starlink satellite internet service in that war - ravage country . have the Government have raise our concern about the devastation that that would cause to civilian and humanitarian aid agency ? we will absolutely be raise the challenge of have those communication line open . there be real concern , and I will happily take this up with the Deputy Foreign Secretary when he get back . those of we who have constituent of sudanese origin can relate to the Minister the distress and concern in that community . there be particular concern about the fact that — I think this be now the estimate — anything between 500 , 000 and 1 million refugee be go from Darfur into Chad . could the Minister explain what support we be provide for those who be in Chad , because at the moment it look as though the agency that be there be unable to cope ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a very important point . I can update he that the Deputy Foreign Secretary have recently be to the Chad - Sudan border to see for himself exactly the flow that the right hon . Gentleman identifie . he see the " sheer horror " and " misery " — his word , not mine — that these appalling act have create , and he be very focused on ensure that we use our humanitarian aid to think about how we can provide support across every part of this terrible situation . I intend no disrespect to the Minister , but the Government ' s response just do not seem to be as robust as it could be give the severity of the situation in Sudan , which be horrific . she will have read report in the Guardian about child — alive child — be " pile up and shoot " by RSF paramilitary in El Geneina . what mechanism be the Government consider to prevent this genocide from spread to El Fasher ? as the hon . Gentleman highlight , this be an appalling situation . I have just highlight , in relation to the Deputy Foreign Secretary ' s visit , the sheer horror and misery be work on these innocent people across the area , which be absolutely beyond word . as I say , there be now very clear sign of ethnic cleansing and appal humanitarian abuse . we be provide support for the gathering of evidence , and we will continue to try to support those gather information on the ground — be they NGOs or civilian — to make sure that those who be commit the atrocity will be hold to account . as I understand it , previous regional effort to agree on the deployment of a peace - keep force in Sudan be rebuff last year , but I find it incredibly hard to see how ever - escalate atrocity and indeed catastrophe can be avoid without one . be that even on the agenda now , because otherwise it seem to I we be talk here not so much about atrocity prevention as about atrocity monitor ? as I say , we have continue to raise this at recent meeting of the UN Security Council , and decision on how to move forward to provide protection for innocent people will be take with international partner . with thousand of woman be kill in this war , the catastrophic humanitarian crisis particularly impact woman and the fact that woman comprise over 70 % of the internally displace people in Sudan , what measure be the Government take to protect woman in El Fasher ? the hon . Lady raise a really important point about an incredibly worrying situation . woman and girl be at particular risk of a significant escalation in gender - base violence . in July last year , the UK and 15 of other member of the international alliance on prevent sexual violence in conflict publish a statement urge all party to prevent violence , particularly sexual violence , and to ensure immediate humanitarian access . this issue continue to be at the front of the Deputy Foreign Secretary ' s mind and of the mind of all of our team , and we have pivot our bilateral programme delivery to ensure that woman and girl be at the heart of the support we be provide . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 20 May will include : Monday 20 May — general debate on Ukraine . Tuesday 21 May — consideration of Lords message on the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill , follow by a motion to approve the draft Scotland Act 1998 ( increase of Borrowing Limits ) Order 2024 , follow by a motion relate to the High Speed Rail ( Crewe – Manchester ) Bill . Wednesday 22 May — motion to approve the draft Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 ( risk of be draw into Terrorism ) ( Revised Guidance ) Regulations 2024 , follow by a motion to approve the draft Licensing Act 2003 ( UEFA European Football Championship Licensing Hours ) Order 2024 , follow by consideration in Committee and remain stage of the Holocaust Memorial Bill . Thursday 23 May — general debate on UK arm export to Israel , follow by a general debate on pothole and highway maintenance . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the Whitsun recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 23 May and return on Monday 3 June . the provisional business for the week commence 3 June include : Monday 3 June — General debate , subject to be confirm . Tuesday 4 June — remain stage of the Criminal Justice Bill ( day 2 ) . Wednesday 5 June — Opposition day ( 6th allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition — subject to be announce . Thursday 6 June — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 7 June — private member ' Bills . may I join Mr Speaker in thank the Speaker ' s Chaplain , the Rev . Canon Patricia Hillas , for all her wise counsel and support through some difficult and celebratory moment in her time as Chaplain ? we all wish she well on her elevation . I also congratulate the hon . member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) and my hon . friend the Member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) on their cross - party parliamentary inquiry into birth trauma this week . all of we who have go through childbirth can recognise their story and finding , although I do have good experience with mine . I fully support their call for a national birth strategy . I also thank all those member who take part in the debate on risk - base exclusion on Monday . we have a good discussion . the House have now take the view that a process of risk assessment for member under arrest for serious sexual and violent offence shall be put in place . since Monday , I have be strike by how many woman , in less privileged or powerful position than mine , have approach I to say thank you , and how that decision have change how they feel about work here . it might not always feel like it , but there be a watch audience want to see we , as a workplace and as employer , make progress on those issue . this week we do . last week , the Leader of the House and I launch a guide for mp and candidate on tackle conspiracy theory . we agree that conspiracy theory be a form of radicalisation , and we must all do everything we can to combat they . be she therefore as disappoint as I be to see the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) sharing in campaign literature a conspiracy theory feature in that guide relate to 15 - minute city , which be closely link to antisemitism and far - right movement ? just last week , the hon . Lady give a staunch defence of her action , show no contrition for the damage she have cause . will the Leader of the House send she a copy of the guide , and tell she why she have make a big mistake and why she should quickly and strongly renounce it ? do the Leader of the House think it be acceptable to Members that on the evening before the first day of the remain stage of the Criminal Justice Bill , Members do not know which or what amendment be to be debate ? this be an important Bill with a number of significant Back - Bench and Government proposal on issue of wide public concern , such as cuckooing , dangerous cycling , ninja sword , abortion , and one - punch manslaughter . the Bill come out of Committee in January . why have it take so long to get to report ? have take so long , why be member leave completely in the dark about what would be discuss and when ? with more than 180 page of amendment , include 22 new Government change publish very late the night before , that be no way to run business and it be deeply disrespectful to member . it be just another symptom of the chaos at the heart of this Government ' s operation and the disregard they hold for this House , and that be just day one of our consideration of the Bill . why be there such a further delay to day two ? we should be do it next week , not in another three . extended drinking hour for the Euros be welcome , but that do not need to be consider on the Floor of the House . be that because the Government have more handle concern and they be worried about defeat on the Criminal Justice Bill , or be it because , even during the Euros , they could not organise a booze - up in a brewery ? will the Leader of the House assure the House that any further amendment or programming change for day two will be publish in good time ? the future business be yet again so light that it be almost laughable , but it be actually not that funny . the country face huge headwind . family be in a cost of living crisis , million linger on NHS waiting list and community be beset by problem , yet the Government of the day seem to have nothing they want to change , nothing they be in a hurry to sort out and nothing to bring to this House . these could , we hope , be the last few month that the Conservatives be in power for some year . do they really have nothing they want to do with it ? if they have nothing that they want to use their parliamentary majority for , why be they even bother to hold on to it ? I assume that the hon . Lady will have inform the Member whom she refer to that she be go to do so ? I do . excellent . first , may I send my good wish for a full and speedy recovery to Prime Minister Fico follow the horrific attempt on his life ? I echo the comment from the hon . Lady regard the Speaker ' s Chaplain and wish she well on her next chapter . I thank Mr Speaker for his statement this morning , which be very helpful . I also thank Anthony Wickins and his colleague for come to Parliament this week to promote and help we all understand the importance of dementia support in this important week . I join the hon . Lady in thank not just the two lead member , but all member who help to bring forward the important report on birth trauma , which have have a huge response across the country . I know that not just the Prime Minister and Ministers on the Front Bench , but many organisation concern with the care of mum - to - be and new mum be take this report seriously . I hope it will do much good on this important matter . the hon . Lady mention my hon . friend the Member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , and I be sorry that she make those comment and imply that my hon . friend have antisemitic view . that be quite wrong , and I be afraid it be a pattern of behaviour of incite unpleasant thing . we have see it this week follow Monday ' s vote , which have lead to the statement that Mr Speaker have to make . I be pleased that we bring that motion forward , with the work that the Commission do and that we now have a scheme in place . I be sorry that all member do not have an opportunity to vote on that final motion , and I be sorry that one result of the debate be that our environment have become less safe for certain member — ironically , female member of Parliament — follow some of the action since that debate . the hon . Lady talk about the Criminal Justice Bill . she will understand that it be normal for the Government to talk to people propose amendment before a Bill come back , but that do not mean work be not be do on the Bill . the Bill deal with complex issue , and member will of course be give a good opportunity to have oversight on any amendment or change be bring forward . the hon . Lady talk about business be light . I just remind she that in this short final session of this Parliament , we have already introduce more Bills than labour ' s last four session in office by a considerable margin . if business collapse , it be not the fault of those on the Government Benches , but those who be here to oppose . we have even have that happen in Opposition day debate . it be our business , and we be get it through the House . if it take less time because the opposition fail to show up , that be not our problem . today , we have have the Leader of the opposition set out his first step , but he have already be on quite a journey . he get on at Islington North with a flexible principle ticket . he claim that he be take his party and we to Dover and Deal , but it be become clear that , due to industrial action , few train under a Labour Government and run out of other people ' s money , he will have to join a rail replacement bus service terminate at Rayners Lane . I hope for the sake of those at Dover wait on a promise of a train that will never arrive that there be a compensation scheme in place — perhaps a daily allowance in the other place . I do not think that the public , who have long memory , will fall for the stunt go on in parallel to business question . they have long memory and can look at what be happen in labour - run Wales . they will not fall for today ' s pledge card . economic stability ? the author of the " there be no money " note still sit on Labour ' s Benches . cut waiting list ? the only NHS cut that Labour have ever make have be not to waiting list but to its budget ; it cut the NHS budget three time . border security command ? Labour would end the new system command and legislation that be have an effect on small boat , even when it agree that that be work . public ownership of energy ? how be that work out for Nottingham Council ? tackle antisocial behaviour ? under Labour , crime be twice what it be now . those in a Labour police and crime commissioner area be 40 % more likely to be a victim of crime . new teacher ? there be 30 , 000 few teacher under Labour than there be now . labour have plan to tax education , destroy a ladder for many child and increase the burden on the state sector . there be nothing there — no vision , no plan and no principle on which to steer — which be why that pledge card will go the way of all the other . with apology to the Beatles , this Leader of the Opposition be a nowhere man , sit in his nowhere land , make all his nowhere plan for nobody . he doesn ' t have a point of view . he ' s no good for I or you . judge by this late pledge card , he be nowhere near good enough for Britain . in this Dementia Action Week , will a Minister come to the Dispatch Box and talk about plan to ensure that the NHS be ready to roll out early diagnosis of dementia so that people can benefit from potentially transformative drug such as lecanemab , which , for the first time , will treat the actual condition rather than just the symptom ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise awareness of that important point . we have new opportunity through these fantastic new drug and therapy that be come online and it be vital that people have access to they . it be also important that we learn from the huge amount of research into dementia support , which not only can be hugely beneficial to those with dementia and their family and carer but will save the NHS billion . I call the SNP spokesperson . first , I will take up the Leader of the House on last week ' s offer of a deep briefing with a Minister on what she describe as " some minor issue to resolve " — [ Official Report , 9 May 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 696 . ] in the border operating model . if , as she tell I last week , she be pay " great attention " to what be go on and still do not see huge lorry as they wait 20 hour at border post , perhaps she should take a trip to Barnard Castle . I would like to take the chief executive officer of the Cold Chain Federation , whose member certainly do not agree with she that there be no fundamental issue to sort out , with I to that briefing to deliver a dose of reality . may we have a debate in Government time on the careful use of word in politic ? the Prime Minister have refuse to apologise for his offensive outburst on Monday when he quite deliberately associate the Scottish Government with Hamas terrorist , North Korea and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps . the good folk of Edinburgh North and Leith have elect a dangerous extremist — who know ? — along with the vast majority of mps from Scotland who also want independence . all along , we think that we be democratically elect member of this House , just like the Leader of the House . Madam Deputy Speaker , you might think that the Conservatives of Brexit Britain would respect a nation ' s right to self - determination as a perfectly honourable political position . be it just Scotland ' s that they do not respect ? we will always defend our nation ' s good interest . maybe that be what terrify the pm and the like of the Scotland Secretary , who want to force ruinously expensive , untried nuclear reactor on renewable - rich Scotland . now , he be frightening our bairn with threat of a Unionist regime and Scottish Labour back in power to push through our overlord ' cunning plan — what a well together reunion that would be . would the Leader of the House remind I what happen to that respect agenda ? it would almost be funny if it be not come from this particular Government : an unknown number of prisoner let loose around England , the Home Office lose thousand of migrant under its watch , and an english court and justice system on the verge of collapse . but what be on the Prime Minister ' s new hate list ? what keep Tories awake at night with fear ? People like I , apparently . how laughable . could the Leader of the House confirm whether she believe that the Prime Minister be right to associate scottish democrats with Hamas terrorist and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard , or will she take the opportunity to distance herself from this laughably desperate baloney ? let I first reassure the hon . Lady that , first , there be nothing wrong with my eyesight and , secondly , she do not keep I awake at night . could I draw her attention to the news this week that the eurozone economy be grow half as fast as Britain ? let I repeat that : the eurozone economy be grow half as fast as Britain . the SNP ' s time would be well spend not try to re - fight past referendum of all type but focus on the issue today , such as the housing emergency that have just be declare in Scotland due to its rent control policy . the hon . Lady raise the very serious matter of the Prime Minister ' s language . I understand that , thank to the Scottish Government , people can now fill in a hate report form . if she have any concern , she can just fill in a report and pile more work on to her hard - push police officer . on the plan to put a nuclear power station in Scotland , it be sensible to plan for a Unionist party to be in government in Scotland . give the timescale involve in nuclear construction , that be a sensible and pragmatic thing to do . it be clear to everyone , except the SNP , that the party be in its final death throe . I predict that at the tragic finale , when the SNP finally completely implode and meet its end , there will still be no ferry to carry its member across the Styx . tourism be a vital component of Bournemouth ' s economy , and half of visitor to our fantastic seaside resort come by car . but if Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council get its way , Bournemouth could soon be subject to a default 20 mph speed limit , which will simply slow everything down . we will all spend more time stick in traffic , increase pollution , rather than at our destination . we already have designate 20 mph zone around school , for example , but a default limit across the town would not just impact on the visitor experience , but slow down public transport , delivery van and parent do the school run . the policy do not work in Wales , and it will not work in Bournemouth . please may we have a debate on council impose unwanted speed limit ? I be sorry to hear that this be happen in my right hon . friend ' s constituency . one would hope that local authority would learn from mistake make elsewhere , and stop inflict policy that do not work and cause huge damage to public service and the local economy . I be sorry to hear that his council be determined to press ahead with this . the experience have be dreadful in Wales , where there have be deep concern from the emergency service , which have find it difficult to go about their business , and massive cost have be pile on to business . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for make the business statement , for announce the Backbench Business debate next Thursday 23 May , and for make Thursday 6 June a Backbench Business Committee day . the Committee have provisionally offer debate for that day on hormone pregnancy test and the recognition of the Republic of Somaliland . the Committee be still open for business , and we very much welcome application for debate in Westminster Hall , particularly on Thursdays . I be also wonder if the Leader of the House would join I in — a pleasant little thing from my perspective — wish the warm congratulation to Gateshead football club , who be victorious and lift the FA trophy at Wembley last Saturday ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his very helpful advert for forthcoming Backbench Business debate . I will , of course , join he — I think the whole House will join he — in celebrate this wonderful achievement by his much - love club , Gateshead . we send our congratulation . may I first thank both the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House for their kind cross - party support for our landmark report this week into birth trauma ? the all - party parliamentary group on birth trauma publish a major report call , " listen to Mums : end the Postcode Lottery on Perinatal Care " . this be the first cross - party report by mps on the issue , and we receive over 1 , 300 submission from the public . I be delighted that the Prime Minister announce yesterday that there will now be a comprehensive national maternity strategy , which we ask for in our recommendation . will my right hon . friend provide Government time for a debate to discuss the important recommendation make in our national inquiry ? may I also ask she to write to the Prime Minister and ask he to confirm that he have now read the report in full , and to ensure that our recommendation be be implement to improve aftercare for mother in this country ? I know the whole House would want to extend our thank to my hon . friend for this landmark piece of work . I will certainly make sure that the Prime Minister have study the report in detail . when I last visit my hon . friend ' s constituency , I have the privilege of not just meet her lovely daughter , but the man who save my hon . friend ' s life . this be a very important report and I hope its recommendation will be implement swiftly . may I lift the mood of the Leader of the House this morning ? she seem a bit down . can we have more of a celebration of the people who work here ? they be now go to have great protection in one part of their life , but be it not about time we look around we every day at everyone in this Palace who work here : the people who clean this place , the security people , the Clerks ? we have so many people with long - term service in this place . yes , we could have a debate , but be there a way we could do something to make the life of these people who give we so much well ? I would be very happy to raise the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion with the House of Commons Commission to see what more we can do . I thank he for give we the opportunity , which I hope be echo by all in this Chamber , to put on record our thank for everyone who work on the estate to enable we to do our job and keep british democracy go . the Seret International Israeli Film Festival run for a couple of week from today . wonderful independent film will be show in arthouse cinema across the world . but of course antisemite be try to bully and intimidate cinema chain into not show the film and , in some case , be sadly succeed . would the Curzon or Picturehouse cinema chain decline to show film make by the black community because of a war in Africa ? obviously , the answer be no , and the reason be because that would be racist . so it be with those sick antisemite whose loathing for jewish people be so extreme that they be now try to boycott jewish culture in the UK . will my right hon . friend agree to organise a debate in this place to support jewish art and culture ? perhaps Parliament could even show one of the independent film , which have nothing to do with the conflict in the middle east , here in one of the Committee room , for example . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for give we a very good example of how antisemitism get a hold . it start with thing like this , which might seem a reasonable thing for a venue to do but clearly be not . the way he set it out illustrate why it be not . it be really disturbing and I hope that all member recognise that this community be really under attack . we need to be absolutely unequivocal and say that we stand with they , and that we will do everything we can to protect they and call out antisemitism wherever it be . this be Mental Health Awareness Week , and Bath Mind , a wonderful charity in my constituency that support 6 , 000 people , be worried about the reform of personal independence payment , which may plunge thousand of family into destitution and homelessness — with the associate mental health impact — and affect the charity ' s capacity to deliver service in the face of increase demand . may we have a debate in Government time about the PIP reform and their impact on mental health ? as the hon . Lady will know , many of the reform introduce by the Department for Work and Pensions to provide support have massively increase the number of people with a mental health condition or hidden disability who be able to access that support , and that be a good thing . however , I thank she for raise an important matter during an important week , and I will ensure that those in the DWP have hear what she have say . the Leader of the House may be aware that Cramlington , which be in my constituency and be one of the large town in Northumberland , lack a police station . its stand - alone police station be close in 2014 . more recently , Northumbria police open an office in Manor Walks shopping centre , but it be not an adequate replacement for a full station . despite the critical need , successive labour police and crime commissioner in Northumbria have not take action to reverse the closure . give Cramlington ' s population of more than 30 , 000 and its history of serious crime include multiple murder , its resident be in desperate need of a dedicated police station to provide reassurance and support for neighbourhood officer . will the Leader of the House please schedule a debate in Government time so we can consider what can be do to ensure that constituency nationwide receive the necessary resource to combat crime ? my hon . friend will know that the Government have confirm a total police funding settlement of up to £ 18 . 5 billion for the come financial year , an increase of £ 886 million on the previous year ' s settlement , and overall the police funding available to police and crime commissioner be up by 6 . 3 % in cash term . the resource be there , and we know that with that resource our incredible police force be halve crime . except in a few area notably control by Labour , we be make good progress , but of course these community facility be extremely important to the community that they serve . I will ensure that the Home Secretary have hear my hon . friend ' s specific point , and I will write to he this afternoon . Blackpool Rock be under threat from cheap imitation import from China in particular , and I have join Stanton & Novelty , a third - generation traditional confectionery manufacturer in my constituency , in lead the charge in safeguard the status of British - make confectionery . our seven remain rock factory be at risk of closure and be experience a 40 % drop in sale , which be jeopardise the livelihood of local employee and the viability of historic business . just 50 people in the UK have the skill require to properly " letter " stick of rock , most of they in Blackpool . these traditional skill will soon be lose without intervention , so may we have a debate in Government time to discuss secure our historic british confectionery , and save Blackpool rock ? hear , hear ! for the benefit of Hansard , I should emphasise that the hon . Gentleman ' s question be meet with roar of approval from member in all part of the House , and I thank he for raise an important issue . this be an iconic project : everyone know what Blackpool rock be , and I shall certainly ensure that the relevant Minister have hear about the hon . Gentleman ' s campaign . last Thursday , I accompany the Secretary of State for Business and Trade on her visit to my constituency , and we tour the port of Immingham . Immingham be the large port in the country , and the Humber port contribute £ 75 billion to the national economy . may we have a debate in Government time on our port industry and the benefit it give to international trade ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . our port play a vital role in the long - term growth of the economy , and provide essential access to global market . I know that this issue be a focus for many member across the House , even those without a port in their constituency . it would be a very good topic for a debate , and my hon . friend will know how to apply for one . it be Mental Health Awareness Week — an opportunity for we all to redouble our effort to tackle the stigma and call for improved mental health service provision . unfortunately , thousand of people , include my constituent in Battersea , be pay the price for the Government ' s incompetence and failure to deliver their manifesto commitment to update the Mental Health Act 1983 . the crisis need to be address . can we have a Government statement on the action that will be take to address this crisis ? when will the Government finally bring forward the mental health Bill ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue . I know that many hon . member across the House have spend a great deal of time on the Bill , include those who be directly involve in the pre - legislative scrutiny of it . we will bring forward further business and announce it in the usual way . in the meantime , I will make sure that all the relevant Secretaries of State , not just the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , have hear the hon . Lady ' s ask today . this week care4calais , a pro - asylum seeker british charity , contact I to ask for my support for its legal effort to prevent the deportation to Rwanda of asylum seeker in Dudley whom the Government have assess for deportation . I do not think the charity get the memo . as a result , I have write to the Home Secretary , ask he to speed up the deportation . can we have a debate on how we can stop organisation such as Care4Calais — which , as a charity , either directly or indirectly receive Government funding — actively undermine Government policy to stop illegal migration ? I thank my hon . friend for make those point , and I will make sure that the Home Secretary have hear they . he will know that the processing that have be go on in the Home Office have speed up immensely — by close to 300 % during the Prime Minister ' s tenure . those case be be crack through , but we can not have a system with finite resource that allow endless appeal . that be why we have bring forward legislation and why those who have exhaust the process , who should not be here and who do not have the right to be here , need to be send either home or to a third country . that be very clear , and the legislation will enable we to make good use of the finite resource that we have . I be go to give it one more try . give that the Prime Minister now think that around half of the people in Scotland , who believe that it should be a self - govern , independent country , be extremist , will the Leader of the House make a statement set out whether she agree with his assessment ? can she confirm , for the purpose of clarity , whether she believe that those who wish to rejoin the EU be also dangerous extremist in our midst ? the Union of the United Kingdom be critical to our strength . be it to be tear apart , which be the prime objective of those on the SNP Benches , we would be weak as a nation and the component part of the United Kingdom would be weak . Scotland would be weak , England would be weak , Wales would be weak and Northern Ireland would be weak . that be certainly a threat to our stability , which be what the Prime Minister say . if the hon . Lady think he say something else , she can fill in a hate form . the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) say that we should celebrate long - serve member of staff in this place , which be exactly what I would like to do . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Terry Wiggins MBE , who join the House service in September 1974 — he will be leave soon after 50 year of service to we — and Nick Wort , who join this place shortly afterwards in 1979 ? between they , those two gentleman have 95 year of service to the House of Commons . they be well worth celebrate . hear , hear ! I thank my hon . friend for do that . as he hear very clearly , we all send our good wish , thank and appreciation to both Terry and Nick for their incredible service to this House . neither the Leader of the House nor anybody else in this House need any reminding of the risk and danger of political violence , so I be sure she will share the concern of the whole House follow yesterday ' s assassination attempt on the slovakian Prime Minister . this incident be the late example of political violence across Europe , and it have bring into sharp focus the heightened and grow threat to politician across the political spectrum . give that , do the Leader of the House think it would be timely for a Minister to update the House on the important work be do by the Defending Democracy Taskforce to keep politician safe in our country ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this very important point . he will know that not only the Defending Democracy Taskforce but the House authority , our security and intelligence agency , the Home Office and many other body be very focused on ensure that not only we in this place but all elect individual have the protection they need to go about their business . the hon . Gentleman will know that some issue can not be air on the Floor of the House , but I will make sure that all the Departments involve have hear his request for the House to be update . perhaps they could offer more in - depth briefing on matter that should not be air on the Floor of the House . early this week , I meet guest from Police UK Disability Sport who be host by my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) . Police UK Disability Sport provide adaptive sport to the police community regionally and nationally , and will soon do so internationally . it propose that a portion of the annual proceed of crime money be make available through a central trust or under a police covenant committee , to which all police charity and not - for - profit organisation can apply , to support all serve and retired police officer through recovery , rehabilitation , treatment , and physical and mental health and wellbeing service . More than £ 330 million be seize in 2023 , and £ 1 . 75 million could protect a five - year project to fund sport event . Police UK Disability Sport be look to create a police version of the Invictus game call the Intrepid game . may we have a debate on use proceed of crime funding to help to establish opportunity for these amazing police officer ? what a good idea . I will make sure that the Home Secretary have hear it . it would be a fantastic initiative to have an Invictus game for the fantastic police officer who be disabled , whether in service or through another situation . early this week , the Secretary of State for Scotland seem to outline an intention to disregard democracy and run roughshod over devolution . the dangerous extremist on the SNP Benches believe that democracy be not a one - time event so , as we mark 25 year of the Scottish Parliament , could we have a debate in Government time to consider how this place can well respect devolution as Scotland advance towards become an independent nation ? that be shock news about the Secretary of State for Scotland . I think he be a man who respect the result of all referendum , which I think be support democracy . I think that a debate on how devolution be work and the possibility for the future would be very well attend , and the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee be listen . I would just say that , when devolution be envisage , the plan be set in place by party and nation work together for the benefit of all , as oppose to work against each other . Mr Speaker have generously give permission for a reception to be hold in Speaker ' s House later this afternoon to mark the 50th anniversary of the Spinal Injuries Association , which I be delighted to sponsor . Stoke Mandeville Hospital in my constituency be home to the national spinal injury centre and be the birthplace of the Paralympics . will my right hon . friend the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Spinal Injuries Association on half a century of work to support people who have spinal cord injury and their loved one , and do she agree that that be a topic worthy of debate in the House ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . a debate on such a topic would be well attend and he know how to apply for one . I be sure that all hon . member would join he in thank the Spinal Injuries Association and everyone who support it for its incredible work to support people with such injury . yesterday , the Trussell Trust come to Parliament to update hon . member on the late figure for the distribution of food parcel . it report that more than 3 . 1 million emergency food parcel be provide by food bank in its network last year . in Gateshead alone , 8 , 464 people need support , of whom 2 , 694 be child . I pay tribute to the important work be do by the Trussell Trust , the Gateshead food bank and other charity , such as Feeding Families , in my constituency . can we have a debate in Government time on how we can end the need for food bank ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important issue . she will know that the Government have put together a cost of live support package , which now stand at £ 108 billion , and that the household support fund enable local authority to give grant directly to individual who might fall through the crack . we have take other measure , such as our reform of welfare . the large share of people who be go to food bank under the last Labour Government be be transfer from one benefit to another , which be a situation that we have end . there be also more sustainable alternative to food bank in most community . there be still an issue and there be more work to be do , and I will take what the hon . Lady have say to the relevant Secretary of State ' s attention . may we have a debate in Government time on the Greenway landfill site ? I be grateful to Councillor Becky Clarke , Ben Collins , who be the Stig in a former life , and the Sampford Peverell Church of England Primary School for stand up against it . Mid Devon District Council , which be not the ultimate authority for this , have be absolutely useless , as usual . in fact , the former chair of its scrutiny committee , who be suppose to be scrutinise it , have do a runner . I be not surprised : it turn out that , accord to local , she be sack from the National Farmers Union and the Environment Agency , and then sue it . I have go on and on about local government not stand up for local people , and I will continue to do so . it be something that we need to talk about , so please can we have time for a debate ? my hon . friend make a good case , not necessarily for a debate on that topic but for an entire debate — perhaps an entire afternoon on the Floor of the House — about his council alone . as I do every week , I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have hear what he say . the Guernsey cardiologist Dr Dean Patterson have write to the General Medical Council to call for an immediate suspension of the mrna vaccine after witness at first hand in Guernsey the damage that they have do . Guernsey have only 63 , 000 resident , 93 % of whom have have at least two jab . Dr Patterson state that he see only five case of myocarditis a year until 2021 when the jabs be roll out . he then see a 500 % increase in case : there be 25 case in 2021 and 23 in 2022 , but in 2023 , when few jab be administer , the number of case drop to 11 . because the Channel Islands be a Crown dependency , they have no representation in this House . although the resident of the Channel Islands be british passport holder , they have no access to the UK vaccine damage compensation scheme . will the Leader of the House make a statement on how Dr Patterson and other concerned medical professional in the Channel Islands can publicise their concern about these novel treatment and protect their patient , and how the people of the Channel Islands who have be harm by the vaccine can get the compensation that they deserve ? the hon . Gentleman have find his own answer . not only have he give an example of a healthcare professional who be write to healthcare professional body , and many other organisation that scrutinise and have oversight of vaccine policy , but member of Parliament can raise the issue on the Floor of the House . it be very important that we ensure that the public know there be statutory body , third sector organisation and democratic organisation with elect representative that have scrutiny and oversight of all these matter . that be why we have a very safe vaccine regime , and why any concern about vaccine or ongoing trial be all put in the public domain . last week , a constituent who be dyspraxic come to my surgery to raise concern about the lack of awareness of dyspraxia . that have be exacerbate by the collapse of the Dyspraxia Foundation , so there be now no dedicated dyspraxia organisation in the country . I would love to say that the trouble I have with my voter ID be an ingenious way of raise awareness of dyspraxia , but it be not . will the Leader of the House support those with dyspraxia by table a debate in Government time to raise that awareness ? million of people across the country have it — a huge number of our constituent — so will the Leader of the House support I ? I be sorry to hear about the closure of the Dyspraxia Foundation . I know that my hon . friend will be do all he can to ensure that people have the support and advice they need . I will certainly ensure that the Secretaries of State for Education and for Health and Social Care have hear what he have say . he can raise this with they on 17 June and 4 June respectively . I thank he for his ongoing work , which be incredibly important . next Monday , have take evidence for six year , Sir Brian Langstaff will publish the final report on the contaminated blood scandal . it will be a momentous day for all those who have campaign for so many decade to get that public inquiry . do the Leader of the House know how the large treatment disaster in the history of the NHS — and , I think , the big cover - up by the state — will be debate in the House ? will the Prime Minister be make a statement ? will the House have an opportunity for a full debate on Sir Brian ' s finding and recommendation ? may I thank the right hon . Lady , her co - chair and the whole of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood ? they have perform important work throughout the process , include through the inquiry we establish and through look at highly technical issue , the compensation study and the work that the Paymaster General be do to ensure that the scheme be properly establish . it be hard to find an example that be more extreme than this appalling scandal and the successive decade of cover - up . there be still issue be uncover and come to light . Monday will be an historic day — I wish it have come decade early , but it be happen on Monday . although I can not give the right hon . Lady exact answer to her question , she can take it from I — I hope she understand that it be sincerely mean — that the report need to be give the attention it warrant on the Floor of the House . as I be sure the Leader of the House be aware , today — the 16 May — be Middlesex Day . will she join I in commend the Prime Minister for continue the tradition , start by former Prime Minister Boris Johnson , of proudly fly the Middlesex flag from No . 10 Downing Street to recognise the historic county of which London be a part ? will she congratulate Middlesex Heritage , the Association of British Counties and Russell Grant , in particular , for all the work they do to promote the importance of the historic county and the part they play in the life of our nation ? will the Leader of the House also bring forward a debate in the House on make statutory provision for the restoration of Middlesex as a ceremonial county , with its own lord lieutenant or deputy lieutenant , and indeed on all our treasured historic county , end the many year of confusion and loss of county identity ? this be particularly so in town such as Romford , which take great pride in be part of the historic county of Essex . I be very pleased to hear that the Prime Minister be continue this tradition at Downing Street . it be important that we celebrate our county and everything about their cultural identity : their food , their amazing landscape and their heritage . have hear what my hon . friend have say today , I think there be no danger of our lose sight of that importance , with he on these Benches . a significant issue across Oldham , Chadderton and Royton be the rapid increase in the number of house in multiple occupation . it be previously a big issue for our pub industry , with pub be convert into HMOs , but it be now increasingly an issue with family home . those home be be take off the market and sell at inflated price , because of their potential rental income , which drive the end value . the result in Oldham be 500 child live in temporary accommodation in single hotel room , because of the lack of supply of family home . this issue also bring into question the issue of Serco ' s Home Office contract . can we have a debate in Government time on the overall impact of housing policy , which include hmo , the lack of supply and the Home Office allocation policy ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important matter . he be speak to somebody who represent , bar London , the most densely populate city in Europe , so I understand the issue he be talk about . he will know that we have do a number of thing nationally to help ensure that , where HMOs be be build , they be of good quality and do not cram people in — for example , the reform that we have make to the Valuation Office Agency and council tax rebanding . I recommend that he speak to his local authority , which should have a clear map of where HMOs be and have its own local policy about the density of those HMOs . it have the power to do that , and that be what it should do , and its planning committee should be make decision on that basis . sadly , we all know that misogyny can lead to act of violence and sexual attack , and it be right in those circumstance that we use exclusion to safeguard staff and member in this place . but we should not forget that misogyny can also be part of everyday culture in workplace in this country , where woman be talk over , their idea ignore until man put they forward , and inappropriate comment be make — so - call banter culture . all of that can lead to so much more , which we want to prevent . can the Leader of the House set out what more the Government want to do to attack that culture ? can we have a debate in Government time to discuss how we can protect woman in the workplace ? before the Leader of the House respond , I just wish to say that we still have a statement and a debate to come . to ensure that everybody can get in , brief question and brief answer would be helpful . the hon . Lady raise an important matter . I be glad that we have take measure to protect people who work here , and of course the environment in which people work be incredibly important . equality Question Time be yesterday , but I will ensure that the Government Equalities Office have hear what she have say and will raise it with the Secretary of State . a constituent have contact I about how he be remortgage at an increase rate of 5 . 68 % . if he do not have ongoing cladding issue , his mortgage lender would have still give he an increase rate , but it would have be 4 . 67 % . an extra £ 600 will now be add to his monthly mortgage payment . I be confident that other people up and down our country be experience that double jeopardy , due to the Conservative Government ' s failing . will the Leader of the House say what conversation she have have with her Cabinet colleague on this issue ? the hon . Lady will know that ensure that our economy be grow , inflation be curb and interest rate can come down be a priority for the Government , and she will know from the statement put out by the National Audit Office early this week that the plan be work . Merthyr Tydfil ' s old town hall , more recently know as the Redhouse , be an iconic building with much historic significance . it be from the balcony of the building that Keir Hardie speak to the people of Merthyr Tydfil after be elect to this place as the first Labour MP in 1900 . this week , the Merthyr Tydfil Leisure Trust , the current tenant of the building , close its door — the late episode in a catalogue of failure . my Senedd colleague and I have write to the Charity Commission , ask it to investigate the failing of the Merthyr Tydfil Leisure Trust , but may we have a debate on what more can be do to bring this faceless and seemingly remote organisation to account ? I be sorry to hear about the issue in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . he have do his community a service by raise the matter on the Floor of the House and create pressure for that dialogue to happen , and for head to be crack together in his local community to ensure that his constituent be well serve . a few week ago , I bring up the case of my constituent who be savagely attack by a former partner while on holiday in Spain , and save only by the intervention of five man from Newcastle , whose statement , along with that of another witness , be never take by the spanish police . we write to the Foreign Secretary to seek his assistance with persuade the spanish authority to reopen the case to avoid a miscarriage of justice , but the reply that I receive from the Minister for Europe , the hon . member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) , be one of the most disappointing ministerial reply I have receive in my nine year here . indeed , the only suggestion for help be a broken hyperlink to a list of lawyer . will the Leader of the House use her good office to urge the Foreign Office to do more to assist my constituent ? I be sorry to hear about the hon . Gentleman ' s experience . I will certainly ensure that he get a well service than that . before come to this place , I be a modern foreign language teacher — I teach in Wigan and south Wales . I absolutely love it and take so many pupil overseas to give they that fantastic experience . may we have a debate in Government time on what the Government can do to enable young people to travel post Brexit and have those opportunity , which be sadly miss now ? I admire the hon . Lady ' s passion and thank she for her previous service . it be an excellent topic for a debate , because it would allow we to get on record the benefit of the ture scheme , which be now run — the same benefit that have be there before but on a global basis , not just focus on the EU . I briefly associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) and the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) , who talk about Terry Wiggins . they do not mention that he serve for 40 year play on the parliamentary rugby team , and just a few week ago help we to a glorious victory at Twickenham . as will concern anyone approach retirement , figure from the Department for Work and Pensions have reveal that the number of pensioner use food bank double after the Government ' s economic mismanagement — up 101 % in my constituency . can we have a debate in Government time on whether the £ 46 billion blackhole in the plan to axe national insurance will hit pensioner once more ? the hon . Gentleman may like to talk to some more pensioner ; he may find out all sort of thing , because they have long memory . labour may not think that our elder have a good memory , but in fact they do . they remember the 25p rise to their pension under the last Labour Government . they remember the pension credit maladministration — I think £ 10 million be owe to pensioner in my constituency alone . under the last Labour Government , 200 , 000 more pensioner be live in absolute poverty , and we have the fourth high pensioner poverty in Europe . Pensioners also remember which party introduce the triple lock , increase the state pension by £ 3 , 700 since 2010 : the Conservatives . in 1900 , in this Chamber , a Bill be pass into law to promote Alexandra Palace as the people ' s palace for recreation forever — a palace for the people of London . it be now an international venue , but will the Leader of the House and the shadow Leaders of the House congratulate the staff , volunteer and everyone who make this fantastic venue ? particularly in tough time when people can not take holiday as much , they can enjoy Alexandra Palace and Park — and while they be at it , they can volunteer with the Friends of Ally Pally Station , to make the entrance to Alexandra Palace all the more beautiful . I thank the hon . Lady for give we all an opportunity to thank the staff , friend and volunteer of Ally Pally and Park . she have give a great advert for anyone who be at a loose end and want to do something for that community . my constituent Rohanna have hope to have her indefinite leave to remain application expedite , so that she could fly to the Philippines to attend her father ' s funeral . my office put in an urgent inquiry , but get minimal interaction , and unfortunately my constituent have to attend the funeral online . it turn out that have the decision be make in time , the need for a biometric card would have prevent she from travel anyway . can the Leader of the House make sure that the urgent ILR application process be just that , and find a way for people to travel without a biometric residence card on compassionate ground ? I be very sorry to hear that that happen to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , particularly at such an awful time for they and their family . if he will give my office the detail of the case , I will raise it with the Department concern and make sure they do a " lesson learn " exercise . we want to ensure that people be able to travel , especially at such moment . I be recently contact by a constituent regard her 16 - year - old son , who have sadly be diagnose with Hodgkin lymphoma . as if that be not enough to deal with , the chemotherapy start at the end of last month and he be take his gcse right now . it be very difficult , and we have find a whole raft of rule regard when his situation can be take into account in those gcse . clearly he will miss some of the exam because of treatment or its effect . we have find out that the pathway be not at all clear and straightforward . on some occasion , only a certificate of recognition can be award , rather than an actual gcse . we would really like a debate about what more we can do to make sure that the pathway be make easy for child in very difficult circumstance and their parent . I be very sorry to hear that , and I be sure I speak for we all when I send our good wish to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent and his family . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education make a timely appearance ; she may have save I a stamp . however , I will write to she formally and make sure that she have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . he will know how to apply for a debate , and that be an excellent topic for one . Northumbrian Water repeatedly refuse to release information on the scale of raw sewage dumping at Whitburn and into the North sea . an appeal tribunal have order that datum to be release , thank to the persistent work of Steve Lavelle and the Whitburn Neighbourhood Forum . the decision find that Northumbrian Water have a desire to " avoid medium or political attention " . can we please have a debate on why the Government have enable water company to not only dump sewage into our water , but evade scrutiny ? first of all , what the hon . Lady say about this Government be not true . if she go to the Water UK website , she will see real - time information about the project go on across the country with every water company . that be the large infrastructure investment of its kind in the world , and it will dramatically reduce storm overflow . the reason why we have these release , as she will well know , be because of legacy sewerage system that mix storm water and waste water . we have to make the investment to put that right . when the Conservatives come into office , less than 6 % of such overflow be monitor . that figure be now 100 % , and that information be in the public domain . fantastic local activist like Steve — I have many in my constituency — be not only hold water company to account , but work with they to improve monitoring . this would be an excellent topic for a debate , because we will very shortly eradicate that kind of overflow . the Leader of the House re - register her leadership campaign website on polling day , so can her colleague look forward to more " pint with Penny " over the come week ? if not , she be more than welcome to a gin with Gwynne . I be sure that the House be very keen to hear the story behind this , but I be afraid that what the hon . Gentleman have say be not true . I have do no such thing . I have recently be contact by constituent about the imminent closure of the Hall , a small community space in East Village , Stratford — one of very few in the area . as we know , such space be absolutely invaluable . ours host load of event , include meeting of the Brownies and the Girl Guides . I be make representation to get Living , the developer responsible for that decision . it have , frankly , be responsible for a whole bunch of questionable decision over recent year , include during the clad scandal and on exorbitant service charge . can we have a debate in Government time on how the action of developer have undermine the olympic legacy and fail local resident ? I be very sorry to hear of the situation in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . she will know how to apply for a debate on the issue , which I think be an excellent topic for discussion . I will also ensure that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have hear her concern . clearly , a huge amount of work have be do to enable community asset transfer , and funding be available to facilitate that . I will ask one of the Secretary of State ' s official to contact her office with any advice that they can furnish . I thank the Leader of the House for this chance to ask an important question — all question be important , and this one be on an important subject . this week , I would like we to turn our attention to Vietnam . I be trouble by the recent arrest and conviction of Christians belong to the Montagnard minority ethnic group for their peaceful advocacy of freedom of religion or belief in Vietnam . one Christian , Mr Bya , be target and kill , yet the local police have fail to make any arrest in relation to his death . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn such violation of freedom of religion or belief , and will she ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise the issue with its counterpart in Vietnam ? I thank the hon . gentleman for shine a spotlight , as he do every week , on atrocity go on all over the world . I be very sorry to hear about the killing of that gentleman , and the response by the local authority . as I do every week , I will ensure that the fcdo have hear his concern , and I will raise the matter with the Foreign Secretary . my constituent Mrs Houria Nicoll be an algerian - british dual national . she go to Algeria to deal with the estate of her deceased parent , and travel out on her algerian passport , as her british passport have expire . she have be deny entry to the UK on her algerian passport and be now stick in Algeria . she be unwell and can not access any care or support from family or friend . the british embassy have deny her help because of her dual status . time be run out . will the Leader of the House do everything she can to work with her Foreign Office colleague to give my constituent some support and get her home ? I be very sorry to hear about that . I will , after this session , ensure that the Home Office and the Foreign Office — particularly consular service — have hear the situation that the hon . Lady describe . if she want to give my office more detail and the record of correspondence that she have have , we will do everything we can to ensure that she be give the right support to get her constituent home . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be very grateful to you for allow I to raise a point of order from the Front Bench . it relate to comment that the shadow Leader of the House , the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , make at the start of business question . she do notify I that she be go to make those comment , but after business question have start . however , this point of order be more about the content of the comment , which I personally find very difficult . I do write to my constituent over a year ago about a consultation that be be run by my local council on 15 to 20 - minute community . in that letter , I point to some of the rumour about 15 - minute city , because that be something that constituent have raise with I . that consultation be still live on the council ' s website — it be on page 45 of its planning and appraisal document — so this be very much a constituency - base issue . however , I find it very difficult to be accuse of be a conspiracy theorist on the back of that , especially as the vaccine Minister . whenever there be a debate in this place on that subject , the number of death threat and the amount of abuse that I get be overwhelming at time . I realise that colleague sometimes have valid point to raise , but there be a backlash whenever those debate be hold . more importantly , be link to antisemitism when my family in London be actually jewish , and have have a very difficult time over the past few month , be devastating . I kindly ask the shadow Leader of the House to either withdraw those statement , or just to reflect that while we all play politic in this space , sometimes thing be very personal . do the shadow Leader of the House wish to make a further point of order ? far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) for her point of order . can I put on the record that I do not say or imply that she be either a conspiracy theorist or antisemitic ? I do not believe that she be either of those thing . I be highlight the danger of sharing , however inadvertently , campaign that feature in a guide to conspiracy theory that the Leader of the House and I publish last week for mps . that guide be in the Library , and I would urge the hon . member for Lewes to read its section on 15 - minute city and the link to organisation . I thank the hon . member for Lewes for give I notice of her point of order . I be glad that the shadow Leader of the House be here to hear and respond to it . there be two important point . the first be on give advance notice ; I do check with the shadow Leader of the House that she have give advance notice . secondly , I hope that this have lead to some clarification of what be say and what be mean . I be not responsible for what member say in the Chamber , but I remind everybody that good temper and moderation be the characteristic of parliamentary language . I be sure that everybody in the Chamber would agree with that . I think we will leave it at that . relationship , Sex and Health Education : Statutory Guidance with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement to the House set out the Government ' s proposal for update the 2019 statutory guidance on relationship , sex and health education , which my Department have publish today for consultation . I thank my Department ' s staff for their hard work in get we to this point . this Government have a plan to deliver a bright future for Britain , one where family be support and give peace of mind that their child be safe , and be be equip with the skill that they need to succeed . good relationship , sex and health education — RSHE , as it be know — play a key role in that . however , follow disturb report from parent of pupil be teach inappropriate content in school , and request from school that want more clarity about when to teach certain topic , the Prime Minister and I decide to bring forward the review of RSHE . we have listen to colleague from across Government and the House , gather evidence from stakeholder , and consider advice from an independent panel of expert who generously give their time , experience and knowledge to support the review last year . I put on record my personal thank to each individual panel member . we need to make sure that the content of lesson be factual and appropriate , and that child have the capacity to fully understand everything that they be be teach . we need to make sure that our child be prepare for the world in which they live , but not in a way that take away the innocence of childhood . in short , we need to allow our child to be child . that be a fine line to tread , and school need clarity on how to approach the issue . overall , this guidance be underpin by three core value : first , that parent have a right to know what their child be be teach ; secondly , that teacher be there to teach child fact , not push the agenda of campaign group ; and thirdly , that school should not teach about the contested issue of gender identity , include that gender be a spectrum . there be five major policy change that I would like to set out , the first of which be the introduction of age limit for teach sensitive subject . the purpose of the new age limit be to make sure child be not teach thing before they be ready to understand they . inform by the advice of the independent panel and other , the guidance place specific age limit on the teaching of certain subject . in primary school , child learn about the importance of boundary and privacy and that they have right over their own body , but no 10 - year - old should be teach about the detail of intimate sexual act , sexual harassment or sexual violence . in primary school , sex education be not a requirement , and should only be introduce from year 5 onwards . its content should align with the national curriculum ' s science teaching on conception and birth , ensure that it be root in fact . it should absolutely not be prepare primary - age child for sexual activity . the second flagship change be complete openness with parent . parent be their child ' s first teacher , and they must know what they be be teach . the guidance contain a new section that make the need for transparency with parent crystal clear and clarify the scope within the law to share material . the bottom line be that curriculum provider should not be seek to hide their material from parent . that practice be completely unacceptable : parent have a fundamental right to know what their child be be teach about healthy relationship , sex and development . the third area be teach about gender reassignment . many school have tell we that they need clear guidance to help they teach about this highly sensitive and complex issue in a way that be factual and safe . we be make it absolutely clear that the contest topic of gender identity should not be teach in school at any age . school should not be provide classroom material that , for example , include the view that gender be a spectrum . while protect characteristic such as gender reassignment should be teach about , that must be do on a factual basis at an appropriate age and must not be base on contested ideology . that reflect the cautious , common - sense approach that we have take in our guidance on child question their gender , and also reflect the recommendation of the Cass review . there be also a dedicated section on sexual harassment and sexual violence . the growth of malign influencer online who pose a risk to child and young people have be significant . it be one of the key way in which the world have change for young people since the guidance be originally publish — and , indeed , since all of we Members be in school . that new section cover some specific type of abusive behaviour that be not previously discuss , such as stalk , as well as advice for teacher about how to address dangerous , misogynistic online influencer . I would now like to consider the sensitive , but important , issue of suicide prevention . minister and I have meet bereaved family , expert and teacher to explore how suicide prevention could be teach as part of RSHE , and I pay tribute to the incredible work of 3 Dads Walking , who have use the unimaginable tragedy in their life to campaign for important change . the current RSHE guidance already include content about teach pupil to look after their mental wellbeing and support themselves and their friend . we have now make clear how that content on mental wellbeing relate to suicide prevention . of course , the topic of suicide itself need to be handle sensitively and skilfully , and not before pupil be ready to understand it . obviously , child ' s maturity vary , but our engagement suggest that child typically develop the necessary understanding from when they be in year 8 . we have make sure that the update guidance acknowledge that it can be important to discuss this topic with pupil , and have add advice to set out how school could address suicide prevention in their teaching . finally , the guidance also include the new topic of personal safety , which cover additional content on understand the law on carry knife and knife crime , and on the danger of fire , road , railway and water . together , I be confident that this guidance will give teacher and headteacher clarity about what should and should not be teach . it will provide parent with the peace of mind that their child be be teach in a safe and factual manner , and it will reassure everyone across society that pupil be be teach what they need to know at the right age and time in their life . a copy of the guidance have be deposit in the Libraries of both Houses . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . labour ' s approach start from the belief that education should prepare our child for the world in which they live and the future that they , together , will shape . to achieve that , and to give each and every child the opportunity and the future they deserve , relationship , sex and health education must be an integral part of every child ' s education . the content of such education must be both age - appropriate and teach in a respectful manner , as well as tailor to the reality of child ' s life . the Secretary of State have set out that the Government intend to achieve this through the introduction of age limit on certain aspect of this curriculum . today ' s statement have be long in the making . alongside school leader , we have consistently push for clear guidance on these issue to be introduce so school leader and teacher can feel confident and support in what they be teach . while we be pleased that the guidance have at last be publish , there be deep concern about the lack of consultation with school leader in develop the guidance so far . if the Government be serious about ensure that RSHE be teach in a dignified and respectful manner , and in a way that schoolteacher and school leader feel they can confidently deliver , they must ensure that the voice of school leader and teacher be hear . I want to ask the Secretary of State to address a couple of concern in particular . the first concern arise from the reality that education be one of our strong lever for prevent child abuse . it be crucial at a time of rise level of sexual offence against child , especially our young child , that child be empower to recognise when something be not right . the Secretary of State will know that sometimes such issue arise urgently , in a class or a wide school community , outside the timeline that a teacher may have in mind , and perhaps even before the age limit she be propose . so will she say something about the ability of teacher to respond to and reflect such concern in future in the context of age limit , especially when they arise among young child ? the second concern be about the importance of child learn not just about their own relationship tomorrow , but about their own and other people ' s family today . the opposition believe that what matter about family be not the shape they have , but the love they give . teach child about the fact of the world in which they grow up must include an understanding that there be people who be transgender , that people can go through a process to change their gender and that the law provide for that . the Secretary of State outline a little of her thinking in her statement and on Radio 4 this morning , but could she set it out in more detail for the House ? on some of the other issue raise by this guidance , Labour very much welcome the intention of the guidance to remove the barrier that some parent face when ask what be be teach to their child . of course parent should know what their child be be teach . while provider be already require to do this , it be acknowledge that there have be issue with interpretation of copyright legislation , and it be absolutely right that minister seek to clarify this issue . we also welcome the fact that there will be additional content on suicide prevention in the secondary curriculum , as well as on the risk of self - harm and suicide content on social medium . however , it need to be back up with support in school to adequately address the challenge that far too many child and young people face with their mental health . Labour have a fund plan to ensure that every young person will have access to a specialist mental health professional at secondary school , and a plan for mental health hub in every community . while we await the next Labour Government , this Government must urgently set out how they will get down the waiting list for child and adolescent mental health service , and deliver support to the child and young people who need it most . we also welcome the inclusion of content on sexual harassment and sexual violence . yesterday , I join the leader of Redbridge Council and teacher to hear about the innovative step in programme that they be deliver in school to tackle sexist harassment and misogyny . it be really inspiring to see the student so confidently address the issue with their peer and change attitude . I hope that , as part of the review , the Government will look at some of the fantastic resource local authority have develop while wait for the Government to act . we will now need to look at the exact detail of the draft guidance , as will school . it be really important that stakeholder from across education be able to feed back their view on this , and I hope the Government will reflect on they when finalise this guidance , and listen to the voice of school , parent and young people in do so . I would like to address the hon . Lady ' s point ; I think I make a note of all of they . first , on this be long in the making , I just want we all to be aware of the timeline . this guidance be issue in 2019 , and it be make statutory in 2020 . Ofsted conduct some work to see how it be bed in , which give we some feedback and comment about how more clarity be need . that be in the second half of 2021 . obviously , we have take leadership on this issue — leadership on which I think Labour - run Wales could take a leaf out of our book — and work with a broad range of organisation . I have mention the expert panel , but we have work with 86 other organisation as well . of course , this step be out for consultation , so we do expect that everybody who have a view — parent , teacher , local authority and everybody — will be able to fully engage with the consultation . on the question about when an urgent issue come up , or a child want to ask question or deal with something specific that they have see or that have occur to they , we of course expect that child can always ask question . we build safe and trusting environment in school , and there be a difference between a pupil ask a teacher a question or try to discuss something with a teacher and a teacher stand up in front of a whole class and teaching on a particular subject . on the question about know about transgender — that gender reassignment exist , a law provide for it , it be a protect characteristic and it be something adult can do when they be old — and understand those fact , we have of course make it clear that that be the case . on mental health support team , the Labour party seem to have miss what we have be do on mental health . in every school in our country , we have give a grant to train a mental health support leader , and most of that work have be do . our school have be engage on that for a long time , and 4 . 2 million pupil , up from 3 . 4 million pupil last year , now have access to the mental health support team that we be roll out in all of our school . that be rather different from the labour policy in that we do not have to completely raid any other sector such as support for special educational need and disability or private school to do that . we be also do that for primary and secondary , because we think that be very important . the hon . Lady mention material , and I just want to update the House that Oak material will be available in RSHE in the autumn . I call the Father of the House . I thank the Secretary of State for put forward proposal that child need and that teacher , parent and school leader have want . it seem to I that a lot of people be now say , " of course , what she ' s do be right " , and a year or two ago they be not say that . I would just say in pass that some people who have be provide sex education lesson and gender lesson in primary school boast that they have present to 100 , 000 child and train over 4 , 000 staff , and I think that kind of infiltration have to end . can I also say to the Secretary of State that I hope her permanent secretary and other be listen to their seen — sex equality and equity network — when they raise , or try to raise , the point with their Departments that when department ask question about gender , they should be ask question about sex ? I thank the Father of the House , who , as usual , show true leadership in this area , as in many other . he be absolutely right that there be example of organisation with material on their website that we think be inappropriate , because it be teach contest view as fact , boast about how many school they have work with . some organisation — I will not name they — have be teach child about gender , gender expression , gender role and different kind of gender identity , and they claim to have work with over 500 school . there be many example of that . that be why we have to show leadership on this . this be important : we have show leadership in the area of gender questioning , and we have be clear about biological sex and how to teach that in school . in labour - run Wales , I believe they have remove all reference to " man " and " woman " in the curriculum , and they recommend that sex be not just about male or female . I want to look into whether those report be true , but I would be happy to support the Welsh Cabinet Secretary for Education with that , because it need to be take seriously . People have very much change their view on this issue . the Children ' s Commissioner have find that exposure to pornography be affect child as young as eight — I be sure none of we would want that to be the case , but we have to deal with the world as it be , not as we might wish it to be . how will the Secretary of State support school to manage pupil ' reaction to what they be see online — we know they be be expose to thing online that we wish they be not see — if those issue can not be address in RSHE ? part of leadership and show leadership be also deal with those thing we be not happy with . we be not happy that young child be have access to porn , which be why other measure be also be put in place through the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . of course , it be always possible that child get access to thing that they should not see , and they might raise question as a result of that . usually , parent be the first educator of their child . parent would be the first people to get that question , and they would certainly expect to help their child through those thing . as I say , if a child raise a question with a teacher , the teacher will deal with that , but that be different from teach and show anything that be sexually explicit in a classroom . we want to ensure that child be not expose to such thing in the first place , because this be something that have change , and we must show leadership to address that . in answer to a question on 29 April , the Minister for Schools , my right hon . Friend Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , strongly endorse the importance of section 406 and 407 of the Education Act 1996 , which respectively ban the promotion of partisan political view , and require the balanced presentation of oppose view when politically contentious subject be bring to the attention of pupil . Gender ideology be certainly politically contentious , and I be concern to be alert by Mrs Clare Page , the educational commentator and campaigner , to the Department ' s " political impartiality in school " guidance 2022 , which state : " legal duty on political impartiality do not supersede school ' other statutory requirement . school should take a reasonable and proportionate approach to ensure political impartiality , alongside their other responsibility . " I do not know how you would read that , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I read it as an attempt to undermine the firm guidance give in statute law that partisan political view must not be promote in school . I hope the Secretary of State will look into that matter . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise that point . political impartiality be important , and the guidance he read out be mean to cover some commonsense exception . for example , some people would argue against democracy , and we do not want to give they a platform ; some people would argue for racism , and we do not want to give they a platform , and so on . those be the sort of exception and contention , and I will ensure that we look at the guidance to see that it be clearly understand by everybody . it be important to be clear . this issue have develop and grow , and our understanding of this area have grow over time . that be what the guidance be mean to do ; it be not to undermine political impartiality or the rule of law . in review the 2019 guidance , do the Secretary of State share my concern that not enough be be do on child safeguarding when it come to child sexual exploitation , and in particular awareness raising , so that child and parent understand the warning sign ? across many town a play call " somebody ' s Sister , somebody ' s daughter " be roll out to secondary - school age child , and that lead to 150 disclosure of concern by child about family member or other pupil at the school , where they have see those pattern of groom potentially at play . do the Secretary of State accept that however we want the world to be , 43 % of year 3 child — seven and eight - year - old — have access to a smartphone ? if we do not teach these thing in school , they will find out information through other route , and that will not be at all helpful for the safeguarding of child . another approach be obviously look at access to smartphone at a very young age . on the point raise by the hon . Gentleman , the most appropriate guidance be " keep child safe in education " , which be a substantial piece of guidance and use regularly by school . it be also regularly review . of course there be a live discussion about our concern regard child have access to harmful content through mobile phone at a young age . we will continue to consider that , and that be why I take a step to also ban the use of smartphone in school . the poet John Betjeman say : " Childhood be measure out by sound and smell and sight , before the dark hour of reason grow . " darkness fall when very young child be force to know too much , too early , and their innocence be steal . in warmly welcome the Government ' s approach , will the Secretary of State look again at those third - party organisation that be often invite into school , sometimes witlessly , sometimes carelessly ? for they steal child ' s innocence , often in the name of diversity and inclusion , and in so doing , promote , promulgate and perpetuate every kind of horror . not only will I now be able to look at the material , but so will parent , and so will ofste when it review what be happen in school against the guidance we have issue . transparency be important . obviously we should ensure that material be appropriate and the guidance be there as well , but I believe that transparency will act as a great guide to ensure the right material be in our school . the Secretary of State and I grow up in the same part of the world , a few hundred yard away from each other , albeit at different time . in my time , there be no way in which child could discuss these issue with their parent , who do not feel that it be at all appropriate . they be certainly never discuss in my school , just as I be sure that in the Secretary of State ' s later time they be not discuss . the most I can remember be be show a second world war film by a PE teacher about sexually transmit disease , which frankly terrify I . I be sure the Secretary of State will agree that it be time that teacher get the guidance they need so that they can have sensible conversation with young people and — for that matter — parent as well . do she agree that we need to have this conversation respectfully , and create not divide line but common ground ? in that respect , will she urge some of her Government colleague to stop use the issue to create dividing line ? let I reassure the right hon . Gentleman . although we be a couple of year apart in Knowsley , sex education do not change an awful lot . we have two lesson — one where girl and boy be apart , and one where they be together , where we be show a film about childbirth . I think part of the class collapse at that point , and a couple faint , and that be it . time have move on a lot . even education in Knowsley have move on a lot . I be delighted that we now have some good school . indeed , 90 % of our school be now good or outstanding , and that include Knowsley , which I be sure the right hon . Gentleman and I be delighted about . it be important to show leadership on these issue , but it be also important to do so respectfully . that be something I have always seek to do , to answer and respond to a problem , and these concern have be raise by parent and by teacher , request more clarity . I have try to respond to that with the gender questioning guidance , and with the guidance under discussion . it be important that we respectfully discuss these matter . today be a very good day . from what I have read and from what I have hear the Secretary of State say at the Dispatch Box , this guidance be what we have be wait for . I thank the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State and the Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , who be sit to her side , for listen to I and many other colleague . some of those debate have be extremely heated , but I feel so passionately about this , as do my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) and the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) . it be a very good day . I will be study the guidance over the weekend , and I hope we can have further meeting about it over the come week . parent do not want their child be teach by Stonewall and Brook . they do not want they teach an ideology not base in anything . child need teach the fact by all account , but they have to be fact of truth — that be where we need to be . age appropriateness be also extremely important , and I welcome that measure , too . child be child , and they should be keep as child as long as possible . it be a precious time that we all wish we could go back to . we do not want to be put our child into adulthood far too soon . I welcome this guidance . I have three issue that I would like to raise quickly , if that be okay . there be literature within the school system that we need to ensure be remove . there be an awful lot , and one of the big problem we have have be the denial of that literature be in school . it be in these school , it be online , it be in paper , it be all over the place and it need to come out . [ interruption . ] very quickly , we need to enforce this guidance , once it be do , because we have school that still do not want to enforce it . finally , I still believe we need a public inquiry into how we get to this point and how we put 9 , 000 child on a damaging health path . we need to address that . the guidance be very good news ; I welcome it . I thank all member of the House who have discuss this matter respectfully , as well as contribute to and develop our understanding of what be go on in school . on what be there in school — I welcome my hon . friend ' s welcome of this guidance — material will now have to be show to parent , no ifs , no but , and we have make that crystal clear . the material will need to be in line with the guidance . on enforcement , Ofsted will , as part of what it usually do , go round and look at school . it will also look at the guidance and what be be teach against it , so there be an enforcement process , too . it have not be easy to put this guidance together , and I thank all the member of the team and member of the House who have help we in that . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement today , although I fear it be a bit overdue . will she concede that this debacle originate at least in part from the World Health Organisation ' s " international technical guidance on sexuality education " ? it be happen across the world , not just in this country , and that have lead to a deeply damaging situation , where unscientific gender ideology have be push to our child in our school . will she explain to the House how many child she believe have be expose to this abuse ? what step will she take to correct the mistake that have already be make ? what assurance be there for parent that nothing like this can ever happen again and that it be be stop today ? I take responsibility for England , and I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s welcome of the guidance . I think we have show leadership . we issue gender question guidance in December last year . we have update the relationship , sex and health education guidance . within the United Kingdom , there have be different view on this , and I reiterate my offer to Wales and Scotland , if they want to work with we , because the evidence have be emerge on this . I can only show leadership in the area for which I be responsible . I welcome this guidance . it go far than I think , and it be unambiguous . it be not about create dividing line . I be quite late to this debate , until I realise it be an actual issue . I come across evidence of some worrying practice that be go on , and then I become involved in the issue . it be so important that the statutory guidance have tooth . even after this unambiguous guidance , if a school repeatedly breach it , what mechanism be in place to hold that school to account ? on transparency , parent need to know what their child be be teach . if there be example of school be evasive , even after this guidance , what power be in parent ' hand to ensure that they can find out the fact ? the guidance be very clear . it be unusual to have guidance that be largely aim at school , but that have some part for parent , too . we will put more communication for parent on the education hub so that they know what their right be as a result of this guidance . when take these position , we can always think , " what do the counterfactual look like ? " it would be ridiculous to suggest that parent should not see the material that their child be be teach from in school . on enforcement , as I have mention , the guidance will become part of the usual school enforcement . Ofsted will look at this guidance and at what be happen in school , and use that as part of its inspection . seven year ago , before I come to this House , I spend 20 year teaching , some of the time in the north - west of England and some of it in Wales . I know , as a modern foreign language teacher , that relationship and sex education be something that I have to deliver . the majority of teacher who have to deliver RSE be not train , and that still concern I . I see at first hand how lobby group have easily be able to permeate this area in England and Wales . while the guidance be welcome , it be very late . I appreciate the comment that the Secretary of State have make about the devolved nation . that show why it be important that we take politic out of this debate . we must present fact , and we must work together . will she share the expert panel ' s finding with the new Education Minister in Wales and have a grow - up conversation ? let we take the politic out of this , because these be people ' s life . absolutely . I hope the hon . Lady will have see that that be just not my style . I try to see problem and fix they in a reasonable and respectful way . quality material be important . the hon . Lady may have have that training , but not every teacher will have . the quality of material be vital , and it be clear , as we have hear from other , that there have be some poor - quality material and some material that be spout nonsense , let we be honest . that be why we will be produce our own material , which the Oak National Academy will produce in the autumn . I would very much welcome a meeting with the Education Minister in Wales , who as the hon . Lady say be new and may not yet have look at this matter in detail . to remove reference to " man " and " woman " in the curriculum sound ridiculous , and recommend teaching that sex be not just about male or female sound ridiculous . some of those material may have make their way into the curriculum , and I would welcome the opportunity to work with any of the devolved nation to get those material out of our school . that the statement have be so necessary today be a measure of the fact that some member of the teaching profession have take leave of their sense . in that light , will the Secretary of State consider to what extent the remedy be guidance or statutory requirement ? it be statutory guidance . it will also be transparent , as the material will now be available to parent . it be not only statutory guidance , but this area will be under the scrutiny of every parent in the school . it be clear that we need to support our teacher and headteacher to ensure that they get this right . the vast majority will be get it right , but it be an area that not everybody be specifically train to teach , so it be important that we provide the material and the guidance and make sure that ofste enforce it . in 2023 , more than 400 young people be diagnose with a sexually transmit infection every day . early this year , the Women and Equalities Committee find " compelling evidence that Relationships and Sex Education … in school be inadequate , include in relation to contraception and … sti " . the Children ' s Commissioner have similarly attribute that shocking increase to the fact that we be not teach our kid what they need to hear . will the Secretary of State explain to the House how she think the new guidance , which seem to suggest that STIs will not be teach about before year 9 — age 13 or 14 — will address those shocking rate ? the new guidance will be supplement with material that will be available from Oak National Academy , which we will ensure address any of the concern raise . I look forward to work with the Children ' s Commissioner and other to make sure of that . I welcome the focus on tackle misogyny online and the influencer who peddle it , but I worry that year 5 will be a little too late to stop that influence take hold . I want to ask the Secretary of State about provide positive male role model for young boy , which be a really important part of this . will she address that in the consultation ? yes . indeed , many member of this House be positive male role model — there be many positive male role model — and we want to ensure that we celebrate and support positive male role model , not misogynistic online influencer . we need to teach child about the danger of those people and ensure that their influence be counter by people who be real role model for child . I commend the Secretary of State for her statement and the wisdom she have show . the Democratic Unionist party welcome the guidance issue to let kid be kid and to prevent sexualise content from be teach to under - nine . indeed , the Government ' s rationale be similar to that which I give in the Chamber when I ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland not to change the RSE regime for Northern Ireland . will the Secretary of State speak to her Cabinet colleague to ensure that the innocence of our child be protect in all region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and that parent who be genuinely seek to safeguard their child be afford respect in term of the classroom syllabus and have their right to reasonably hold view protect ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment . of course , what make this subject difficult be the need to tread that fine line carefully — let kid be kid while make sure that they be equip in a world that be increasingly more complex than the world that we grow up in . we have seek very much to ensure that we get that balance right . I thank the Secretary of State and Opposition Front Benchers for their attendance . Backbench Business Women ' s State Pension age : Ombudsman Report [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Work and Pensions Committee on 7 May 2024 , on PHSO report on woman ' s state pension age , HC 740 . ] I beg to move , that this House note the finding of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman report on Women ' s State Pension age ; and call on the Government to deliver prompt compensation to woman bear in the 1950 who have their State Pension age raise . I be delighted to have secure today ' s debate on this very important issue . the motion urge the UK Government to deliver prompt compensation to woman bear in the 1950 who have their state pension age raise , follow the report from the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman on the Department of Work and Pensions ' communication of change to the state pension age for woman . I extend my thank to the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate . I lament the fact that it will not be possible to press the motion to a vote , as teller from both side of the argument would be require for such a vote to be hold . although I be disappointed that there will be no vote , there be nothing at all to prevent the Government from bring forward such a vote in Government time . indeed , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman have invite the House to express a view by lay its report before Parliament , so that clearly need to happen . will the hon . Lady address the prejudice touch on at the Work and Pensions Committee last week , namely that there have be an element of contributory negligence , in that the change be not a state secret — it be advertise and cover in the newspaper — and that some woman who be approach retirement or early retirement do not take proper notice ? will she knock that on the head ? if the right hon . Gentleman read the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report , he will see that it make it very clear that action be not take to inform woman in the appropriate way that one would expect and , indeed , that the DWP be negligent in that regard . my hon . friend have start off powerfully , as I know she would , know what a huge advocate she be for the WASPI woman — woman against state pension inequality . the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) make a helpful contribution . do my hon . friend agree that it be ludicrous for anyone to suggest that people — in this case , those woman — should have find out about a change to their pension arrangement by happen to read advertisement in the correct newspaper on the correct day ? surely none of we should be plan our life in that way . my hon . friend make an excellent point . we know , do we not , that many impact woman find out at the last possible moment that their retirement age have be raise because they have not be give due notice to make plan in the way we would all expect ? the DWP have be find to be negligent . I will say more about that in a moment . the issue before we go to the heart of our sense of justice and fairness and the social contract that the Government of the day have with their citizen . a whole generation of woman have their pension age raise without the notice that they be entitle to expect , rob they not just of ten of thousand of pound in pension payment but of their retirement plan , of financial peace of mind and of the contract they believe that they have with the society in which they work hard , pay their due and fulfil their responsibility . they think that they could enjoy some sort of retirement in later life — after all , they have earn it , have they not ? the social contract be an agreement that we all think we should be able to rely on , but when the Government tear at the edge of that contract or rip it through as though it never exist , what retirement can any of we — or should any of we — count on ? I have meet a range of woman in the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign over a number of year . of particular note be the Ayrshire WASPI group and the Cunninghame WASPI group , who represent WASPI woman in my constituency of North Ayrshire and Arran and , indeed , WASPI woman across Ayrshire . all woman in the WASPI movement have distinguish themselves by their effective campaigning against the gross injustice that have be perpetrate against they , in the face of extreme provocation by a Government who have be tone deaf to their plea for justice . I have be inspire by those woman ' s dignity , their resilience in the face of great financial hardship and their persistence , and by the compelling justice of their case . I know many of the woman involve ; I know their story . I note the hugely helpful insight provide by writer Dee Wild Kearney , the author of " not go away ! " , who join we in the Gallery . Dee ' s book , which be available in all good bookshop , outline the struggle of some of the woman involve in the campaign . I pay tribute to her work to disseminate this injustice to an even wide audience . I welcome all the WASPI woman in the Public Gallery , some of whom have travel a considerable distance to be here today . they be entitle to have their voice hear and their case answer . when a whole generation of woman find themselves victim to injustice on such a grand and heartbreaking scale , those mp who champion their cause feel the weight of their frustration , the weight of their hardship and their profound sense of have be screw over . in turn , as mp we feel our own frustration when face with an intransigent government who refuse to listen and appear wilfully blind to the fact . one of my constituent , who I have work with since 2017 , be one of the ombudsman ' s six test case . in fact , I be unable to make a speech today because I be meet the ombudsman on behalf of my constituent at 2 pm . my hon . friend be frustrate with the Government ' s lack of action so far , but be she as disappoint and angry as I be about the Labour party ' s refusal to back the WASPI woman , despite promise ten of billion in compensation at the last election ? order . before the hon . Lady proceed , I note that 21 member wish to participate in the debate . I understand that this be an important subject and I have no desire whatsoever to curtail either the debate or the right of hon . member to intervene — I appreciate only too well the urgency of get one ' s point on the record — but if those on the Front Bench , or indeed any other hon . member , give way too many time , not all will be call to speak . it be important that every hon . member who wish to speak can do so , and I therefore hope that we can resist the temptation to intervene whenever not necessary . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I take on board your comment . none of the UK Government ' s intransigence have distract from the dignity with which with the campaigner have conduct themselves over the long year that this swindle — and it be a swindle — have be carry out . my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) raise a good point about our disappointment — some would say disgust — at the Labour party ' s current position , but I will respond to his concern in due course . after year of marching , lobbying , letter and email writing , attend surgery and tireless campaigning , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman have finally report . the report vindicate the WASPI woman and highlight the DWP ' s failure to communicate , which " negatively affect complainant ' sense of personal autonomy and control over their finance . " the report find : " the DWP do not adequately investigate and respond to complaint " . in a damn condemnation , it highlight that , despite all of that , the DWP " will not take step to put thing right " and that its refusal to do so be unacceptable . it conclude : " Parliament need now to act swiftly , and make sure a compensation scheme be establish . we think this will provide woman with the quick route to remedy . " this be surely one of the grave injustice of our time , alongside the contaminated blood scandal and the Horizon scandal . it be another example of citizen have thing do to they , which by every measure be wrong and unjust . I commend my hon . friend for secure today ' s debate . on behalf of the Midlothian WASPI woman , I thank she for all her work , and all member who have contribute to make this debate happen . do she agree that the fact that these injustice happen over and over again show how out of touch the Government in this place have become ? one would be forgive for thinking of a real disconnect between those we seek to serve and those who serve . when that disconnect repeatedly happen , and this systematic failure perpetrate such injustice , it be a very bad day for democracy . the difference between this case and the contaminate blood and Horizon scandal — both be awful injustice — be that the Government at least appear to wish to take action on those scandal , albeit very slowly . they appear to wish to make move to address those injustice . in this case , of change the state pension age with little or no notice , with the devastating consequence that it have bring , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman have be move to say : " it be extremely rare that an organisation we investigate do not accept and act on our recommendation . " it add that it have " no legal power " to enforce compliance . a failure to comply with the ombudsman ' s recommendation represent a constitutional gap in protect the right of citizen who have be fail by a public body , and in ensure access to justice . by lay this report , the PHSO have ask Parliament to intervene , to agree a mechanism for remedy and to hold the Government to account for its delivery . here we be . we be hold the Government to account , while they and the incoming Labour Government enjoy a cosy " do nothing " consensus , sacrifice WASPI woman on the bonfire of austerity that they have build together in a deliberate and conscious way . for the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman to issue such a statement be unprecedented , but it illustrate how shocking it be that this government , support by the loyal opposition — loyal in way we could only imagine — appear to be try to ignore , obfuscate and gaslight their way out of this crisis , and it be a crisis for the woman impact . neither Labour nor the Tories in government have even accept the principle of financial redress for WASPI woman . how do I know that ? because when the Secretary of State make a statement shortly after the long - await publication of this report , he make no mention of redress or compensation , but instead list how great it currently be to be a pensioner in the United Kingdom because of the sheer munificence of the UK Government . the shadow Secretary of State ' s response to that statement studiously avoid mention compensation as well , instead deliver a patronising yet supine eulogy on treat pensioner with dignity . empty word do not pay bill , and no one be fool by that nonsense . perhaps we should not be too surprised , since Labour have a track record of let woman down , particularly working - class woman . after all , the Labour administration in Glasgow City Council spend £ 2 . 5 million of taxpayer ' money fight equal pay claim by female council worker over 10 year . that show beyond any reasonable doubt just how far Labour be prepared to go to fight equal pay — an incredible waste of public money . it take an SNP administration in Glasgow council to ensure that legal action be stop and the pay claim be settle . that be a priority of the incoming SNP administration . we know that Labour have a track record of deny justice to woman , so we can not expect much from that quarter , and anybody who do will be disappoint . however , the WASPI woman I have speak to feel particularly betray by Labour mp and msp , who have spend the last umpteen year pose for photograph , smile broadly alongside WASPI campaigner and pledge what turn out to be empty word of support , only to abandon they at the very moment they be vindicate by the ombudsman . the same debate be hold last week in the Scottish Parliament . incredibly , labour msp — who be not just member of the Scottish Parliament but member of the scottish branch office — abstain , as order by their high command boss in London , on a motion that call for high compensation to properly reflect the financial harm suffer by WASPI woman . that motion sound pretty reasonable to I — it would to anybody . the sum mention in the ombudsman ' s report be simply too low . I think most people would agree with that . they must be consider in the context that the UK Government have save £ 181 . 4 billion purely by raise the state pension age of these woman . so it be time to get real . the UK Government could perhaps examine the private Member ' s Bill bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) and go from there . instead , all we have be silence from both the UK Government and the Labour Opposition . the Leader of the Opposition have himself benefit from a special law pass in Parliament : the Pensions Increase ( Pension Scheme for Keir Starmer QC ) Regulations 2013 . it relate to when he be the Director of Public Prosecutions in England , and his personal pension be protect . it be quite literally one law for he and another law for everybody else , especially if you be a WASPI woman and even more so if you be a working - class woman . it do not escape anyone ' s notice that the Leader of the Opposition be now very silent on the injustice suffer by WASPI woman and support less generous pension for everyone else . what a brass neck . what shameful hypocrisy . maybe he be just so cocksure of a thumping Labour majority at the next election that he think WASPI woman be expendable . who know ? meanwhile , around 280 , 000 WASPI woman who have be impact have die since the start of the WASPI campaign . around 6 , 000 have die since the publication of the ombudsman report . why be there no urgency to address this injustice ? no wonder WASPI woman ' s impatience and sense of injustice be fast turn into outright fury . who could blame they ? because of the evasion and mis - direction use in previous debate , I wish to say to the Minister that this be not a debate about return the retirement age back to 60 ; this be not a debate about the triple lock ; and this be not a debate about anything except the injustice suffer by woman bear in the 1950 who have be vindicate by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . I think all of we in this Chamber have speak to our WASPI woman . I have Barbara and Lynn from Hartlepool here today . they inform I early that every 13 minute a 1950s woman die . that 280 , 000 be grow as we speak . I thank the hon . Lady for that point . all she do be emphasise how desperately urgent this matter be . every 13 minute a WASPI woman die , so how many will die while we be have this debate ? another half dozen ? who know ? it may be more than that . there be no more hiding place . it be time for swift compensation to be deliver to these woman who have already endure far too much hardship and distress . the redress that they be accord must reflect that suffering and there must be no barrier to access it for any of the woman affect . no one can any long deny the rightness of their compelling case . it be time to pay up . it be time to deliver . as the Minister and the Labour leadership must surely know by now , these woman be not go away . it be my hope that when the Minister get to his foot he will have something meaningful to say to the House today , and to all the WASPI woman who have already wait too long for justice . perhaps he can at least set out some kind of timeframe for when the Government will bring forward redress proposal for those impact . it be a travesty to drag this injustice out one moment long . I hope the Minister agree and do the right thing by this generation of woman , or will these woman continue to suffer while his Government pontificate ? I hope not , but I say today to the Minister , and I say today to the WASPI woman who be listen both at home and in the Public Gallery that the SNP unequivocally stand with you . we will not abandon you , as other have do . it be a privilege to speak in the debate . when my constituent who have make a complaint come to see I , we quite often get to a stage at which I recommend the ombudsman to they . I regularly say to they , " have faith : ombudsman quite often find in favour of the complainant . " ombudsman be there for a purpose . we can not merely support the institution of the ombudsman when it make a convenient finding for the Government of the day . we have to accept its decision if we be to have an ombudsman . we all know that trust in politic , politician and mps be at something of a low point at the moment , no matter what party we be in . I think that be very unfair , because most people in this House , of all party , be decent people do their good for their constituent and work very hard , so that reduction in trust really worry I . the response of the Government and Parliament to the ombudsman ' s report be really important , because it touch on the issue of trust in our institution , which have be through a very difficult time . I warmly welcome the thrust of my hon . friend ' s argument . for the benefit of the record , I draw his attention and that of the House to paragraph 459 of the report , which state : " for most sample complainant we consider the primary injustice be that they be deny opportunity to make informed decision about some thing , and to do some thing differently , because of maladministration in DWP ' s communication about State Pension age . that be a material injustice . " I be grateful to my right hon . friend . what he say be accurate . he quote from the report ; it be in July 2021 that the ombudsman find maladministration . in the report on 21 March , it say that that have lead to an injustice . like my right hon . friend , I will quote briefly from the ombudsman . it say of the Department for Work and Pensions that " in 2005 it fail to take adequate account of the need for targeted and individually tailor information . in 2006 , DWP propose write directly to woman individually to let they know their State Pension age have change , but it then fail to act promptly . we find that if DWP have make a reasonable decision about next step in 2005 , and then act promptly , it would have begin write to affected woman by December 2006 . " my right hon . friend and other Members will have see that in the back of the report , there be a table show what should have happen when . I , too , have constituent who write to I to say that they be very close to the age of 60 at the time . some have work all their work life , since the age of 15 or so . they have make all their plan on the basis that they could get their pension at 60 , and they literally find out about the change from colleague in the workplace , sometimes very shortly before they think they be due to retire . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will , briefly , but it will probably be the last intervention , as I take heed of what Mr Deputy Speaker say . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . the point he make ring true for I . the very first constituent who come to I with a problem when I be elect seven year ago be a WASPI woman . she be less than two year away from retirement when she learn by accident of the change . seven year on , she be no well off ; in a lot of way , she be much bad off . a lot of those who be not WASPI woman now wonder if they know the truth about when they will get their pension . do he agree that although this issue be fundamentally about the WASPI woman , it be about trust , and woman have trust in this institution ? I agree . the issue of trust be really important , one that this House should not take lightly . in my South West Bedfordshire constituency , it be estimate that there be 6 , 000 woman in this situation . the cost of their compensation , at level 4 , as recommend by the ombudsman , would be £ 6 million at the low level , and at the upper level £ 17 . 7 million . if we extrapolate from that to the UK , I think the sum be £ 3 . 9 billion at the low end and £ 11 . 5 billion at the upper end . we must be honest ; I believe in honesty in politic . these be large sum — very large , when we add the amount that we will have to pay the postmaster and postmistress , for whom we be also all campaign , and the sum for the victim of the infected blood scandal , for whom most of we be also campaign ; and then there be other campaign , such as the one relate to Equitable Life . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will because it be the hon . Lady , but this must be the last intervention . the hon . Gentleman talk about the way in which the bill for all these compensation scheme be mount . do that not merely underline the importance of competent government ? of course it be good if government get these thing right , but government be difficult , and government of all party will make mistake because they be human . however , I be make a different point on honesty about the overall Government finance . when I be teach economic , a long time ago , I be make aware of the notion of opportunity cost . we can only spend the same pound once , and if we be to spend billion on one thing , we must be honest about the other thing on which we can not spend money — thing that the WASPI woman may very much want — or the service we will have to cut , or the taxis we will have to raise . I have try to find out from the Library how the Treasury reserve work , and how we can account nationally for a contingency fund to deal with issue such as this . we just need a bit of honesty here , as a Parliament . if we be to do the right thing by the WASPI woman — as I believe we should ; I want we to , and we should do the same for those other group — we need to consider a fund in the Treasury reserve that be dedicate to contingency , although it might not be large enough to pay out on every cause in the way we would like ; perhaps the nation would not be able to afford that . while I absolutely back the justice of the cause of the WASPI woman , and while I think we should honour what the ombudsman say , or at least move towards do that , we need to be honest about the nation ' s finance and the other call on the Exchequer . let I finish where I begin — I will be brief , heed Mr Deputy Speaker ' s injunction . this come back to the question of trust . we agree with the umpire not just when we be in favour of the umpire ' s decision . either we have an ombudsman or we do not , and while the ombudsman ' s finding may be uncomfortable or inconvenient , it be neverthe - less the finding , and we should do the right thing . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for give we the opportunity for this debate , and I thank the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) for open it . I should make it clear at the outset that I be the Minister for Pensions between December 1998 and July 1999 , and again between May 2005 and May 2006 , which be part of the period cover by the ombudsman ' s report . I draw the House ' s attention to the evidence that my Committee , the Work and Pensions Committee , take on 7 May on the ombudsman ' s report — we be grateful to all who give evidence to we that morning — and to the letter that I send to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions yesterday on behalf of the Committee , set out our suggestion for a way forward . those document have be tag for this debate . the ombudsman open an investigation of all this in 2018 , six year ago . after receive more than 600 case , it stop accept new one and select six sample case to investigate , one or two of which have be refer to today . the investigation be split into stage . the first report , publish in July 2021 , find maladministration in the way in which the DWP have communicate the change to affected woman . a further report , publish in March this year , conclude that this have mean that " some woman have lose opportunity to make informed decision about their finance " , which have " diminish their sense of personal autonomy and financial control " and " cause unnecessary stress and anxiety " and " unnecessary confusion " . let I say at the outset that the right hon . Gentleman be a distinguished Minister , well respect across the House in his various Government job . be communication not the nub of this ? of course the decision itself be a matter for a debate on pension entitlement , but there be the entirely separate issue of how the decision be communicate , and the injustice lie in that failure to communicate . when we change people ' s circumstance with notice and they have time to deal with it , cope with it , make alternative arrangement , that be one thing ; but when we do not give they adequate notice because of their age , that be quite another . Disraeli , I think , say " justice be truth in action " , and that be the truth of the matter . the right hon . Gentleman have echo a number of the point that the ombudsman have draw to our attention , but I think we should be clear about the fact that a great many people do know about this change . the passage of the legislation be widely report at the time , nearly 30 year ago , and I vividly recall that in the first of my two stint as Pensions Minister , I spend a fair chunk of most day sign reply to mps who have write on behalf of constituent who be unhappy about the impending change , or be call on the then fairly new Government to reverse it . the reply that I sign be robust , and make it clear that the decision would not be reverse . the decision be quite well know , and — the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) make a useful point in this regard — I think that citizen have a responsibility to keep themselves inform , by listen to the radio or read the paper , of change in the law that will affect they . however , the ombudsman have establish and make clear in the report that the Department find out , at around the second time I be Pensions Minister , that only 40 % of woman have know about the forthcoming pension age change . forty per cent . be a large number , but 60 % — the proportion who do not know about it — be even large . the Department find that out as a result of research do in 2003 - 04 , but do nothing about it until 2009 . that be the maladministration that the ombudsman have identify . we do not know why nothing be do — well , I certainly do not — because the ombudsman have not tell we , but it can not be credibly argue that this be not maladministration . when a Department discover information and then do nothing , there be clearly a problem . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for describe his experience in connection with this matter . we have a clear finding of maladministration , but government acceptance of that do not automatically follow , so we be have a debate today about whether we accept the finding when , give the timescale , we ought surely to be think more about how we deal with issue relate to who be eligible and who be not . I agree , and I will come to that point when I talk about the Select Committee ' s discussion last week . it be worth add that the problem cause by that maladministration be exacerbate by the decision in 2011 to increase the state pension age not to 65 , as provide by legislation in 1995 , but to 66 , with very little notice give of that change . the ombudsman say that have it report directly to the DWP , it would have recommend that the Department apologise for the maladministration and take step to put thing right . as we all now know , the ombudsman do not report directly to the Department because of concern that no remedy would be forthcoming . the interim ombudsman , Rebecca Hilsenrath , tell the Committee last week that her office have be " give repeatedly to understand that the Department do not accept our finding . " perhaps , when he wind up the debate , the Minister can tell we whether the Department now recognise that there be maladministration in this case . in lay its report before Parliament in March , the ombudsman ask we in the House to " identify an appropriate mechanism " for provide a remedy . it set out its thinking , namely that the DWP should first acknowledge the maladministration and apologise ; secondly , pay financial compensation to the six sample complainant at level 4 of the severity of injustice scale ; and , thirdly , identify a remedy for other who have suffer injustice because of the maladministration . as we have hear , the ombudsman estimate that this would involve a sum of between £ 3 . 5 billion and £ 10 . 5 billion . we need to find a resolution to this issue , and to find it quite quickly , because it have drag on for a very long time . Angela Madden , the chair of the WASPI campaign , tell the Work and Pensions Committee last week that a woman from the affected cohort die every 13 minute , which be a powerful point to make . I want to ask the right hon . member about resolution . give the maladministration and the point make by the ombudsman , the conclusion need to happen through political choice . that political choice be between either the Government sit there or a government who might replace they at some point this year . surely the WASPI woman in my constituency of West Dunbartonshire , and those in everyone ' s constituency , need political agreement — not obfuscation or an abdication responsibility , but a clear political choice . I agree . the Government have say that they will respond without " undue delay " , and that they be consider the report in detail . can the Minister tell the House this afternoon whether the Government will bring forward proposal for remedy , as the Work and Pensions Committee believe that they should , before the summer recess ? we should set a clear timetable . we need a scheme that be easy to administer . the ombudsman say that , in principle , redress should reflect the impact on each individual , but it recognise that the need to avoid delay , and the large number involve , " may indicate the need for a more standardised approach " . Jane Cowley , the WASPI campaign manager , tell the Work and Pensions Committee that give the need for action " within week rather than year " , the scheme should be base on three principle : speed , simplicity and sensitivity . the evidence that have be gather point to a rule - base approach to work out the compensation that should be pay . I have read the evidence give to the right hon . member ' s Committee , which be take in April this year . if the Government agree that they have to accept responsibility for this issue and to go forward with it , how quickly could we start to see the highly justified compensation be pay to these woman ? I would hope quite quickly , and I will explain why . the payment involve would be adjust within a range , base on the ombudsman ' s severity of injustice scale . it would depend on two variable : first , the extent of the change to the individual ' s state pension age — how much it increase by — and , secondly , the notice that the individual receive . the less notice someone have of the change , and the big the change to their state pension age , the high the payment they would receive . an arrangement like that would not be perfect , but it would be quite quick and relatively inexpensive to administer compare with a more bespoke system , because it would involve apply know datum to a formula to work out the amount that be due . I ask the Minister whether he accept that , in principle , a rule - base system would be the good way forward . beyond that , it be suggest to the Work and Pensions Committee that there should be some flexibility for individual to make the case , after the standard payment have be calculate , that they experience direct financial loss as a result of the maladministration , and that they should therefore be entitle to a high level of compensation . flexibility would be need , because although the ombudsman do not see direct financial loss in the six sample complaint that it look at , it do not exclude the possibility that there could be in other case . for example , Angela Madden , the chair of the WASPI campaign , suggest to we that somebody whose divorce settlement be less than it would have be because it be base on the expectation that she would receive her state pension at the age of 60 , might well be entitle to a large amount because of that particular development . the right hon . Gentleman make a very important point . look at the experience of other compensation scheme — the one that come to my mind be the icelandic trawlerman compensation scheme — it be clear that the long we leave these thing , and the long the passage of time , the more difficult it get to resolve they . do that not underline the need for speed here ? I agree that we need to get on and resolve this issue after a very long period . the ombudsman suggest a remedy base on level 4 of its severity of injustice scale , give the finding that individual have experience indirect financial loss . we on the Work and Pensions Committee do not seek to question that view , and I do not intend to do so this afternoon . regardless of the level of remedy or the mean by which remedy be deliver , it will need parliamentary time , financial resource , and the datum and technical system that be available only to the Department for Work and Pensions . even if a Back Bencher bring forward a private Member ' s Bill , as the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) have do , it can not become law without Government support . it will need a money resolution that only the Government can bring forward , so it be not realistic to say that Parliament can resolve this issue ; it must have the Government ' s full - hearted involvement . there will be different view on the finding of the ombudsman ' s report . however , as the interim ombudsman tell the Work and Pensions Committee last week , she be appoint by Parliament to carry out these investigation and be accountable to it through the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . I will read out what Karl Banister from the ombudsman ' s staff tell the Work and Pensions committee last week . he say : " we want everyone to comply with our recommendation , but it be implicit in the scheme that because we don ' t have enforcement power , it may be , sometimes , that an organisation think it doesn ' t want to . then the partnership be that Parliament , as our supervisor , will do something about that . " that go to the point make by the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) early . Mr Banister continue : " I think what would damage the standing of the ombudsman be if Parliament decline to do that . " it be important for all of we that we see this through . we have ask the ombudsman to undertake this role , and it have do the job that we ask it to do . we now need to play our part in ensure that this matter be resolve . time be not on our side , and the Government have be aware of this issue for a while . the right hon . Member be give an incredibly well - inform speech on this matter . I have meet Angela Madden and various WASPI woman in Dudley , and it be clearly a highly complicated and difficult issue to resolve , especially if it be necessary for the Government to look at appropriate and proportionate remedy , have first identify the woman who have come to harm . do the right hon . Member agree that whatever solution be come to , it be necessary to accelerate the work on this incredibly complicated issue at pace ? while the clock do not stop for anybody , it certainly seem to accelerate for those of we of a great age . I agree that we need to get a move on . that be why the Government should commit to bring forward some proposal before the summer recess , so that we all know where we be head . the Government have all the information they need . it be a difficult and costly matter , but I hope they will be able to bring forward proposal in time for the House ' s summer recess . it be a great honour to follow the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , who have encyclopaedic knowledge of this subject . I be grateful to he for his speech . it be no surprise that I want to speak in today ' s debate , as I represent the old cohort of constituent in the entire country . in North Norfolk , there be somewhere in the region of 5 , 000 WASPI woman who have be impact by this issue , and not a week go by without my receive correspondence from woman who have be affect terribly . I will come to the report ' s finding in a moment , but I will first reflect on the real impact of this scandal and on what have happen to the woman catch up in it . the problem with this place be that we often forget about the real people and the real suffering . we sometimes get very preoccupied with the political and financial problem in front of we and question why they happen in the first place , but that be somewhat secondary , because we must not forget about all the woman who have really be affect . across the country , thousand of woman in our constituency be affect . the hon . Gentleman be make an important point about find a resolution . it have be over 1 , 000 day since the ombudsman find the Government guilty of maladministration . we have hear the shocking figure that a WASPI woman die every 13 minute , which mean that over 100 , 000 affected woman have pass away since the ombudsman ' s find . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will agree that we need to work together to ensure that the Government get a move on in bring forward compensation proposal before the summer recess . because people be pass away and time be of the essence . I totally agree with the hon . Gentleman . it be now about speed , and I will come to that point later in my speech . waspi woman have already suffer for year and year and , now this report have be publish , we should learn from the other injustice we have see , such as the Post Office scandal , that speed be of the essence . we need to come up with a remedy as quickly as possible . my hon . friend be make a very powerful speech about the impact on individual , as well as the number . do he agree that this be about fairness , take into account the individual fact of each case ? Leigh lady Maggie Briley retire four year before she turn 60 to look after her parent with dementia . not get her pension , as she fully expect , at 60 mean that she have to sell her home and take up a low - pay job to make end meet , and of course she could not look after her parent , who suffer as well . do my hon . friend agree that this be about not just fast compensation but fair compensation , base on the individual circumstance of each case ? that be not necessarily just for Maggie , but for the 5 , 220 WASPI woman in my constituency . my hon . friend be absolutely right . this be about individual , and every single individual who have be impact have a different life story to tell . it be very difficult for the Government to come up with a redress scheme that cover every eventuality because , as my hon . Friend say , individual circumstance affect everyone who have be impact . all right , some lady have cope . they might have have saving , earning or private pension , and in some case they be lucky enough to have family who be able to help , but an awful lot of woman have absolutely none of that . huge number have suffer through absolutely no fault of their own . as have be repeat many time , many WASPI woman have die in recent year . we can not imagine just how difficult it must have be for some of these woman , who have have so little , to cope through the time delay they have suffer . it be not their fault . back home in North Norfolk , like my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , I hear of dreadful case of woman who give up work to care for a sick or die husband . they be totally reliant on the pension they think be go to come , but it do not , and they be perhaps not able to go back to work or find employment . it be not easy . in those case , the injustice have have a profound impact on people ' s life , livelihood , mental wellbeing and , in many case , financial standing , which have be so damaging for so many woman . I be a new MP — not so new any more , I guess — and we see so many injustice . it be a privilege to try to fix they , whether it be infect blood , the loan charge , Hillsborough or the Post Office , which be particularly pertinent to I . we in this place should learn how we can try to sort out some of these injustice . both Ministers be excellent , decent , empathetic people . I have previously speak to they about this issue , and I know they care deeply about it . as have already be say , we should be honest about today ' s debate . the public purse do not have billion of pound of spare capacity at the moment , and the people of this country who be watch be intelligent . they can see that the financial scarring of the pandemic weigh very heavily on we . in this debate , we should be practical with our suggestion , and the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) propose a set of in - depth , practical step . many of the WASPI Campaign ' s briefing and request be entirely sensible , and it have a real right to be hear . there be no long any debate about the ombudsman ' s report , as far as I be concerned . it clearly find that there be maladministration between 2005 and 2007 and , as we have hear time and again , that delay lead to this problem . we need to get over that point . it have happen . there be a problem , and there be no point deny it . I hear the odd cursory comment from constituent who say , " well , they should have know about it . it be advertise enough . " that be not fair . the ombudsman ' s report make that very clear . these woman be fail , in many case , by the state . the redress , the compensation mechanism , must be clear and fair . as we hear , there must be speed , sensitivity and simplicity . the WASPI campaign ' s brief be very sensible in say that the Government should come forward with a two - pronged approach that deliver a high level of compensation to those with the short notice of the long delay to receive their state pension . why be that fair ? because those be the woman who be impact the most . if they be impact the most , they be the one who have suffer the most , and they deserve that redress . but that be not enough not to think about everybody else . it be sensible to put together some eligibility criterion that enable all the other impact cohort to be able to make a claim for compensation . it be right that we come forward with that as quickly as possible . one thing I have learn in this place , not to be too facetious , be that thing do not happen very quickly , but this be something that should be happen quickly . when the public mood move , as we see with the Post Office scandal , we know that we can move quickly . we have the report , and the WASPI woman have already suffer for an inordinate amount of time . I urge the Government to come up with that remedy , and to get on with it quickly . I , too , thank the Backbench Business Committee for enable the debate to take place . I suppose that I should congratulate the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) on her opening speech , and I do , but I caution she that use it to promote division in the House of Commons be not the way to advance the issue . if she be serious about it , and if she have listen to all the speech that have be make so far , she will know that there be consensus in the House . our effort need to be put into find a way to move that forward . I will be brief . the case for right this injustice be convincing . although the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s inquiry note that , " timely and accurate information be available about change to the number of qualifying year need for a full State Pension as a result of the 2014 Pensions Act " , it do find , " maladministration in DWP ' s communication about the 1995 Pensions Act " . in addition , the report find that , " maladministration in DWP ' s complaint handling cause complainant unnecessary stress and anxiety and mean an opportunity to lessen their distress be lose . for some complainant , it also cause unnecessary worry and confusion . " that be pretty clear about the extent of the maladministration . in the context of this debate , the ombudsman state : " give the scale of the impact of DWP ' s maladministration , and the urgent need for a remedy , we be take the rare but necessary step of ask Parliament to intervene . " I stress the use of the word " urgent " , which I will return to and on which several hon . member have already comment . I will first say a few word about the woman who have be affect by this wholly unfair and unacceptable matter . we need to remind ourselves that the woman bear in the 1950 do everything require of they to ensure that reliable arrangement be in place when they reach pensionable age . that be the crux of the matter . I strongly believe that we as member of this House have a responsibility to accept our duty to remedy the situation . to return to the ombudsman ' s emphasis on the word " urgent " , my fear be that we will not deal with the situation urgently . let I be clear : I do not believe that allow the clock to run down to the forthcoming general election be an acceptable option . my fear be confirm yesterday at Prime Minister ' s question when , in response to my hon . friend the Member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , the Prime Minister say : " follow the ombudsman ' s multi - year investigation , it be imperative that we take the time to review the finding thoroughly . " — [ Official Report , 15 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 255 . ] the problem with that be the fact be already well know , and it certainly do not reflect the ombudsman ' s conclusion about the urgency of the issue . I will make a suggestion that I urge both Front - Bench spokespeople to adopt . I believe that we could do the right thing in this Parliament if the Government and Opposition party hold talk , convene and chair by Mr Speaker , with a view to put a Bill before the House as speedily as possible . I be mindful and supportive of the suggestion of my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) that we could do something seriously before the summer recess . as other hon . member mention , every generation experience injustice . in my time in the House , they have include the thalidomide victim , Hillsborough , primodo , contaminate blood and , most recently , the Horizon scandal . for I , they be all debt of honour that we have a duty to redeem . I suspect that a majority of member of the House would agree , so please let we have the opportunity to do so . rise — order . after the next speaker , I will impose a time limit of 10 minute , which , as they say , be not a target but a maximum . if hon . member adhere to it , we will have time for the Front - Bench spokespeople and we will have the ability to accommodate every hon . member who seek to speak . I call Peter Aldous . I congratulate the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) on secure the debate and the Backbench Business Committee on grant it . the purpose of the debate be to consider the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report of 21 March and how good to implement its recommendation . in brief , the following issue arise from the report . first , the PHSO find that in 2005 , the Department for Work and Pensions , " fail to take adequate account of the need for targeted and individually tailor information " to be share with woman affect by the change to the state pension age . that amount to maladministration and result in the six complainant whose case be consider not be able to do thing differently or make informed , mitigate decision . the PHSO conclude that they should be compensate for that . secondly , the PHSO take the highly unusual step of lay its report before Parliament , due to its concern that the DWP would fail to provide a remedy . although the PHSO have put forward a suggestion as to what the compensation should be , it have ask Parliament to intervene to agree a mechanism for remedy and to hold the Government to account . thirdly , the PHSO point out that it be " extremely rare " for an organisation that it investigate not to accept and act on its recommendation . it make the observation that a failure to comply with its recommendation represent a constitutional gap in protect the right of citizen who have be fail by a public body and in ensure access to justice . my interest in the injustice arise from the fact that , for approximately eight year , as regular as clockwork , constituent have be highlight to I the enormous challenge and hardship that they have face and endure . for the past four year , I have have the privilege of co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on state pension inequality for woman with , first , the hon . member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) and , more recently , the hon . member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) . I take the opportunity to thank our predecessor , the hon . member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) and my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) . it be important to thank the PHSO for its work and the duty that it have carry out . it have receive criticism for the time that it have take and for the narrow remit of consider six case that some be concerned do not fully reflect the injustice that 1950 - bear woman as a whole have have to endure . however , it would have be very easy for the PHSO to have decide that this be not a case for it to investigate . instead , it have not shy away from the past . the investigation have take a long time because it be complicated and there be a need to get it right . the PHSO have provide we with a snapshot . it be up to we — Parliament , Government and the DWP — to extrapolate and put right a problem that may well extend much more widely . to do that , the PHSO have provide some guideline that we need to follow . Parliament should take immediate step to find a resolution for those who do not have time on their side . each case should be consider on its own merit . finite resource be not an excuse for fail to provide a fair remedy . if Parliament choose to do nothing , that will undermine the ombudsman . the Department for Work and Pensions should respect what Parliament recommend . there must be a commitment from Government to take on board the PHSO ' s finding and to work collegiately with Parliament in find and then implement a fair and just remedy . a wide issue that need to be consider , perhaps in the first instance by the right hon . member for East Ham and his Committee , be the breakdown in communication and implementation of policy in the DWP , go back over 30 year . I accept that the Department ' s remit be large , challenging and complicated , but the PHSO highlight repeat failure in the Department ' s communication of state pension reform . we must not let cause become more important that effect . as my hon . friend describe , it be right that we look at why and how this happen , but what really matter be what happen , because what the WASPI woman need be action quickly . if we be to spend a great deal of time look at the genesis of the issue , I be not sure that quick action would be deliver , so I endorse what the right hon . member for East Ham say about establish criterion that can be effect with reasonable speed . I thank my right hon . friend for that point , which he make quite well . I be divert slightly from the main cause and theme , but I think he and I be on the same page . as I say , I be concern about repeat failure in the Department ' s communication . only last Saturday , a constituent highlight to I how the introduction of the new state pension penalise those woman bear in 1951 and 1952 . the end Frozen Pensions campaign point out that 85 % of frozen pensioner do not know of the policy ' s existence prior to move abroad . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? very briefly , because this be a side issue . the report acknowledge that the DWP be now modernise its system so that people be inform , but do he agree that move to a modernised system might pose a risk , specifically to pensioner who be digitally exclude , that something similar could happen again in future ? my hon . friend make a good point . it be a side point to the main point , but nevertheless the PHSO have pinpoint that issue . these be debate for another day . I suspect the right hon . member for East Ham and his Committee need to look at these issue in more detail , but the PHSO have shine a spotlight on a wide problem . the aim of the APPG that I co - chair with the hon . member for Salford and Eccles be threefold : first , to represent those woman who have be treat unjustly by the short - notice change to the state pension age , 280 , 000 of whom have die , accord to WASPI , since the start of the campaign ; secondly , to develop and promote policy solution to support 1950 - bear woman and their family who do not have access to their pension and be face mental and physical health consequence ; and thirdly , to feed the view and experience of 1950 - bear woman into future policy decision relate to state pension and welfare . over the year , the APPG have have regular evidence - gather session with various representative group , and we have consider policy and initiative to good help and assist they . in January 2022 , the APPG make its own submission to the PHSO about the level of compensation that should be provide . I give special thank to the hon . member for Denton and Reddish for the work that he and his office do put that together . base on the evidence present to we from across the UK , we reach what , for we , be the logical conclusion that level 6 of the PHSO ' s compensation scale should apply . subsequently , we refine that recommendation by propose that compensation should be provide in a bell curve , with those who receive least notice of the long postponement receive the most compensation , and those who receive long notice of short increase receive less sum . may I take the opportunity to thank my hon . friend for his key role in the APPG ? I put on the record the dignified and well - inform view of local WASPI co - ordinator in my part of the world , Shelagh Simmons and Sal Robinson . we hear an intervention suggest each case should be judge on its individual circumstance . I can see the merit in that , but it would have a devastating effect on the speed with which we would come to conclusion . what balance do my hon . friend think should be strike on those two factor ? my sense be that there be a need to strike a balance , as the PHSO say . a way forward be begin to emerge from the work of the APPG and the Select Committee , and I will elaborate on that . since the PHSO publish its report on 21 March , the APPG have seek to play its role , as part of Parliament , in find a fair and just mechanism , as quickly as possible , as the PHSO ask Parliament to do . the hon . member for Salford and Eccles and I write to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , and we have subsequently meet the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool North and Cleveleys ( Paul Maynard ) , who be now back in his place . I thank he for the hearing he give we . last Tuesday , the hon . member for Salford and Eccles and I appear before the Work and Pensions Committee — likewise , I be grateful to the right hon . member for East Ham and his colleague for the fair and full reception they provide . we be hold our own evidence session with the various representative group ; the first three session take place on Monday and there be more to follow . this be a complicated matter . while the APPG be yet to reach a settled and final recommendation about the form a compensation mechanism should take , it be fair to say that idea be fast evolve and be point in a direction . will the hon . Gentleman advise the House , as well as WASPI woman in West Dunbartonshire and across the UK , on whether one of those recommendation will be for a ministerial apology , on behalf of the Department , for where we be now ? PHSO suggest an apology from the DWP should be encapsulate in what it come up with as a way forward . the DWP ' s own guideline include an apology as well . I will focus on the form of compensation redress , which be emerge in a little more detail . while the PHSO have suggest that compensation should be pay at level 4 on their scale , there be disquiet among those affect that that be too low and that level 6 should apply , in line with the APPG ' s recommendation . the PHSO comment that a flat rate be easy to implement but not perfect , and that there may well be a need for a balance act , as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) suggest in his intervention . the PHSO also suggest that the National Audit Office may be able to provide guidance on how to structure a compensation scheme . the WASPI group have emphasise , as we have hear , the need for speed , simplicity and sensitivity , and it recommend that the DWP should bring forward proposal for a financial redress scheme to Parliament before the summer recess . it also propose that high payment should be target at those most impact . the Work and Pensions Committee be to be commend for get out its recommendation in less than 10 day after its evidence session . it also ask the Government to bring forward proposal for the summer recess . it , too , propose that payment should be base on the extent of change to an individual ' s state pension age , and the notice of change that they receive . it add that there should be some flexibility for individual to be able to make the case for a high level of compensation base on experience direct financial loss . clear parameter as to the form that the compensation should take , I sense , be rapidly evolve . Parliament , in the past two month since the PHSO publish its report , in its various different guise be play its role to the full . I would suggest that now be the time for the Government to step up to the plate . a mechanism should be put in place before the summer recess . I acknowledge that the matter be complicated , and that there be a need for contemplation and reflection , but we should have in mind that the most notable achievement of this Government be that , under enormous pressure in a very short timescale , they put in place a furlough scheme that save hundred of thousand of job and get we through covid . there be no reason why the Government can not move with such speed and alacrity again . I would add that failure to comply with the PHSO ' s recommendation would be almost completely unprecedented over the 70 year that the ombudsman have exist and would drive a coach and horse through what be an integral part of our parliamentary system of democratic check and balance . in conclusion , I support this motion . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) for her blistering and brilliant opening speech . she speak for many of our constituent and for those member who can not be here today . we must remember , as other member have say , that WASPI woman be not just some distant , transient group , but real people with real life , and that this injustice have have a real impact . they be mother , grandmother , great grandmother , sister , aunt , carer and daughter . many have pass away in the time that we have be try to secure they justice . I find it remarkable that the ombudsman have such little faith in the government that it be turn to Parliament to try to find a resolution and a remedy . and we owe it to those WASPI woman to do so . we have take an oath of office to our constituent — all of we — to find a resolution and a solution . sadly , it have become the business of this government to kick the can down the road , whatever the issue be . whether it be the Horizon scandal , primodo or contaminate blood , it seem to have become an ingrained and institutional habit to kick the can down the road and make those who have suffer at the hand of Government to wait even long . a Conservative Member make the point about the cost of redress and remedy , and of course we must recognise that . but in do so we must also recognise the money that have already be spend by the civil service and the money and the time that have be spend by our constituency staff and all of we . I suspect that the amount of money and time that have be spend on this report be almost equal to the money that need to be pay to bring redress to the WASPI woman . while we be look at what remedy we can find and what money can be seek , perhaps we should be look at proceed of crime money . perhaps we should be look at the russian oligarch who need to have their asset seize — or have have their asset seize — proper sanction against those who launder money , and the dirty money that flow through the financial institution of the UK . I have sit on Bill Committees in this House and see the Government take lacklustre action . the money be there ; it be about political will , as my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran say . I have have many representation from the 6 , 500 WASPI woman in my Livingston constituency , and today I want to give they a voice . Shirley Sharp be bear in October 1954 . she take early retirement from the Scottish Government in December 2008 , when she be 54 . before decide to leave , she contact the pension service and receive her forecast . she say : " I know when I leave my job I would receive my pension on 6 / 3 / 2019 when I be 64 year 6 month old . after I leave another 18 month be add to my pension age which I couldn ' t make provision for . to add insult to injury my husband be 8 month old than I and he receive his pension 14 month before I do . if it be about equality why be I penalise 6 month more than man ? I have be in receipt of my state pension since 6 / 9 / 2020 . I be still very angry about how this whole thing have be / be be handle . " another constituent , who do not want to be name , take early retirement from the civil service and look after elderly relative for four year until 11 month before her 60th birthday . at that point , her sister ask she whether she be plan on get a part - time job . she say that she be exhausted and that she could manage financially as long as she get her pension in 11 month ' time . she could not believe it when she be tell that her pension at age would be 66 . she think that her leg be be pull . she phone the DWP , which confirm what she have be tell , but she have " never have any communication " about this from the DWP . another constituent , Anne Seenan , miss out on £ 14 , 000 , have have her state pension delay by two year . she say : " I never receive any communication from the DWP " . another constituent , Dianne Risbridger , say : " unfortunately I be one of the woman affect by a chronic life limit illness which add to the distress , as well as be bear a mere three week after the cut off date for appeal , so a double whammy in my case . " another constituent , Jill Parton , be watch this debate . she be an incredible woman who I know well . she say : " unfortunately , I be one of the ten of thousand of woman , bear in the 1950 , who have be badly affect by the rapid rise in State Pension Age for woman . I work part time while I be train to become a teacher and start full time work in August 1975 when I be 20 . I always expect that I would receive my State Pension at age 60 . I marry in 1977 and continue work full time . " Jill take six month off to have her two child . she separate from her husband before her son be bear . she find out that she would not receive her state pension at 60 during a staff meeting . she remind I today that her divorce settlement , like those of many of her constituent , be predicate on when she would get her state pension . unfortunately , she also live with a diagnosis of Fuchs ' corneal dystrophy . the unpredictability of the condition , and the impact of teaching under bright light , mean that she could not teach . she say : " I find it very difficult to understand the government position on this . while they be make ten of thousand of woman work until 66 they have even more young people who can ' t get job . for the mental health of all concern would it not be more economical to allow the 60 + woman to retire and the young jobless to have their job ? " mental health worry affect many people . Jill be deeply concerned about the impact that the issue have have not just on she , but on many other . the bottom line be that we be talk about a social contract between our constituent and the Government . many of these woman have already suffer great discrimination throughout their life and have not be able to pay their " full stamp " , as it be call back in the day . they have no idea this be go to happen . it be not good enough for some to say that the communication be adequate . put out a press release be not proper communication . the Government need to get a grip on this issue , and understand the profound impact that it have have on other constituent of mine : Susan Rankin , Chaw Atkinson , Elizabeth Donnelly , Linda Howieson , Meg Wilson , Marion Wight , Margaret Diamond , Anne Waugh and Gloria Fairgrieve . I want to read their name out because they be real people with real life , and this be have a real impact on they . if there be one decent thing that the Government could do before they be boot out of office , it would be to give the WASPI woman the justice that they deserve . I rise to speak on behalf of the 6 , 180 woman across Stockton South affect by this issue — woman I come across every day in all corner of my constituency , and from all walk of life . my mother be a WASPI woman . she find out while chat to her sister . know my mother , that will have be an interesting conversation . I have have many conversation with constituent about the issue , and the impact that it have have on their life . none of they dispute the need to equalise the pension age for man and woman , and they all understand the challenge of communicate that change to the public , but they want justice and fair treatment from the system that they have spend their life pay into . after year of debate under government of both colour , we have arrive at the point at which an independent ombudsman have tell we that the WASPI woman be wrong ; maladministration occur ; and there should be compensation for those woman affect . the system that they pay into all their life be mean to provide they with comfort in retirement . they base their life plan around it , and now the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman report confirm that the change be make without adequate notice . that have a huge impact on those affect and their family . these woman lose the chance to make informed decision in prepare for retirement . I have hear story of woman who work all their life and deserve to retire with dignity , but who have instead be force to rely on help from their husband or even their child . those most affect be often those already vulnerable : widow and those live alone ; those with health issue ; and those already face financial hardship . I be glad that we now have the ombudsman ' s report , but this issue have go on for way too long . these woman have wait a long time for justice , and as we have hear , for some it be now far too late . I pay tribute to all the WASPI woman in my constituency and far afield who have campaign tirelessly for year , and exhaust every avenue to right this wrong . I urge the Government to consider the report as quickly as possible , and ensure that the WASPI woman get the fair and fast compensation that they deserve . I thank the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) for his comment , which I associate myself with , and for his hard work over the year on the all - party parliamentary group . I also thank the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) and the Backbench Business Committee for secure this important debate . we all know how we get here . for people watch at home , many woman bear in the 1950 retire at 60 in the belief that they would receive their full state pension , only to realise that the Government have increase the retirement age by five year and not tell they . many have hand in their notice at work , and in many case those woman be force to exist on meagre welfare benefit that leave they live a hand - to - mouth existence . many be leave destitute . some even lose their home . many experienced depression , and some be even suicidal . that be a scandal and a clear injustice . I give my warm thank to all the 1950 woman against state pension inequality campaign group , on behalf of myself , the hon . member for Waveney and all member of the all - party group . I also thank the 5 , 000 woman in my constituency of Salford and Eccles who be bear in the 1950 , in particular a lady call Judith Robertson and the woman of the WASPI Campaign 2018 , who have set up stall in our local supermarket , and lobby I and other mp on this important issue . we all recognise the determination and strength of these brave woman . their relentless campaigning against this profound injustice be the reason why we be here today . the issue be not whether these woman face injustice ; the ombudsman ' s report make it clear that they do , that the DWP be guilty of maladministration , that these woman be entitle to compensation urgently from the Government , and that Parliament must urgently identify a mechanism for ensure that . I will briefly make a few comment about the ombudsman ' s report for clarity . first , it be important to stress that the ombudsman have look at only one aspect of injustice : maladministration by the DWP — that is , whether they adequately notify the woman affect by the change to their pension age . the ombudsman ' s remit be not to look at the wide discriminatory impact of the policy ; that have be leave unaddresse . sadly , the UK ' s pension system systematically favour man in this age group . they often receive high state pension , and even high private pension . many of these woman affect spend significant period out of the workforce care for their child and family member . that be couple with a gender pay gap that be far more acute during their time in the workforce than it be today , so they be already at a disadvantage in term of their ability to contribute to their private and state pension . the only element that go some small way towards address the gender pension gap be that the national insurance pension be pay to woman from age 60 , whereas it be pay to man from age 65 . obviously , that advantage be take away . the fairness and the gender impact of the policy need to be urgently address , and I hope that we continue to fight for that in this House , but today we be focus on the ombudsman ' s finding . the key finding be that the failure by the DWP to adequately inform thousand of woman of their state pension age constitute maladministration . the ombudsman also find that , as a result , some woman have lose opportunity to make informed decision about their finance , and that the DWP ' s failure have diminish woman ' s sense of personal autonomy and financial control . the ombudsman also recommend that the DWP acknowledge its failing and apologise for its impact on those affect . the report conclude very clearly that the woman concern be entitle to compensation urgently . we have discuss what the remedy could look like , and the report be very clear that it leave that open to Parliament to determine . crucially , it say that finite resource should not be use as an excuse for fail to provide a fair remedy . this be a clear injustice and should be treat as one . if we go down the path of decide which injustice be and be not deserve , we be in very dangerous territory . the report also point out that HM Treasury require compensation scheme to be efficient and effective , and to deliver value for money . in particular , any administrative cost associate with compensation scheme should not be excessive . that lead the ombudsman to suggest that while Parliament might favour a mechanism for assess individual claim of injustice , it might want to consider the point that a flat - rate payment would deliver a more efficient resolution . a note of caution here : it be important that we consider the impact of that carefully , as some woman may be pay far less compensation than they be entitle to . on the amount of redress , as we hear from the hon . member for Waveney , the ombudsman ' s guidance on financial remedy set out six level of compensation . the ombudsman suggest that solely in the very small set of six case that it assess , the range could be within level 4 , but in further session with the Work and Pensions Committee last week , it acknowledge that that small subset may not cover all the extreme financial situation that many woman affect have face ; that could be address by an appropriate redress mechanism that Parliament look at . all the woman ' s campaign group that have contact the all - party group so far have state that set compensation at level 4 would be grossly insufficient , and I agree . when gather evidence , the all - party group find that in a vast number of case the injustice be actually at level 6 , and that be the recommendation that the all - party group make to the ombudsman . a whole range of option be be discuss , from a flat - rate payment to a flat - rate taper payment , the bell curve that the hon . member for Waveney speak about , a flat - rate payment with top - up over a five - year period or mediation for 1950 woman alongside an initial payment , to address the full scale of loss and discrimination face . whatever option Parliament choose to take , it be important that it be not mean - test , that it be fast , fair and enshrine in legislation and , most importantly , that it garner the support of the woman affect . however , there be one major hurdle before we . before we even get to the point of discuss and fine - tune any proposal the Government have , they must first lay before Parliament their propose redress mechanism . there be no excuse for delay . the report be lay before Parliament in March ; it be now May , and still we have no Government response . it be just not acceptable . we have hear that nearly 280 , 000 woman have already die wait for justice and as we speak , at least one woman will die wait for justice every 13 minute . I say to the Government , " just do the right thing and , as a matter of urgency , lie before Parliament a mechanism for redress so we can all act in accordance with the ombudsman ' s recommendation . " I begin by commend my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) , not only for secure this debate on the ombudsman ' s report , but for her continued determination in represent the WASPI woman and seek the justice that they have be so cruelly deny by their own government . those include woman such as Mary Barclay from Bellshill , who come to my advice surgery just on Friday to ask I to come to this House today and ask this Government to do the right thing by she and the thousand of other woman who have have the rug pull out from underneath they . she also speak to I about some of the 280 , 000 woman who have die during this fight for justice and how , along with thousand across my Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill constituency , she will continue to fight for what they be entitle to . I put on record my thank to Mary for the time she spend inform I of the real and deep impact that this issue have have on she in later life . across Scotland , it be estimate that almost 356 , 000 woman be impact by the WASPI pension scandal . many of the woman affect be already in ill health . other have take early retirement and be plan to get by until the age of 60 , when they think they would receive their state pension . however , Westminster Tories have a different idea . the UK Government instead invent reason for countless delay in the hope that the WASPI woman would simply go away , but I think they have prove that they will not go away — no chance . their campaign for justice continue . I return to that figure of some 280 , 000 woman who have pass away without see the justice that be owe to they . as many as 40 , 000 woman be die every year without get any form of compensation . that be outrageous and wilful neglect of the duty of any Government . it be shameful . it be a betrayal of the most callous kind of those impact by the UK Government ' s maladministration . the SNP welcome the finding of the PHSO ' s report , and it be clear that the Westminster Government must now take responsibility for the hardship that they have cause woman bear in the 1950 and make urgent amend for mistake make . WASPI woman have be struggle for year now with this injustice , and just about every other whim and decision that emanate from this place have also take its toll . we have hear about the Horizon scandal and the infected blood scandal , but there be also the cut to pension credit for mixed - age couple , the freezing of the hard - earn state pension of pensioner live overseas , and this Government ' s scrapping of free tv licence for the over - 75 . all those decision impact on WASPI woman . on top of the self - inflict cost of living crisis , it be just become too much for some of they . the UK Government must not only apologise for the harm cause by their clear and obvious maladministration , but act urgently to deliver the justice and the compensation that these woman so richly deserve . the report be clear and damning . it have make a finding of failing by the DWP in this case and have rule that the woman affect be owe compensation . the PHSO ' s chief executive Rebecca Hilsenrath say : " DWP have clearly indicate that it will refuse to comply . " that be outrageous . she continue : " this be unacceptable . the Department must do the right thing and it must be hold to account for failure to do so . " to this very day the DWP have not acknowledge its failing . it have also fail to offer any apology or explanation , and have indicate that it will not compensate woman affect by its failure . the SNP here in Westminster and in government in Holyrood have always support and will continue to support the WASPI woman and their valiant effort , yet many here in Westminster who be previously very vocal in support the WASPI woman have now fall eerily silent . the very same can be say for prominent Tory and Labour figure up the road in Holyrood as well . on 1 May the Scottish Parliament move a motion on woman ' s state pension compensation that " agree that the UK Government must now urgently deliver on the ombudsman ' s recommendation to pay compensation in full to those woman without delay " . that motion pass in the Scottish Parliament with vote from the SNP , the Liberal Democrats , the Scottish Greens and the Alba party . the Tories and the Labour party shamefully abstain on that vote , and that speak volume . it certainly speak a lot more than the silence that come from their Benches . I have to say that , if the WASPI woman be pin their hope on an incoming Labour Administration , they probably need to prepare themselves for yet more despair . why be that ? they need only familiarise themselves with the length that the Labour administration in North Lanarkshire Council go to in order to avoid pay out on equal pay claim owe to woman over many year — spend million upon million of pound on legal fee in the process of fight those justify claim , and then lose . the same happen , as we have hear , in Labour - run Glasgow City Council . those two party , the Tories and Labour , be not interested in equality for woman ; the evidence be before we , friend , so forgive I if I have no faith whatsoever in the change that the Labour party be purport to offer . labour could , of course , surprise we ; it could support the State Pension Age ( Compensation ) Bill in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , of which I be a co - sponsor . the UK Government and the Labour party could and should back his Bill and immediately set up a compensation scheme for all the woman affect . we know that they will not , but we be ask they here today and reinforce those call . it be clear that only a strong SNP voice in Holyrood and here in Westminster can hold this or any UK Government to account , whether it be a Tory or a labour - lead Government . we have hear demand that the Secretary of State here in Westminster should apologise , and quite clearly he should , but my hon . friend will remember that 10 year ago , almost to the day , a very senior former Labour Prime Minister be do the round in Scotland , speak at meeting of middle - aged and elderly people , promise they categorically that their pension be safe with any United Kingdom Government . do my hon . friend believe that it be now time that an apology come from that politician for the way that he deceive and mislead million of people in Scotland ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . that be just one of the mistruth we be tell during that campaign — we be also tell that we would maintain our place in the European Union . the WASPI woman have be completely shaft , for want of a well word , by the politician who be charge with deliver justice for they . the SNP and the Scottish Government in Holyrood stand ready to engage with the Department for Work and Pensions when the UK Government finally agree to compensate the WASPI woman . there be still hope that this Government will agree to do so , because justice should be do . after year of promise make by Tory and Labour mp and msp , both party be now refuse to accept the report ' s recommendation to compensate fully the woman who have be impact . it be time for the Tory and Labour party to stop dither and to put the funding in place so that these woman can get the justice they deserve before it be too late . it should also be crystal clear once again — this be not an extreme proposition and it should not be see as such — that the only way to protect Scotland ' s pensioner from the whim of Westminster Governments and to ensure dignity and fairness in retirement be for Scotland to have the full power of its independence . this issue be very close to my heart , and I thank the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) and the Backbench Business Committee for the opportunity to speak about it in the Chamber . however , some member be not work with good will and consensus and base on the cross - party work that have be do — in particular , that of the APPG lead by my hon . friend the Member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) and her co - chair , the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , whom I thank for their work . I have be acutely aware of the 1950 woman ' s state pension injustice for a long time . I have family and friend , as well as thousand of constituent , who have be impact by it . since I be elect in 2017 , I have write to and meet numerous woman in Gower bear in the 1950 who have share their experience and tell I of the profound impact this issue have have on their life . I lead an Adjournment debate on the matter back in 2019 , and have work to represent woman affect throughout my time as an MP , by support their complaint to the ombudsman and speak at every opportunity . the then Conservative Chancellor ' s decision to accelerate increase in the state pension age in the Pensions Act 2011 produce considerable hardship for many woman , as it mean that a lot of they receive little notice of an increase in their state pension age . the Government fail to communicate the change effectively : some woman be give only one year ' s notice , while other get up to five year ' notice , but many receive none at all . that put those woman in a serious position . woman who have already make plan base on previous pension statement have to scramble on and continue to work to make end meet . woman ' s income in retirement be already significantly affect by unequal and low pay at work , pregnancy discrimination , discrimination against part - time worker and a lack of affordable childcare and carer support . recently , my constituent Carrie Williams come to visit my surgery . she be in the first cohort of woman affect . initial leaflet on change state that the increase to 65 would happen in 2020 . she then receive a letter in 2013 inform she that the change would be in force from 2018 , and would gradually increase from then , mean that she would have to wait not until she be 65 , but until her 66th birthday — an extra year — before be able to receive her state pension . follow a period of poor health , the knowledge that she would not be get her pension for several year more make she increasingly stress and — combine with other issue that she have with the DWP at the time , which be affect her income — lead to she again fall ill and have a seizure . correspondence of the various change be litter with suggestion that Carrie pay for a financial advisor , which as a single mother in poor health she could not afford to do . she do not have spare cash just lie around to set up a new saving pot , an ISA or anything else that be suggest as an apparent solution to her problem . I be glad to share that Carrie be now in good health , but unfortunately for she , as for many of the woman affect , that be not the end of it . not only do she unexpectedly have to wait until 66 to access her state pension , but the amount that she receive from it have drastically reduce year on year due to fiscal drag . I would not have believe it have Carrie not bring I about six or seven year - worth of evidence . this Conservative Government ' s recklessness with our economy be squeeze everyone ' s finance — I have see it with my own eye — and exacerbate the hardship that the WASPI woman have already endure . this have be a long and frustrating process for the woman affect . several group represent they . the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign be probably the well know , but there be also the Pension Justice for Swansea Women campaign , which include woman from my constituency and other in the local area . a lot be hinge on the ombudsman ' s report . it take some time , but we now have it . it be a serious report that require serious consideration , and the Government must not use it to continue kick the can down the road , as they have do over the past 14 year . the report find the DWP guilty of maladministration . the Secretary of State say in March that he would provide a further update to the House on the matter , but be yet to do so . he should update Parliament , or tell we when he will finally do so . although there be strong feeling and a variety of ask , the overarching issue be that an injustice must be address . lesson must be learn to ensure that this never reoccur , and that everyone have the right to properly plan for their retirement . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) for secure the debate and the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . it be my privilege to speak on behalf of WASPI woman , particularly those in the Falkirk WASPI woman group , who have be with I for a long time . I hold a public meeting way back in 2015 for the approximately 7 , 000 woman in my constituency who be affect by the state pension age change . I discover that the overwhelming majority of those who attend have not receive any notification of the change . the majority of woman be only one year away from the original retirement age of 60 year , and face a further six year of work life without any warning . many have already start to make plan to retire because of ill health or their caring duty for grandchild and / or elderly parent . it be not just the woman who be badly affect by these change ; family member also have to make change or other arrangement in their life . a cohort of the Falkirk woman get together and form the Falkirk group in 2016 . they make arrangement to join the very first demo down here in London in June 2016 . since then , they have participate in other demo — both here and in Scotland — and in 2019 , they publish a calendar , from which all proceed go to Breast Cancer Care . local co - ordinator Anne Campbell and I have have many discussion and meeting about this issue , along with other stalwart of the group — namely , May Rookes , Mags Burns , Lorna Binnie , Sheila Harkness , Elizabeth Lumsden , Maureen Mcleod , Valerie Sutter , Ruth McIntosh , Helen Reeder , May Farrell , Elspeth Slater and many other woman campaign on this total injustice . I pay tribute to they all . the Falkirk Women be positive and strong in their endeavour to right the wrong that be foist upon they in the cruell and most calculate way . I praise they and the rest of the WASPI woman for their organisational skill . they would like an apology and compensation for the turmoil thrust upon they . they want respect , dignity , and , most importantly , a fair and fast compensation scheme to redress the injustice . it be fair to say that those woman be not go away , so the Government ignore they at their peril . the WASPI woman need an answer , and they need it now — no more unnecessary delay . the Government can and should resolve this pitiful state of affair here and now , and do the right and proper thing by put an end to this bureaucratic shamble . they must not procrastinate any long . action be require , not more word . stop insult the WASPI woman . compensate they now , with speed and simplicity . I pay tribute to all the WASPI woman and other campaign on this issue in Wirral West and across the UK , and those who be in the Gallery this afternoon . I stand in solidarity with they — I myself be a 1950 - bear woman . I pay tribute to all who have sadly pass away , too . I believe it be important to consider the broad pension landscape , and the discriminatory and quite frankly sexist nature of provision that have adversely affect 1950 - bear woman . for example , rule that require a fix number of qualifying year to be eligible for a pension have disproportionately adversely affect woman . in 1973 , the right to a deferred pension be introduce for those who leave service on or after 6 April 1975 , provide that they be over 25 year old and have complete at least five year ' service . one WASPI campaigner tell I that she have work for the Army for four year and then leave after she have have her baby . she receive no pension for those year , which be grotesquely unfair . that five - year qualifying period , which clearly discriminate against woman , be reduce to two year from April 1988 , and so it remain for the Army and civil service today . again , I believe that this be discriminatory , and I ask the Minister to look into it . part - time worker have be similarly adversely affect by the design of pension scheme . there be insufficient time to provide detail today ; however , woman have clearly be disproportionately affect by that , too , as they be by the current earning threshold of £ 10 , 000 per year for auto - enrolment . again , I ask the Minister to look at address that discriminatory element of what be otherwise a very important policy that affect large number of woman and man on low pay . woman bear in the 1950 have already be adversely affect by pension policy . the pension gender gap be still high : analysis by the DWP publish in 2023 put that gap at 35 % , mean that woman have 35 % less private pension wealth than man at age 55 , the minimum age at which most people can start to take their pension . woman have less state pension , too : analysis by the Institute for Fiscal Studies last year show that woman bear in the early 1950 receive around 5 % less state pension income than man . the reason include have spend less time in pay employment compare with woman bear in later period , and the way that the rule for entitlement to the state pension before the introduction of the new state pension in 2016 create a significant gap between pension for man and woman . for example , before 1978 , married woman could opt to pay a married woman ' s stamp , mean that they pay low national insurance contribution and then receive a low state pension . it be scandalous , too , that many of the woman who pay that married woman ' s stamp do not receive all the pension that they should have be entitle to , due to the complex rule and computer error by the DWP . then , of course , the gender pay gap mean that woman be pay on average less into their occupational pension . all those thing be still affect woman today , so it be in that context that I ask the Minister to act swiftly in relation to the parliamentary and health service ombudsman ' s report on woman ' s state pension age . the WASPI campaign have shine a light on how the change affect woman : many 1950 - bear woman find out about the change to their state pension age at a time that be too late for they to alter their retirement plan . other have say that they have no idea that they would have to wait long to receive their state pension . as a result , many woman have suffer financial hardship and emotional distress . a survey of around 8 , 000 WASPI woman carry out in December of last year find that in the previous six month , 55 % of WASPI woman have see their economic position get bad , 49 % have struggle to pay essential bill , and shockingly , 25 % have struggle to buy food . as we have hear from Members right across this House , our constituent have speak about how they have be personally affect . one woman in Wirral West tell I that she have struggle to feed herself and have have to sell her home as a result of how she be affect . another constituent write to I recently to say that she feel rob of her future , and still feel that she be be ignore . it be insulting to those woman that the Minister have barely acknowledge the clear maladministration that the ombudsman say occur . can he tell we today when his Department will acknowledge that maladministration , and will he apologise for it ? because of " significant concern " that the ombudsman have " that DWP will fail to remedy the injustice " , it have take the " rare decision " to bring matter to Parliament ' s attention , and specifically to ask Parliament " to intervene and identify a mechanism for provide appropriate remedy " . the ombudsman ' s report set out what that remedy might look like . it also say that it be " open to DWP to forestall this process " by act on what the ombudsman say to Parliament . will the Minister take this opportunity to do just that — to look carefully at what the ombudsman have say , and come forward with fair and fast compensation for the woman affect ? Jane Cowley , the WASPI campaign manager , say last week at a Work and Pensions Select Committee oral evidence hear that " we have attempt to meet with the Minister throughout our campaign but unfortunately those request have never be accept . " this be incredibly disappointing . that campaign be act on behalf of 3 . 5 million woman adversely affect — it be utterly astonishing that the Minister should show they such little respect . time be of the essence for the Government to put thing right . accord to the WASPI campaign group , by this weekend , 280 , 000 WASPI woman will have die since their fight for justice begin . to put it another way , as have already be say in this House , one woman die every 13 minute . the Government talk about support all pensioner to have a dignified retirement , but can the Minister honestly stand at the Dispatch Box and say that his Government be treat these WASPI woman with the dignity and respect they deserve ? last week , at the Select Committee ' s oral evidence hearing , Angela Madden , the chair of the WASPI campaign , express frustration that the DWP " have never accept that they have do anything wrong " . when will the Government remedy the injustice that so many 1950 - bear woman have face ? minister must apologise to those woman who have suffer as a result of Government failing , and must bring forward fair and fast compensation as a matter of urgency . I commend the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) for secure this debate , and the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . however , I do think it be disappointing that the Government have not seek to have a debate on this issue in Government time , particularly when there be quite clearly cross - party consensus about the need for speed on it follow the ombudsman ' s report . I hope the Minister will be come forward with some clear proposal today about where we go , and I hope he be also hear how strong the feeling be across the House that the Government need to do something quickly . on Monday , we have an impassioned debate in this place about the role of member , and speech after speech state that we in this place must uphold the high standard and set the good example of good practice . there be argument make by other about the importance of democracy and representation , and I may not have agree with the conclusion they reach from those argument in many case , but I can not fault their dedication to this place and to the job that we do here on behalf of our constituent . we should all therefore be able to support the basic idea that , when someone be wrong , and an independent body investigate and make recommendation for recompense , those recommendation must be action . the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) , who be no long in his place , make a very important point about the fact that we as constituency MPs refer constituent on to the ombudsman . how can any of we continue to do that in the future if the Government and indeed this place choose to ignore recommendation make by that ombudsman ? the Government be not above the law , and we be here represent our constituent . it be damn that the report from the ombudsman have to be send by the ombudsman to Parliament because , in its word , it have " significant concern … that DWP will fail to remedy the injustice " and acknowledge the maladministration . what do that say ? I expect the Minister will say that the Department need more time to consider its response , but have listen to the other member who have participate in the debate so far , I think many of we have no time for that any more , and certainly the WASPI woman do not . I listen with interest to the hon . member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) about the fact that female pensioner be most likely to be live in poverty . she make a very powerful and compelling case for that , and the reality be that the gender pension gap continue to this day because the gender pay gap also continue . we must have a social security system and a pension system that actually recognise the work woman do and be more likely to do from a caring perspective . I do a lot of work on that in relation to my Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 , but woman generally be more likely to work part - time or have time out of the workplace , so they be always go to experience low level of state pension . the injustice that WASPI woman have face be simply shameful . the financial burden have be outline , but the anxiety they feel be also huge . a constituent have contact I to tell I that the ordeal have have an enormous and horrible negative effect on her mental health , because she simply feel so powerless to do anything about it . do my hon . friend agree that this Government should immediately confirm that they will honour the ombudsman ' s recommendation , and come forward with a proper plan to compensate the million of affected woman ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her intervention , and I absolutely agree with she . we have have the report for some time , and I think the Government should be make a statement to say that they support it . it be quite clear that plenty of work have be do by both the APPG and the ombudsman to outline what a compensation scheme should look like . my hon . friend be right about the mental impact . I meet a constituent of mine , Heather , several week ago . she be a single woman , so she do not have a partner ' s or spouse ' s income — that be the assumption make about woman — to rely on . she have have to give up work as a teacher early than expect due to ill health , and feel that the injustice be compound by the Government not have yet acknowledge the ombudsman ' s report properly . the DWP have have full notice of the investigation by the PHSO and its finding , and I would argue that they should therefore have have the opportunity to plan accordingly . with regard to the infected blood scandal , the Government have say that when the report be finally publish on Monday , they will make a statement on what they will do very quickly thereafter . I feel , therefore , unmove by the argument that they need more time to respond to the ombudsman ' s report , when they have know for some time that it be come . the first report on maladministration be publish almost three year ago , so I just do not accept that the Government and the DWP have not have the time to consider the likely outcome of the finding . we know that a recommendation for compensation be likely , so I would have expect the DWP to have start make plan for administer it . while sit in the Chamber , I have be notify by my researcher that I have have a response to a write parliamentary question , which state that the Department do not have sight of a draft copy of the PHSO ' s report at the end of last year . my researcher have also confirm with the WASPI campaign — I have meet Angela Madden and other several time — who say that that be not the case , and that the Government do have sight of the draft report . I would be grateful for clarity from the Minister on that . I be happy to give way to he now — [ interruption ] — or perhaps he can comment on that write response to the parliamentary question in his closing remark . be it correct that the Government do not have sight of the draft report at the end of last year ? on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . opposition Members be complain about the fact that I dip my head in order to listen , and suggest that be somehow evidence of I not listen . I take exception to their criticism of my body position . your comment stand on the record . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I certainly be not suggest that to the Minister . I be say that I have two different version of event . the WASPI campaign be say that the draft report be see by the DWP at the end of last year , and I have a write response from the Government say that it be not . if the response to the write parliamentary question be find to be inaccurate , I would be grateful if the Minister write to I to confirm that . if he be unable to conform that in his closing remark , I would be grateful if he would place that letter in the Commons Library . I have do a lot of work with the Minister . previously he be heavily involved with I in the all - party parliamentary group on end the need for food bank , so I know that he care about people , but I really do not want to hear in his closing remark that this be just the Department be thorough . like many here , I have meet WASPI woman , and the campaigner who stand in the rain outside Parliament on Budget day . I have speak to group leader and to my constituent . the one message they want I to bring here today be that they be die . they be die without the DWP admit to its error , without any acknowledgement of the impact that this have have on their life , without compensation , and without resolution . frankly , they now feel that the Government be wait for they to die , in order for the problem literally to cease to exist . WASPI woman deserve compensation — that be not just my view or the view of many member in the House ; it be the view of the ombudsman . if we in this place can not adhere to the finding of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , what message be we send from this place generally ? Mr Deputy Speaker : " I be plunge into huge anger … upset … distress . I feel like I have be scamme . why hadn ' t anyone tell I my pension age have change ? why hadn ' t I know about it ? " those be the word of Hilary , who , like million of other woman bear in the 1950 , be hit by the change in the state pension age . Hilary be leave ten of thousand of pound bad off . she have budget for her state pension beginning at 60 , not six year later . she struggle to make end meet and start to look for another job , but she ask , " who ' s go to employ a woman in her late 50 ? " Hilary be not alone . million of woman bear in the 1950 be rob of their pension . a survey carry out by the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , to whose tireless advocacy I pay tribute today , particularly those WASPI woman in Coventry South , find that half the woman survey struggle to pay essential bill , and one in four struggle to put food on the table . but it be not just the financial hit ; it be the worry , stress and the feeling that they have make a mistake , and that it be their fault they do not know that the pension age have change . the ombudsman ' s report put that to bed once and for all . the fault for not know be not with those woman ; the fault be with the Government and the Department for Work and Pensions . there be maladministration in communicate the change and an injustice be do . that be what the ombudsman conclude , and it utterly vindicate the WASPI campaign . justice delay be justice deny , and every 13 minute a WASPI woman pass away and be forever deny justice . since the beginning of their campaign , 280 , 000 woman affect by the pension change have pass away , never to see this wrong right . it be utterly scandalous that the Government seem intent on drag their foot for as long as they can . on 24 March , after the ombudsman ' s report be publish , the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions tell the House that he would respond " without undue delay . " almost two month have pass , another 6 , 000 waspi woman have pass away and still this Government be do nothing . the Government have still fail to heed the report ' s recommendation " to identify a mechanism for provide appropriate remedy for those who have suffer injustice " , and that be no surprise . the report conclude that it strongly doubt that the DWP will provide a remedy to the injustice , so it be up to this place and all our colleague to rise to this challenge and to right this wrong . we have a recent example of that happen . after the Post Office Horizon scandal be bring to life in a tv drama , the Government respond to the public outcry and introduce legislation to address that injustice . it be the right thing to do , but it should not take Toby Jones and ITV for the Government to do their job . they need to act , and act now . I will finish with this : the ombudsman ' s report be right that an injustice be do . these woman lose out . some be make ten of thousand of pound worse off by these change . they be make to feel like they have make a mistake , as if the fault be theirs . the stress and pain have be immense . I will conclude by say that not only must the Government compensate these woman as a matter of urgency , but they must go beyond what have be recommend by the ombudsman , which be not nearly enough to cover the hurt , distress and lose income face by many of these woman . I join the WASPI campaign in call for fast and fair compensation , give justice to woman who have be deny it for too long already . I , too , thank my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) for secure this debate , and for her unflinche commitment and support for WASPI woman everywhere . this have be an important issue for I for a number of year . in fact , it be so important to I that I choose to raise it as a matter of urgency during my maiden speech in this Chamber in 2020 , when I highlight the scandalous situation experience by these woman . there be an estimate 3 . 8 million WASPI woman , although 280 , 000 have die since the start of the campaign , include my constituent Margaret Meikle and Morag Syne . those woman die without receive the compensation , apology or justice that they rightly deserve . there be about 6 , 800 WASPI woman in Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock . to some people , they be just number ; to I , every single one of they be an individual — a daughter and possibly a mother , a grandmother , a wife , a sister , an auntie , a carer and a friend . they be important . they matter . they have all have their hope , expectation and aspiration of retire at 60 with a reasonable pension crush by a lack of notice of a change to their pension age by the Government . each and every one of they deserve to be treat properly , and the grave injustice they have suffer should be put right by the Government . since my first contact with a WASPI constituent nine year ago , many have write to I and meet I , express their frustration , deal with burnout , care for elderly relative and miss out on time with partner , child and grandchild , all in the context of a cost of living crisis . many have also comment on the lack of pension income and have to use saving to survive , prevent they from buy clothe and present for their grandchild and seriously restrict any discretionary spending that would have be spend in the local economy . above all , they be leave with an overwhelming sense of injustice at not be inform of change to their state pension age , which have leave they understandably angry and resentful . the lack of information and the denial of choice by the Government have result in a reduce quality of life , serious financial loss , and sustain damage to their sense of worth , mental health and wellbeing . my hon . friend mention the enormous toll on the mental health and wellbeing of so many of these woman . do he agree that that damage have be deliberately make bad by the fact that they , almost alone of the million of people who have suffer from grave injustice and miscarriage of justice , have have a Government who claim to be look after they publicly say , " we will ignore the result of an independent inquiry and deny the fact that any injustice have be carry out against they " ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . how much might it cost to properly compensate the WASPI woman ? in March , the Times estimate that to pay they the ombudsman ' s paltry offer of between £ 1 , 000 and £ 2 , 850 would cost between £ 3 . 5 billion and £ 10 billion . the WASPI campaign be call for about three time as much — £ 10 , 000 — which would put the cost to the public purse at about £ 36 billion . it may be slightly more or slightly less , but by not pay the WASPI woman the pension they rightly deserve to date , the Government have already save £ 181 . 4 billion . in only the last eight month of 2023 , accord to the Office for National Statistics , UK Government total expenditure be £ 755 billion . the compensation demand by the WASPI woman be insignificant in that context . the fail covid test and trace system in England cost £ 37 billion , pay to former TalkTalk chief executive — and wife of a Conservative Member — Dido Harding for no reason whatsoever . that amount alone would have pay full compensation to all the WASPI woman to date . as many as 3 . 8 million woman be give the news that their state pension age be to increase from 60 to 66 just as they be about to retire , so too late for they to do any proper financial planning . many be already in ill health or bad , and other have take early retirement with a plan to get by until age 60 , when they think they would receive their state pension and look forward to a reasonably comfortable retirement . this be a long tale of suffering , misery and injustice not only for the woman affect , but endure by their immediate and extended family . it have be allow to go on for far too long . it need to be conclude without further delay . I therefore call on the Government to apologise unreservedly and to act to compensate woman affect by the bad pension scandal in history . they must do so immediately before even more WASPI woman die without have receive an apology , compensation or justice . I urge the DWP to bring proposal to Parliament for a financial redress scheme for all member to debate and vote on , include a mechanism for mp to put forward alternative before the summer recess . in those proposal , the Government should set out eligibility for the compensation scheme , the amount of compensation to be pay , the administration of the scheme and the timeframe for compensation to be pay . waspi woman everywhere have campaign to right this injustice , but may I pay tribute to the tireless work of Frances Brown and Lynn Paterson , the local WASPI co - ordinator from my area , who have give their good and their life to obtain compensation for all the other WASPI woman in our area and across the country ? I thank they for their support . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) , and I thank the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) for secure this important debate . I be rather disappointed that she use the opportunity to bash the Labour party . with all due respect , I point out that , have we win the election in 2017 — my right hon . friend the Members for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) can confirm this — this matter would have be settle . have the SNP not lose 13 seat to the Conservatives , we would not be have this debate ; we would have deliver justice for the WASPI woman and for the miner , who be desperate to have pension justice . I want to extend my personal appreciation to the dedicated woman of the WASPI campaign who have tirelessly campaign for nearly a decade for fair and timely compensation for 1950 woman affect by the DWP ' s maladministration . I do not recognise the criticism of Labour Members . I think that I have raise WASPI case on 25 occasion in 12 different debate and remember how many member be in their place . I remember a Westminster Hall debate where member be sit on the window sill because it be so crowded . every effort have be make to bring this injustice to the attention of the public and the Government . I thank the Sunderland , Durham and Hartlepool WASPI group , who have work diligently and assiduously in my constituency . I have have the pleasure of meeting and work with those remarkable woman over the past decade , and I be full of admiration for their dedication and selflessness . there be around 5 , 000 WASPI woman in my constituency , who have be wait patiently for the final ombudsman ' s report , which be publish in March . I be appal that the DWP refuse to comply with the report ' s recommendation . this unprecedented response undermine the ombudsman ' s authority and credibility . the Library find no other instance of a Government Department reject an ombudsman ' s finding . the DWP must own its mistake , apologise to the 3 . 8 million woman affect and swiftly deliver adequate compensation . there be no doubt that the DWP fail to notify 1950 woman of their state pension age change , and now it deny its wrongdoing , as the PHSO highlight . ignore the ombudsman ' s finding set a dangerous precedent , allow Government Departments to evade accountability . we mp have a responsibility to ensure that the Government establish a mechanism for redress . the urgency be critical . I do not want to rehearse the statistic , because they have be give many time , but the 1950 woman be die in number because of the age profile . in March , the Secretary of State promise an update , but as far as I be aware we be still wait for that . the Government ' s standard delay tactic — evident in case such as the mineworker ' pension scheme , the contaminate blood scandal , the Post Office Horizon scandal and now the WASPI woman — must end . the impact of the state pension age rise on those woman , with little or no notice , be profound . the APPG on state pension inequality for woman , chair by my hon . friend the Member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , highlight that woman feel worthless , ignore and disempowere , lead to severe mental health issue and , in some very sad case , suicide . there be no doubt that the DWP ' s maladministration have cause immense stress . the evidence align that with the PHSO ' s definition of level 6 emotional injustice , warrant compensation of up to £ 10 , 000 . as member have say , the Government have save £ 181 . 5 billion by accelerate the raising of the woman ' s state pension age . compensate WASPI woman by up to £ 10 , 000 would cost around £ 36 billion . that be a fraction of the saving accrue by the Treasury to date . I recently meet my constituent Denise McKenna and Kathleen Kerr , who illustrate the severe impact this issue have have . both start work at 16 . Kathy join the British Army and Denise start work at the Inland Revenue . in their late 50 they take early retirement due to ill health . they carefully manage their finance . they have only a few year , they think , until they reach their retirement . as a married couple who be both WASPI woman , Kathy and Denise suffer a double whammy — an immense financial loss , due to the pension age change . they receive no write notification of the change . the five - year delay to their pension mean that they lose in excess of £ 80 , 000 . they exhaust their life saving and be force to sell their home . surely that be not how we respect those who have work and serve our country . many WASPI woman like Denise and Kathy make significant life decision without know that their pension age have increase . that injustice demand financial redress . woman be force to return to work , despite disability and condition . that highlight this Government ' s disconnect from the reality that these woman face . a former Pensions Minister , the hon . member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , now a Transport Minister responsible for bus , suggest in a Westminster Hall debate in 2017 that the affected woman should retrain and take up apprenticeship — [ interruption . ] it be greet with a similar reaction at the time . that ignore the challenge of re - enter the labour market , and the disproportionate care - give responsibility that these woman bear . successive government have fail these woman . it be our responsibility and the duty of this Parliament to right this wrong . sadly , it be too late for the over 200 , 000 WASPI woman who have pass away since the campaign start in 2015 , but we can not delay any long . compensation be not just financial reimbursement , but recognition of the harm inflict on these woman . my appeal to the Minister be this : heed the call for justice , and acknowledge the emotional and psychological harm cause by the Government ' s decision and the DWP ' s maladministration . as representative of thousand of 1950s woman , it be our responsibility as member of Parliament to ensure that justice be serve . it be a considerable pleasure to follow my friend , the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) . we have work together on many issue over the year . I remember the debate in Westminster Hall that he mention , and the revulsion when it be say that 1950 WASPI woman should go on apprenticeship scheme . I be delighted that my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) and the Backbench Business Committee have secure this debate . it be worth reflect that the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman have ask Parliament to find a remedy for the WASPI woman who have suffer injustice ; it strongly doubt that the DWP will provide a remedy . let we just consider that . the ombudsman have proclaim that maladministration have take place , so it would be fair to expect the DWP to accept its moral and ethical responsibility to the woman affect and their elect parliamentarian , and to bring forward effective remedy for that maladministration . the report be publish a couple of month ago , but we have the interim report three year ago , so the report be not a surprise to any of we here . the Government know this day be come , and must now act with haste to bring forward remedy for the WASPI woman . the Government , if they be mean to be anything , be suppose to be root in fairness , recognise their duty to citizen , and when a judgment be make that there have be maladministration , they should respond in an appropriate and timely manner . it be a damn indictment that the ombudsman have no faith in the Government to provide the remedy , and have therefore take the unprecedented step of ask Parliament to intervene . it mean that we parliamentarian must in effect do the Government ' s job for they . collectively , member from right across the Chamber have to rise to that challenge . all of we here , every single Member of Parliament , have a responsibility to their constituent , many of whom will be look at we today , whether from the Gallery or on television , wait for we to take action . we can not have any more procrastination . we need to take action . let we remind ourselves that there be 3 . 8 million WASPI woman — 1950s - bear woman who be affect by change to the state pension age . they suffer from poor communication , which adversely affect the life choice that they be force to make . this issue must be resolve by this Parliament . it must not be kick down the road until after the election . the Scottish National party Westminster group commission a report on potential financial remedy for WASPI woman , which be present to the UK Government as long ago as June 2016 but which , sadly , be ignore . if the Government need advice , they might want to turn to Landman Economics , which produce that report . Parliament have , of course , debate this issue many time , in the Chamber and in Westminster Hall , and the work of the APPG should be commend . on 29 November 2017 , I open an SNP Opposition day debate on a motion call on the Government to improve transitional arrangement for woman bear on or after 6 April 1951 who be adversely affect by the acceleration in the increase in the state pension age . there be a vote at the end of the debate ; 288 member vote for the motion , and none against . the voting be cross party : five Conservative Members vote for the motion . if the Tory Government have accept that proposition , we would not be here now . why do the Government ignore that instruction from Parliament ? do my right hon . friend not think that that be , regrettably , typical of the attitude of this UK Government to the WASPI woman ? the Government hope that they will simply go away if they be ignore . that be heap insult on indignity , and it be wholly unacceptable . the life of constituent such as mine have be destroy by the UK Government ' s inability to see what need to be do . they deserve so much well from this Government . of course they do . we have hear today from a great many member in all part of the House about the 5 , 000 , 6 , 000 or 7 , 000 WASPI woman — more , in some case — in every constituency . we have all hear the heartbreaking story of those who simply could not afford to carry on working , and who be not give adequate notice of the increase in the state pension age . it be an injustice , and it need to be deal with . I should emphasise that this be never about the equalisation of man ' s and woman ' s pensionable age ; we all accept that there have to be such an equalisation . however , some of we will remember the 2016 Cridland review of pension . Cridland say that there should be no more than a one - year increase in anyone ' s pensionable age in every decade . the problem be the pace of the increase in woman ' s pensionable age . let we also remember that this be about woman who pay national insurance in anticipation of receive a pension , and who be hit with the bombshell that their pension be be defer , in many case by up to six year , with , in some case , only 15 month ' write notice . a state pension should be see as a right , but the Government change the term and condition of that right without consult those who be pay their pension . some time ago , thank to freedom of information request , we learn that the Department for Work and Pensions do not begin write to woman bear between April 1950 and April 1955 until April 2009 , and do not complete the process until February 2012 . despite the need to inform woman about change to legislation date back to 1995 , the Government do not start the formal notification period for 14 year . what be they do ? where be the responsibility to the woman affect ? take 14 year to begin inform woman that a pension that they have pay into be be defer be quite something . can we imagine the outcry if a private pension provider behave in such a way ? there would be an outcry in this House , and no doubt there would be legal action . give that entitlement to a state pension be earn through national insurance contribution , with many woman have make contribution for more than 40 year , that be quite staggering . a woman bear on 6 April 1953 who , under the previous legislation , would have retire on 6 April 2013 would have receive a letter from the DWP in January 2012 with the bombshell that she would not get a pension until July 2016 . think about receive such a letter . you think you be on the verge of retirement , and the rug have be pull from under you — no wonder there be a need to pay compensation to those affect . the new pensionable age be three year and three month later than such an individual might have expect . with just 15 month ' notice , what she think be a contract that she have with the Government be simply rip up . the implication of all this have leave woman with no time to put alternative plan in place , despite many have look forward to imminent retirement . then we have the issue of the change supposedly be phase in gradually . we be deal with a three - month increase in woman ' s pensionable age for each calendar month that pass . it be simply scandalous that woman ' s pensionable age be rise so rapidly . that be why today we have the moral duty to immediately correct a wrong . this have go on for too long . as have be say , sadly , 288 , 000 waspi woman have die since the campaign start . another die every 13 minute , and a number have no doubt die while we have be have this afternoon ' s debate . we have the ombudsman ' s report , and we have to put in place remedy now . the DWP have to play a part in bring forward proposal for a financial redress scheme before the summer recess , and those proposal must be amendable . most importantly , any scheme must clear the parliamentary process before the summer recess . we do not have long — less than nine week of parliamentary time . this mean that within day — I have respect for the Minister , as she know — the DWP must come forward with proposal . will the Minister respond appropriately to that demand ? it be now nearly two month since the ombudsman ' s report , and we can not wait any long . so many of the WASPI woman who have suffer as a result of maladministration should have receive financial remedy , which be why we must now take action , and this must not be a party political matter . it ought to be about all of we recognise a wrong that need to be right , and I appeal to member from right across the Chamber to recognise our responsibility to do the right thing . let we make sure that the WASPI woman get an apology and get compensation . this have be a timely and very powerful debate . we have hear some incredible contribution from many member , who have share first - hand knowledge of their constituent and the way they have be treat . I be very move by what be say by the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) about the couple in his constituency who have basically lose everything because of this whole sorry saga . some 3 . 8 million woman have be affect by this issue , and many have now die — possibly over 270 , 000 . this debate would not be happen if it be not for the bravery of the WASPI woman campaigner over many year . I have always be impress by their verve and the demand that they bring to any occasion , and by their dressing appropriately in suffragette colour — one can not miss they at any event or meet anywhere . we should pay tribute to all of they for the incredible work that they have put into draw attention to this grotesque injustice over many year . they deserve to know that they will get an answer that will give they some comfort and hope . in the last decade , only three or four ombudsman ' s report have go to Parliament because the Government have refuse to acknowledge or accept they . the whole principle of the ombudsman be that it be an independent , non - political office that make recommendation on the basis of the evidence it have collect . it go to a great deal of trouble to collect evidence and choose a sample of case to give a holistic view on the situation , so the very least we can do be expect that the Government will undertake to act on the report . I be very impressed by the Work and Pensions Committee ' s evidence session on 7 May . I be impress by the campaign ' s detail , by the evidence it present and by the commendable speed with which it respond to the Committee and to the all - party parliamentary group on state pension inequality for woman , chair by the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) and my hon . friend the Member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) . we need to thank the campaign for its work . the WASPI woman come up during the last two general election campaign , and let we be absolutely clear that my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and I commit that an incoming Labour Government would have deal with this issue , compensate the WASPI woman and accept that a grotesque injustice have be do . that would have be expensive but , as I try to explain in my interview with Andrew Neil , it would only have redress an injustice . it would not have be throw Government money around willy - nilly . treat people properly be a moral issue . many would say that Parliament be now confront with a problem not of its own making , and that it have to do something to try to resolve the issue . well , we be always confront with problem not of our own making . we do not make problem — [ interruption . ] well , I hope we do not make problem , but we have to deal with they . in the case of the problem that have recently come before we — the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , the injustice of freeze the pension rate for overseas pensioner , the Horizon scandal , and the enormous question of the contaminated blood scandal — we be here to resolve those problem and secure justice for people who have suffer a grotesque injustice . People look to Parliament to achieve that . we have the report , the information and the knowledge . we understand the injustice that have be do , the poverty that many people have be force into and the insult when a person in their 60 find that they can not access their pension and be tell by a DWP job adviser to take an apprenticeship , which be ludicrous . they know full well that they be not go to get it . those people feel a sense of hurt . they believe that they do the right thing , and they believe that the Government and the DWP have do the wrong thing by they . Rebecca Hilsenrath answer question 51 of the Work and Pensions Committee ' s evidence session , on whether information should have be make well available , which obviously it should have be , by say that service should be " user - focused " . she think that the information system be poor , and that the advertising of it be poor . clearly many very well informed people be not aware of the dangerous situation they be move into with their own personal finance . there be an opportunity to resolve this , and it could be resolve with a statement from the Government today undertake that , by 18 July , when I understand the summer recess start , they will put forward a proposal for a simple compensation scheme base on a formula , as the Chair of Work and Pensions Committee set out , to ensure that compensation can be speedily pay . if compensation be individualised , we would clearly have to deal with several million individual case , which would take a very long time . what we need be justice , and it be up to this Parliament to deliver that justice for woman who work so hard to deliver the service from which we have all benefit . we owe it to they , and we can do it now . it be a pleasure to follow my good friend and comrade , the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) on securing and lead this debate . she start with some very hard truth that have to be hear , include the simple fact that we would not be debate this subject today if the Government have allocate their own time to discuss the report and how we go forward , which be exactly what should have happen . I be get good at the game of anticipate what be in the Government ' s prepared text . we will no doubt be tell that the pension change be make for the great cause of equality — that if we punish people equally , it be a great stride towards equality . the simple and brutal dynamic be , however , that woman bear in the 1950 have be discriminate against throughout their life . it start with grow up and not have a cheque book or be able to hire a television unless they have the express permission of their father or husband . there be the expectation that if they fall pregnant , they be to leave their employment and give up their career to raise child . as my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) say , if they be divorce , the expectation of the financial settlement be that their pensionable right would be there at the age of 60 . the discrimination against 1950 - bear woman have be go on for a long time . to say to those woman with very little notice , as if it be an episode of " who want to be a Millionaire ? " , " we don ' t want to give you that . we want you to work an additional six year in the name of equality , " be frankly ludicrous . we need to recognise the injustice and discrimination that many 1950 - bear woman suffer throughout their life . we also need to recognise that this change be not about some magical equality formula ; it be to make woman work long . we need to have a serious debate about the huge difference between someone ' s work age expectancy and their life expectancy , because they be two entirely different thing , particularly for woman whose work involve hugely physical task , as in the care sector and the NHS . my hon . friend be make an important point . I want to go back to the Cridland report ; I remember meet Cridland at the time . on the issue of healthy life expectancy , to be tell that the DWP do not hold such information because that be the responsibility of the Department of Health and Social Care show the dysfunctionality and the lack of concern about people ' s healthy life . my right hon . friend be right . I have always be tell that there be join - up Government here — [ interruption . ] well , I be often tell that by member on the Government Benches , but all too often , hon . member on the Opposition Benches meet that with the surprised and quizzical look that I just get from the hon . member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) on the Labour Front Bench when I say that . my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) be correct that we need to consider such thing in future , because someone , particularly a woman , who work in a physical environment such as the care sector , the NHS or any other line of work , will not be able to work until they be 66 . that be a brutal dynamic . several hon . member , include my good friend the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber , mention the former Pensions Minister who rise to his foot in the great Westminster Hall debate that be pack to the rafter and say that one of the solution be for woman to apply for an apprenticeship in a new phase of the economy . those be the most ludicrous comment that I have hear — I have hear many ludicrous comment in my time in this place , but that be no . 1 on the list . I pay tribute to the WASPI campaigner in Glasgow and Lanarkshire , particularly the great Kathy McDonald and Rosie Dickson , who have campaign rigorously and vigorously over the last few year , include after the 2019 election , when many people think that this issue be finish and be not get anywhere . those WASPI campaigner — the 1950 - bear woman who have campaign consistently on this issue for the last five year in particular — should be commend in this House . this Parliament have issue to grapple with . next week we will discuss the report on infected blood ; we will have a piece of legislation — rightly so — for the postmaster ; and we have the issue before we . I agree with everyone who have speak so far that we need to conclude this matter before the summer recess , so that we can all say , as a Parliament , that we know and accept the cost . then we can debate matter go forward . I be very clear about justice for the 1950 - bear woman , the infected blood community and the postmaster . those group should not be blame for a lack of investment in public infrastructure . the country badly need those thing , and we should not use those wonderful campaigner as an excuse . I mention the great Rosie Dickson . she contact I early with a quote from one of my favourite political philosopher , the great Jimmy Reid , who hail from Govan , in my Glasgow South West constituency . he say : " from the very depth of my being , I challenge the right of any man or any group of man , in business or in government , to tell a fellow human being that he or she be expendable . " the view of many 1950 - bear woman be that this Government have view they as expendable . I want to send a clear message to the House on their behalf , as many of we have today , that they be not expendable . they deserve justice . if justice be delay , the price tag will go up ; I hope the Government recognise that . I hope the Ministers will confirm today that we will see action and justice for those wonderful , brave 1950 - bear woman . I have live this campaign for about 10 year , as have a number of other hon . member . today , we have hear unanimity from speaker from all political party across the House . unless we can get some action quickly , I despair of what parliamentary procedure be leave to we . I do not want to go back to swinge the Mace about again , but something need to happen fairly quickly because anger be build up , in the Chamber , outside and among the WASPI woman . I do not share the view of some hon . member about the equalisation of pension . I support the equalisation of pension , but not on the basis of the retirement age for woman increase . I think we be enter a period when we would be reduce the age that man have to work until , so we would equalise pension that way . the argument then be about whether the economy could afford it . the reason I be try to equalise pension by reduce man ' s working age be largely for working - class people . in many of our city , the difference between the life expectancy of the rich and the poor be something like 20 year . we be tell then that life expectancy would be continuously improve , but it have stagnate . many people do not work in a sedentary role , so as we increase the retirement age — it be now go up to 68 and beyond — they will work until they drop . that be not acceptable , particularly in the economy that we have , where we could redistribute wealth , low people ' s retirement age and give they a decent pension . I be involve in design the scheme propose in 2019 . we commission Lord Bryn Davies , who be one of the most respected pension expert in the country , and work for two year with WASPI and the different group to design the scheme . my commentary on the proposal by the ombudsman reflect some of the work that be do . we look at a straightforward scheme . go into individual case would take decade , to be frank , so we look at a flat - rate scheme for everybody , base on an average loss of £ 100 a week . that result in an average payment of £ 15 , 000 , which be a lot of money . we cost it at more than £ 50 billion , which seem a lot of money at the time , but it be less than a third of what the Government save by increase the pension age for these woman . in addition , we look at different option : should we pay it over a four or five - year period and reduce the cost to £ 12 billion a year . when I say during the debate that this be a large amount of money , somebody say that we have just pay out £ 500 billion to bail out the bank when they have cripple the economy . then we go into 2020 and covid hit we . the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) make some excellent point , but he ask we how we could fund decent pension and the requisite compensation . I look up the figure . as a percentage of gdp , the UK spend 5 . 7 % on state pension and pension benefit . in Italy , the figure be 16 % . in France , it be 13 . 9 % . in Denmark , it be 10 . 1 % . the OECD average be 8 . 2 % . by any measure , we be mile adrift . I also look at what have be provide in tax cut to some of the wealthy in our country since 2010 . it be £ 100 billion . I look at how much have be give in corporate welfare benefit , and , again , it be £ 100 billion . therefore , although it sound like a lot of money at the time , in the context of fairness , it be the right amount . that be why the ombudsman ' s offer of between £ 3 , 000 and £ 10 , 000 be derisory ; it have to be more than that . the reason for have a flat - rate compensation scheme be for ease of administration , and I would recommend that wholeheartedly . we have hear today about the individual hardship that people have endure . we can not allow that to go on any far , which be why this scheme must be expedite . the ombudsman report and be accountable to the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , on which I serve . we have consider each of the report as they have come forward . we be critical about the delay that be take place , so we impress on the ombudsman the urgency of the situation . when we get the report back , we find that it have at least accept that there have be an injustice and that there need to be a compensation scheme . we wait with bated breath for the Secretary of State to announce at least the timescale and the timetable for that compensation scheme , but all we hear be that the Government would go away and consider it . that be week ago . PACAC write to the Secretary of State and ask for a timetable , stress the urgency of the matter , because , exactly as member have say , people be die . some people can not wait , because they either will literally not be here any more , or they be live in poverty and hardship . we receive a reply this week . the Secretary of State say that he would be bring forward a statement " in due course " . what that mean be nothing ; it be meaningless . as a Committee , we have agree to write again to say that that be unacceptable and that we need a clear timetable in which this matter will be address and proposal bring forward that we can vote on and , if necessary , amend in this House . if this Parliament be sovereign and the Government be accountable to this House , I believe that there be a majority , an overwhelming majority , of member who will vote for a compensation scheme that be readily accessible , and also at a level that reflect the hardship that people have suffer and the scale that most member would want to see . as we go into a general election , the issue will not go away . the WASPI woman and their campaign will not go away . People have express admiration for that campaign , which be not just impressive ; it be terrify . unless a proposal be bring forward , it will become an election issue . I think people ' s vote will stand or fall in many constituency on the basis of the decision come out of all the political party . voter will , however , blame the Government the most , because there be an opportunity now , as other have say , to make a statement by the recess with a timetable for implementation . we could almost certainly agree the funding . we look at how to raise the fund . some could be borrow , but the Government normally have contingency for legal liability . this be a legal liability . we have the opportunity to act now , and I urge the Government to wake up and listen to what the whole House be say . if today ' s response be not satisfactory , we will be back next week , and if necessary every day until the recess until we get some sense out of the Government . it be a pleasure , as ever , to follow another expert speech from the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . I commend my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) for secure the debate , and my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) for take forward his Bill . both be real WASPI champion , and they make a fierce campaigning duo on the Front Bench . the state pension be rely upon by more than 12 million of our citizen , and certainty about when they will be able to claim it be pivotal for many more who be plan retirement and make huge decision base on that date . we now know that when change to pension impact 1950s - bear woman be be implement , those change be not communicate properly . many receive no direct communication at all . other find out what be to happen too late , have already make major decision that they would not have make have they know the change that be ahead . communicate change to the state pension must be do well in advance , and use all mean possible . that do not happen with the WASPI woman . that be the nub of what the ombudsman find , and it be what the Government have to acknowledge . as the ombudsman say , an apology be due and compensation be owe . Parliament have be ask to take the lead on this , and so the first and most important point that member have be make unanimously be that the Government must hurry up and deliver . it have already be a long and arduous road to justice for the WASPI woman . it have take far too long , and as have be note , tragically too many will not get to the end of that road with we . once again , I pay tribute to my constituent June Miller , a key figure in establish our Cumbernauld WASPI group . it be an honour to work alongside she and the local team as they be establish their campaign group , host public meeting and run WASPI surgery . June march outside Parliament with her WASPI colleague from across the UK in October 2018 . she make the case forcefully , eloquently and patiently — typical of the WASPI campaign . it be heartbreake that June be one of more than 280 , 000 WASPI woman to have die during the lifetime of the campaign . that be why the most important message that we be convey today be that the Government must move swiftly . the Work and Pensions Committee be absolutely right : let we have proposal before the summer , and as have be say a couple of time , those proposal must be amenable to amendment by mps . it be Parliament specifically that have be task with this , not just Government Ministers . as other have say , there be no excuse . the Government should have see this come month and year ago . the big point of contention be clearly the level of compensation . while the ombudsman speak of level 4 compensation , most of we know that that reflect only the handful of case that the PHSO look at , and almost certainly not the range of experience face by the WASPI woman as a whole . my view be that such a level of compensation feel significantly understate , and be not a fair reflection of the impact that the maladministration have on many of my constituent . I know that lot of hon . member feel the same way . I therefore join other in commend the work of the all - party parliamentary group , which have argue that fair compensation mean level 6 compensation , because of the " profound , devastating or irreversible impact " that the change have . the point that that go way beyond a financial impact , and cause " extraordinary emotional , physical and psychological distress " be consistent with the experience of WASPI woman in Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East . I also think that there be considerable merit in a system that allow for high payment for those who suffer the short notice and face the long delay until their state pension age . there will be WASPI case that have not be examine by the ombudsman where compensation for direct financial loss be absolutely appropriate , but again , speed be important . a general payment for lack of notice should not be delay , but thereafter I do not see why claim for additional award for direct loss could not also be proceed with and consider . in that , there would be a parallel with the Windrush scheme , where concern about the slowness of decision making lead to pressure from the Home Affairs Committee for provisional or interim payment to claimant , which thankfully be implement . it be possible to have speedy payment for all and thereafter to go on and have detailed consideration of individual claimant . another , perhaps even more important , lesson from Windrush that I do not think have be mention in this debate be that surely it would be wise for the compensation scheme to be run independently of the DWP , and preferably independently of Government altogether . that be surely sensible if people be to have faith in it , particularly when the Department be prove so reluctant even to recognise that it have do anything wrong . the perception of a lack of independence certainly hinder the Windrush compensation scheme and undermined people ' s confidence in come forward to claim from it . we should learn a lesson from that . finally , on another day we will need to come back to the question of why it have take so long to get here . I do not mean any of this as a criticism of the ombudsman or its staff ; it be more to do with the resource available to they and the parameter within which they have to work . however , whether with WASPI , Windrush , Horizon , infect blood or any other recent scandal , time and again the mechanism for put right injustice and Government maladministration seem to have be slow , and sometimes even more of a hindrance than a help . we need to revisit and overhaul how such failing be examine and remedied . as we have hear , justice delay be justice deny , and that have certainly be the case for too many WASPI woman . in conclusion , our constituent be not ask for the earth — they never have be . they be quite realistic about what can and can not be do , and now they have the backing of the ombudsman . the Government need to recognise , to apologise and to compensate , and more than anything they need to do so urgently . it be a pleasure to speak today on behalf of the WASPI woman . every right hon . and hon . member who have speak in this debate have do so with a heartfelt desire on behalf of their constituent , and I wish to do the same . a lot have be say , but I want to offer a Northern Ireland perspective in the debate . it unite the voice of those in this chamber when we speak on behalf of all our constituent within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . in Northern Ireland there be some 77 , 000 waspi woman — lady who deserve to have their pension but have be deny it . tragically , many have pass away . in my Strangford constituency we have approximately 5 , 000 who should qualify as WASPI woman . although I be the only Northern Ireland MP in the Chamber now , I know that many of my colleague from other party have speak on this issue . I have a well - attend debate on 12 March ; it be unfortunate that in that debate member only have about three minute . in today ' s debate at least member have have at least 10 or perhaps even 15 minute , depend on when they come in . I ask a question on the same issue on 25 March in this Chamber and again on 2 May . this debate be vital , but — and I say this almost as a question — be it necessary ? hon . member will say , " what do you mean , be it necessary ? that ' s almost a contradiction . " but it be not . the debate be not necessary : the problem be crystal clear and undisputed , at least by every person who have speak . that be the case , we should recognise this and grant the compensation in a timely manner . that be what the debate be about . that be what we be ask for , and everyone from all political party be unite on that . we have the ombudsman ' s report . why , then , do we need to debate this issue again today , if the problem and the solution be clear and expect ? that be the way I see it . I congratulate the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) , as I often do , on set the scene ; I know this issue have be a passion of hers in this House . I also congratulate the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , who will sum up for the SNP at the end of the debate , on his Bill , which I have sign , along with other . the Government could grasp that Bill , push it through and have it all do by July . I also do not know until this debate , when the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) speak , that he and the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , who be not in his place , have a Bill or a process ready to bring forward . would it be onerous or unrighteous of I to say that perhaps that be something that could be use as a text to move it forward ? right hon . and hon . member have bring lot of idea forward . I say this with great respect to the Minister , who be an honest man and a gentleman , and who do his job well : the Government be drag their heel . as we have say on multiple occasion , each day that pass mean that another lady have be wrong . my constituent and other be miss out not simply on justice — that be reason enough — but on the quality of life that should have be theirs . party across the Chamber have come together to reiterate that , but the power for change — and the reason change be not come forward — lie with the Government . that be the way I see it . on the many occasion I have speak about the WASPI lady , I have give the example of a constituent of mine who be a school cleaner — everybody ' s constituency have school cleaner like she . that lady clean the school toilet until she be 60 , with arthritis and pain . she spend most of her time on her knee . it be always good to spend time on your knee , as long as it be in prayer , but that lady spend her time on her knee on a floor with cold tile , and she end up with arthritis and pain . that be the issue . she focus on the end date when she could stop put herself in pain and start enjoy her retirement without have to worry about turn her heating on because she could rely on her pension . that lady never have a sick day in 30 year — boy , what a record ! she turn up every day for 30 year to clean the toilet at the school . she deserve credit for that . we know that lady ' s generation well . there be no shame in it , but she feel shame about take benefit , and she work hard for the entitlement to a well - earn pension , which she think she be get . that pension be about nine month or a year ahead of she , when suddenly it turn out to be six year ahead of she . what — really ? there need to be action . that be do to she without so much as a by your leave or a financial plan . I hear people say , " well , they know about the plan , " but many of my WASPI woman do not know at all . I can not remember which Member say that 60 % of people do not know about their financial option . my constituent ' s option be to continue work on her knee , scrub , with tear in her eye and in pain , which mean that she have to apply for sick pay . this government do that to she — and I say that with respect to the Minister . that be the reason why it happen . the ombudsman say that it be not right to do that to my constituent , and that we should compensate that honourable lady and the 5 , 000 other WASPI woman in my constituency , as well as all those across this great United Kingdom . we be no far forward in give she that entitlement . meanwhile , those extra year of hard labour have take their toll physically and emotionally . I genuinely have no word to say to that lady other than : " I be sorry . I continually ask for compensation for you and the other . I be sorry that the Government get it wrong . and I be sorry that it still be not rectify . " I do not want to heap coal of fire upon the shoulder or the head of the Minister , but the responsibility for this lie with the Government . my word to the Government be clear and direct , and I have plenty of they , but they can all be sum up in a few word : do the right thing , and do it now . that be my request . the Government know their obligation , understand their duty , and accept the rationale behind that , so all we need now be the action to make this happen . we have see how quickly compensation can be sort , so why be we in this position where we be no far forward and do the right thing seem not to be a priority ? it need to be a priority — it need to be a priority today , follow this debate . it need to be a priority before the summer recess , whenever that come . that be the target date that I be ask the Minister to aim for , because we need to give hope to our constituent and those WASPI woman who have resolutely , courageously , and in many case physically , withstand the test of time . I believe that compensation should be grant in the form of a lump sum to help pay off any outstanding loan or debt , and there should then be an enhanced payment for a clear and set period of time . we have hear story today of people who make their plan on the ground of the pension plan that they have , only to find out that they have be disempowere , and all the plan they have make have to be scrap . they lose their house , their job and their health . what be we do to help those people ? the hon . Gentleman be make a sensitive and excellent speech . do he agree that this be not only about the loss of a pension from the age of 60 , the fact that people have not be able to plan and so forth ? for many woman , their occupational pension will have be tie to the date of their retirement or their state pension — it vary a lot , depend on what the pension scheme be . some woman have lose thousand upon thousand of pound as a result of this decision . I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention . the occupational pension be another factor ; it be incorporate in the plan that these people have make for their future . it be wonderful how you make a plan for the future and then the Government scupper it on you ! all of a sudden , these lady have find themselves in difficult circumstance , so I believe it be necessary to have a compensation scheme in place to help all of those lady . I will conclude with one more comment , ever mindful of the time limit that we all indicate we would keep to . I understand the magnitude of such a scheme , but we be able to get support quickly to household across the UK for cost of living and energy payment — something that I commend the Government on . that can be do on many occasion ; we just need the commitment to make it happen . I know that the Government have the ability and the capacity to roll out all these scheme , so along with almost every other colleague in this House today , I sincerely ask that we prioritise find a compensation formula and roll it out . these woman , our constituent — brave , courageous woman — deserve no less , and we must ensure that we give they no less . I call the SNP spokesman . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . like everybody else , I commend my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) for secure this debate , and for all the work she have do in speak up for 3 . 8 million affected woman for all these year . I also commend all the other member who have speak in today ' s debate ; there have be powerful speech , and powerful but harrowing story of how various constituent have be affect by the increase in the state pension age for woman . there be a Back - Bench consensus today that the Government have drag their heel , that a response be now long overdue , and that compensation be due . we have also disprove the nonsense that woman should have know about the increase in their state pension age . financial adviser and lawyer do not even know : as my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) say , divorce be grant on the basis of woman access their pension at the age of 60 . some labour Back Benchers today have rightly criticise the Government for their lack of action and for their policy elsewhere , but then somehow bristle at SNP speaker call out the silence of their own Front Benchers . we be willing to work cross - party , but we also need pressure for action . if we do not call out what we think be wrongdoing , we be not do the right thing for the WASPI woman who we be all here to represent today . we would not be in this Chamber today , debate this issue as parliamentarian , if not for fantastic campaigner such as Ayrshire WASPI Group , Cunninghame WASPI Group , WASPI in my constituency , WASPI Scotland , and of course the wide WASPI organisation . I pay tribute to my constituent Ann Hammell , who bring the issue to my attention in my early period as an MP in 2015 . again , it be hearten to hear so many mp commend their own local campaigner . turn to the ombudsman ' s report , there be a few key aspect : the finding and confirmation of maladministration in the DWP , compensation to be pay , and government failure . I will explore each in turn . the ombudsman have not only confirm that it believe that the DWP be guilty of maladministration , but have express outright anger at the belligerence of the Department and , by default , this Tory Government . I welcome the robust comment of the ombudsman ' s chief executive , Rebecca Hilsenrath , who have state : " the UK ' s national Ombudsman have make a finding of failing by DWP in this case and have rule that the woman affect be owe compensation . DWP have clearly indicate that it will refuse to comply . this be unacceptable . " I agree with she . it beggar belief that , in 2024 , the Government be suddenly pretend that this ombudsman ' s report be a bolt out of the blue and very complex . it be three year since the ombudsman find that the DWP be guilty of maladministration because of its lack of communication about increase the state pension age . it be scandalous that the ombudsman be actually have to ask Parliament to find a way to create a mechanism to provide compensation for those affect . if the ombudsman do not trust the UK Government to do the right thing , I do not trust they either . unfortunately , at the moment I also do not trust the official Opposition , who have be too quiet on the report finding to date . that be why I have bring forward my private Member ' s Bill , the State Pension Age ( Compensation ) Bill , which set out a compensation framework . we need to remember that the Prime Minister be the Chancellor who boast about set up the furlough scheme in a couple of week for the covid lockdown . clearly , if there be a Government will , there be a way , so why do the Government not have the will to get on with a compensation scheme for the WASPI woman ? in the ombudsman ' s report , compensation be unfortunately set at just level 4 , which feel wrong . for the majority of the 3 . 8 million woman affect , it feel like a smack in the face . compensation of between £ 1 , 000 and £ 2 , 950 be an inadequate maximum payout . the WASPI APPG recommend level 6 for the worst affected , and my private Member ' s Bill take a similar approach . I have suggest a framework that follow the clear logic that those affect by the big increase in state pension age , while in effect have the short notice period , should receive the most compensation . as for the 2 . 5 million woman who have have to wait five year or more to access their pension , it would be absurd to award they just level 4 compensation of less than £ 3 , 000 . in my framework , they would be allocate compensation at PHSO level 6 , which be about £ 10 , 000 . those who have not have to wait quite as long , but who be still badly affect in some case , will get level 4 and 5 , with a minority on low level . I thank member from across the House who have sign my private Member ' s Bill . this subject have be debate in Parliament for nine year , and for over nine year these woman and their family have be fight for justice . it be tragic that , as have be repeat many time , the woman be die at a rate of 40 , 000 a year , or one WASPI woman every 13 minute , and they be not get the justice they deserve . this underline that it be critical that Parliament take action now . however , there have not even be a suggestion on the way forward from the official Opposition . they should be put proposal to the Government , and say what they would do if they be in government . if their solution be accept by the Government , they could then claim credit for get compensation over the line . instead , we have hear nothing from the opposition — zip — apart from weasel word about listen . I hope the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) , will change my mind and offer proposal during she sum up , but there be a bad example last week in the Scottish Parliament , when Labour mp sit on their hand when it come to vote for compensation for the WASPI woman . they have the temerity to get photograph take with the campaigner , and to tell they that they back they , but then they go into the Chamber in Holyrood , sit on their hand and actively abstain , which be disgraceful . as I say , I hope the shadow Minister will bring forward proposal , but I would like she and the Minister respond to the debate to consider the constituent ' story we have hear today , and a few of mine as well . Lynn be exhaust after work for 34 year in the NHS and agree to take early retirement at 55 , but she find out on her last day of work that it would be 11 year before she get the state pension , not the five year she anticipate . Nancy be widow at the age of 54 , while she be work part time , which be clearly traumatic emotionally and financially . she have suffer umpteen chronic health condition while care for her parent , but be force to take NHS bank work just to survive . Lesley , who have sometimes work three job to make end meet , be a carer for her partner when he have cancer , a carer for her dad when he have cancer , and have a period of travel to Southampton every weekend to visit her aunt — superwoman effort that would exhaust anybody . it be little wonder that she take early retirement age 56 , only to discover later that she have to wait six year long than she think to access her pension . do not dare tell those woman and other like they that they need to wait long for justice . these be woman who do not have maternity right back in the day . they be pay less than man , and be more likely to work part time , and their private pension be small , if they have they . in reality , pension age equalisation have far disadvantage those woman , especially as they be tell that to get a full pension , they have to pay extra NI contribution . it be time that the right thing be do , and that right thing be fair and fast compensation now . I call the shadow Minister . I , too , thank the Backbench Business Committee for make time for this important debate from the limited time that it have to allocate . I have listen carefully to every contribution . a number of member , include my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , the hon . member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) , for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) , and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , talk about the experience of woman who have be part of this campaign , or who describe to their mp what they have be through . some member , include my hon . friend the Members for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) , and for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , also mention the context of those experience , and the systematic sexism that woman have face . other Members describe the detail of the ombudsman ' s report , and the possibility for redress , include the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) , for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) , for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , and for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) , and my right hon . friend the Members for Knowsley ( Sir George Howarth ) , and for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , who chair the Work and Pensions Committee . we have have a thorough and extensive debate this afternoon . I recognise and pay tribute to the woman who have join we today , or who have watch the debate from afar . as I say , it have be a full discussion . the ombudsman ' s report be important and have serious lesson for the Government . it also relate the serious consequence for the woman who experience the event that it describe . the ombudsman have rightly say that it be for the Government to respond , and that Parliament should consider the report ' s finding . as we have hear , the Work and Pensions Committee have begin that process , and will hear from Ministers next week , I believe . I will follow those proceeding carefully . in March , the Secretary of State say in this Chamber that he would proceed " without undue delay " , and on Monday he say that he still require an appropriate amount of time to consider the ombudsman ' s conclusion . my first question be about time . for all the reason that member have set out , it would be helpful if the Minister set out a timescale , and tell we , crucially , what advice have be provide to the Government , and what analysis be under way in the Department . it would be helpful to know what the process be . in the absence of that further update from the Government , Labour ' s position remain the same as it be when the ombudsman ' s report be publish . we be all wait for the Government to respond , so I will not diverge from what my hon . friend and colleague the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) say six week ago . although I understand the political reason why the SNP want to put pressure on I , I be not the Minister , and I do not have access to the information and advice that the Government have . I therefore call on the Government to respond without delay . issue around change to the state pension have span multiple Parliaments , but I remind everybody that the moment that spark the woman against State Pension Inequality Campaign be the Pensions Act 2011 , in which the then Chancellor , George Osborne , decide to accelerate state pension age increase with very little notice — a time describe accurately by the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber . George Osborne ' s comment that that " probably save more money than anything else we ' ve do " make I angry at the time , as I imagine it anger many other woman . during that period , Labour table amendment that would have ensure that proper notice be give , so that woman could plan for their retirement . that would have go some way to deal with the problem . have the Government , even now , do an analysis of why they press ahead with the change , despite the clear consequence ? in any case , the ombudsman begin investigate how change to the state pension age be communicate in 2019 . that year , the High Court rule that the ombudsman could not recommend change to the state pension itself , or the reimbursement of lost pension , because those issue have be decide on by Parliament , as many member have mention . the ombudsman ' s report state that internal research from DWP in 2004 find that about 40 % of the woman affect know about the change to the state pension age . be that still the Government ' s assessment , now that the report have be publish , or be they look for other evidence ? what be their assessment of the total number of woman who would receive compensation under the different option put forward by the ombudsman ? how many of they be the poor pensioner , and how many of they be on pension credit ? how many of those affect have already retire or sadly pass away ? give that the Government know , as member have describe , that there be problem communicate the change to the state pension age , I wonder about that moment in 2011 , and precisely what advice be provide to Ministers at the time . let we think about the principle here . the Government be commit to provide 10 year ' notice of future change to the state pension age . in 2015 , the Pensions Commission find that that should be 15 year ' notice . it be important for the Government to state why there be that difference . we all want a result of this debate to be a guarantee that information about any future change to the state pension age will be timely and helpful for the individual affect . we have problem with the pension dashboard . what be go on with pension information ? crucially , will the response to the ombudsman ' s report , when it come , contain a list of the lesson that the Department be learn , and measure that it be put in place ? the ombudsman take the rare decision to ask Parliament to intervene on this issue because it have doubt , as many member have describe , about whether the Department would provide a remedy . in the light of those concern , and to aid Parliament with its work , I ask again , as we do previously , for the Government to commit to lay out all relevant information , and place it in the Library . I have some experience of deal with historical injustice , and I must impress on the Minister that my experience from deal with the Hillsborough disaster be that open access to the evidence be extremely important . I hope that , in the spirit of the Hillsborough law , the Government will come forward and put that information before we , so that we can see it . I look forward to hear what the Minister have to say . I do not imagine that we will get a response today to the ombudsman ' s report , but will he at least set out the timetable for a response , because we can not move on until we have that ? I hope that the woman affect by all these change — include those change expedite in 2011 — who be bear just after the second world war can soon hear the Government ' s response . as many have mention , they be bear long before a woman ' s place at work , and woman ' s full right to their own earning and pension , be secure . this place have always be slow when it come to woman ' s right . in 1951 , more than 30 year after woman could first come here , just 17 of 650 mp be woman , yet woman of that generation build the platform that we all stand on . they fight to change thing for woman , and the least they deserve be a response from the Government to the ombudsman ' s report . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for find the time to host the debate . we have hear from member on both side of the House and from across the whole country , who have speak both eloquently and passionately on behalf of their constituent . I know that many in the Public Gallery , as well as those listen remotely , who will be take a close , scrutinise interest in this matter . I be always conscious that it be on behalf of those woman that we be deliberate . I pay tribute to those in my own constituency who have campaign long and hard and meet I down the year , even in recent week . I readily acknowledge the strength of feeling on both side of the House . the Government be listen . what colleague have have to say during the debate , which I have hear , will be take fully into consideration . in the oral statement make to the House on 25 March , the Secretary of State explain that the ombudsman ' s report be complex , with the event that it consider span about 30 year . he commit to provide an " update to the House once we have consider the report ' s finding . " — [ Official Report , 25 March 2024 ; Vol . 747 , c . 1281 . ] I understand the wide interest in this matter across the Chamber . we be all unite in want a resolution . the ombudsman ' s investigation have take five year and produce a substantial report that require careful and consider scrutiny . it be only right that we should give it that scrutiny . the Government be give full and proper consideration to the ombudsman ' s report , and that work be ongoing . the issue to be decide be significant and complex and require detailed understanding and deliberation . I would like to remind the House of the Government ' s strong track record of support pensioner . in 2024 - 25 , we will spend more than £ 167 billion on benefit for pensioner . that be 6 % of GDP and include spend on the state pension , which be forecast to be about £ 138 billion in 2024 - 25 . we be honour the triple lock , have increase the basic and new state pension by 8 . 5 % in April . in 2024 - 25 , the full yearly amount of the basic state pension will be £ 3 , 700 high in cash term than it be in 2010 . we now have 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolute poverty after housing cost . I be grateful to the Minister for share those figure . I be aware that people be a bit sceptical about statistic — someone say in the Select Committee the other day that 83 . 6 % of all statistic be make up ; I be not sure if that be true . can I just advise the Minister of this ? we have the poor pensioner in Europe . just 5 . 7 % of our UK gdp be spend on state pension and pension benefit , compare with 16 % in Italy , 13 . 9 % in France , 11 . 9 % in Spain , and an OECD average of 8 . 2 % . his suggestion that our pensioner be generously provide for do not stand up to scrutiny . I be grateful for that contribution . I hear the hon . Gentleman make those comment in his speech as well . I be try to remember the precise figure , but I can not , so I will write to he . more generally — this point be often make to I by pension expert — the international number be not directly comparable because each welfare system be entirely different , particularly in the public - private split in how pension system be fund . to say that one percentage be generous while another percentage be not generous be not quite the point . I shall write to he none the less , because I think that he will find the fine print useful for his future contribution . the Minister say that the Government be to give the ombudsman ' s report serious consideration before they decide what to do . how long do he think that process will take ? if I may , I will answer that in a moment , because I will now turn back to the report . in lay the report before Parliament , the ombudsman bring matter to the House ' s attention , make it clear that Parliament have a role in respond to the report . the Government intend to engage fully and constructively with Parliament . I view this debate as a crucial part of that process . I remind the House about what the ombudsman ' s report say — and indeed do not say . the ombudsman have look not at the decision to equalise the state pension age but rather at how that decision be communicate by the DWP . that be important to understand , as the motion call on the Government to " deliver prompt compensation to woman bear in the 1950 who have their State Pension age raise . " importantly , the ombudsman ' s report hinge on the Department ' s decision over a narrow period between 2005 and 2007 , and their effect on individual notification . the ombudsman have not find that woman have directly lose out financially as a result DWP action . the report state : " we do not find that it " — the DWP ' s communication — " result in they suffer direct financial loss . " the final report do not say that all woman bear in the 1950 will have be adversely impact , as many woman be aware that the state pension age have change . the stage 1 report find that between 1995 and 2004 , the DWP ' s communication of change to the state pension age reflect the standard that the ombudsman would expect it to meet . that report also confirm that accurate information about change to the state pension age be publicly available in leaflet , through the DWP pension education campaign and DWP agency and on its website . however , when consider the Department ' s action between August 2005 and December 2007 , the ombudsman come to the view that they result in 1950 - bear woman receive individual notice later than they might have do have different decision be make . I welcome the wide - range contribution from member on behalf of their constituent . the ombudsman clearly say that the DWP be guilty of maladministration during the period of 2005 to 2007 . do the Minister accept the finding that the DWP be guilty of maladministration , and should put its hand up to that ? I recognise that there will be an appetite from some Opposition Members for the Government to respond item by item to different part of the ombudsman ' s report , but the Government wish to respond in full when they have reach a conclusion from their deliberation . I will not go down the path that the hon . Gentleman seek to take I along . some of the detailed commentary from Members today illustrate the interlock consideration at play , depend on how each Member of Parliament respond to the report . the fact that so many have speak today demonstrate the importance of this issue . many parliamentary activity be worth note to understand how they fit in . the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , mention the evidence session hold last week and the recommendation that he have make to the Department , which I read after he mention it , so I have only just see it . late last month I be able to meet the hon . member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) and my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , the chair and co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group , to discuss our initial view of the report and what step they intend to pursue to take further evidence . I be look forward to see what they have to say . I have note the evidence give last week to the Select Committee . I also take careful note of what occur in the Scottish Parliament . the many view express so far provide valuable input to the ongoing deliberation . let I come to the question from the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) about the write answer she receive . I will take my glass off to read this , because the print be very small and not clear : in November 2023 , alongside other interested party , the DWP receive a copy of the PHSO ' s revise provisional view on injustice , which be stage two of the inquiry , and remedy , which be stage three , for comment . the DWP respond with its comment in January 2024 . the Department be notify by the PHSO on 19 March that the final report would be receive on 21 March 2024 , at a meeting between the permanent secretary and the ombudsman . I note that the hon . Lady ' s write question be about the final report as oppose to the preliminary report . it be about the draft report , but I be grateful for that clarity . member raise question about change to the state pension age . as I say , the ombudsman ' s report be clear that it can not consider the impact of change in the law on state pension age . the change be set out in primary legislation and , as such , be agree by Parliament . the announcement in 1993 of the equalisation of the state pension age address a long - stand inequality between man and woman . the change be also about maintain the right balance between the sustainability of the state pension , fairness between generation and ensure a dignified retirement . change to the state pension age be make in a series of act by successive government from 1995 onwards , follow public consultation and extensive debate in both Houses of Parliament . from the 1940 until April 2010 , the state pension age be 60 for woman and 65 for man . the decision to equalise the state pension age for man and woman date back to 1995 . it be right to address a long - stand inequality between man ' s and woman ' s state pension age . the report of the Pensions Commission in 2005 recommend that the state pension age should increase in a stage way to 68 in the three decade follow the completion of equalisation in 2020 . a broad consensus on that be achieve largely due to the commission ' s evidence base , which show that state pension age should follow increase in life expectancy to help ensure the affordability and sustainability of the state pension . legislation pass in 2007 introduce a series of increase , start with a state pension age of 66 between 2024 and 2026 , and end with an increase to 68 between 2044 and 2046 . as have be observe , the Pensions Act 2011 accelerate the equalisation of woman ' s state pension age by 18 month and bring forward the increase in man ' s and woman ' s state pension age to 66 by five and a half year , relative to the previous timetable . the change in the 2011 Act occur follow a public call for evidence and extensive debate in Parliament . during the passage of the Act , Parliament legislate for a concession worth £ 1 . 1 billion . the concession reduce the propose increase in state pension age for more than 450 , 000 man and woman , and mean that no woman see their state pension age change by more than 18 month relative to the timetable set by the Pensions Act 1995 . will the Minister give way ? sorry , I win ' t . during the course of the ombudsman ' s investigation , state pension age change be consider by the court . in 2019 and 2020 , the High Court and Court of Appeal respectively find no fault with the action of DWP . the court make clear that under successive government date back to 1995 , the action take be entirely lawful and do not discriminate on any ground . during those proceeding , the Court of Appeal hold that the High Court be entitle to conclude as a fact that there have be " adequate and reasonable notification give by the publicity campaign implement by the Department over a number of year " . we recognise the importance of provide information in good time about the state pension age to help individual to plan for their retirement . since 1995 , the Government have use a range of method to inform people about the increase in state pension age , include the provision of detailed and personalised information . the method have include leaflet explain the legislative change , pension education campaign , press advertising and direct mailing exercise to million of people . People have be able to request personalised state pension information since the 1980 . we do not know the timing of the general election — possibly November , but maybe later — but it be likely that we will have only about 10 sitting week between now and a general election . can I impress on the Minister to take back to his fellow Ministers that we need the proposal rapidly in those 10 week , and certainly before recess , if we be to get a viable scheme through Parliament ? I be happy to confirm that I will take that message back . I have hear it clearly today . I understand the point about the Work and Pensions Committee ' s finding , too . the right hon . Gentleman will have hear the Secretary of State — and I , in oral question on Monday — say that we wish to have no undue delay . that remain the case . I recognise that people be frustrate by that phrase , but it be an accurate phrase . we do not wish undue delay . as I keep say , it be a complex issue . it be not just a matter of tick a box . it need to be get right , and we understand all the ramification and option that be open to we . between April 2000 and February 2021 , the DWP provide more than 41 . 2 million personalise state pension statement , and it continue to do so . as well as issue letter to the 6 . 9 million woman and man bear in the 1950 notify they of the state pension age increase , the DWP send around 17 . 8 million automatic state pension forecast between 2003 and 2006 , which include a leaflet explain that the state pension age for woman be increase . as I have outline , the Government recognise the importance of this issue . the ombudsman report have be lay before Parliament , and we have be invite to take a view and engage with this issue . today be one part of that . we will listen to the view of the House with great seriousness . the report be currently be give active and extensive consideration within the Department , by I and by the Secretary of State . we will seek to provide a further update without , as I say , undue delay , and I hope to give the issue the airing that it deserve as soon as that be practically possible . let I end the debate by make a few observation . the motion garner unanimous support from Back - Bench speaker , which express the will of the House , but unfortunately the contribution from the Labour and Government Front Benches do not reflect that cross - party consensus . justice be too important to be deny for fear of the price tag . I remind the House that the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman conclude that ignore the finding of the report would create an unprecedented constitutional gap in the protection of the right of citizen who have be fail by a public body in respect of ensure access to justice . that constitutional gap present a danger to our very democracy . what we have see today be an apparent refusal from the Government Front Bench to accept the report ' s finding , while , disappointingly , the Labour Front Bench continue to refuse to make any commitment to the WASPI woman . that be why Labour Members of the Scottish Parliament be order to abstain on call for compensation last week . I note that the tone of the response from the Labour Front Bench to this crisis — for it be a crisis — be entirely different from the tone of Labour Front Benchers when they speak of the infected blood scandal and the Horizon calamity . it be disappointing that the UK Government ' s response take we no far forward , and it be disappointing that the same apply to the Labour Front Bench . we have hear about consider , engage , reflect ; what we have not hear about be any action , or any timeframe for action . it seem that the cosy , " do nothing " consensus between the Front Benches continue , which mean that the campaign for justice for WASPI woman — despite be vindicate by the ombudsman — must also continue . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note the finding of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman report on Women ' s State Pension age ; and call on the Government to deliver prompt compensation to woman bear in the 1950 who have their State Pension age raise . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of those in my constituency who have be affect by the contaminated blood scandal , include my constituent Neil Brown , who have sadly die while wait for justice . I want to pay tribute to all campaigner , include , of course , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of the City of Chester , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait for too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002990 ] I also rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent , which call for the implementation of the recommendation of the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry — in particular , the payment of interim compensation to those who have be infect and affect , whose family have suffer enough . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Oldham East and Saddleworth , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait for too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002982 ] mineworker ' Pension Scheme Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) we have see many injustice debate in this House . just today , we have see the injustice of the WASPI woman . in recent week , we have speak about the infected blood scandal and , more recently , the Post Office scandal . tonight , we be go to debate another scandal : the mineworker ' pension scheme scandal . some 25 % of the United Kingdom be on top of old coalmine , so I have hope that 25 % of this Chamber would be full tonight , but it be not . maybe there be a few reason for that . the issue have be debate a lot in this place , both before and since I come into Parliament , so maybe certain mp be get a bit feed up of say the same old thing , but we will keep try . I start in the pit in the mid - 1980s . I go to work at Sutton colliery , in north Nottinghamshire , with my dad Paul Anderson . he be a rope fitter , and I go to work with he underground . I have a good time work with my dad and my friend at Sutton colliery , which be a family pit . it be a small coalmine with small coal seam and difficult condition . it be a family pit where brother work with their brother , dad and grandad . it be a proper community , but like all coalmine , there be tragedy underground . at Sutton colliery in 1957 , there be a methane explosion and , sadly , five man lose their life . I know some of the friend , family and descendant of the people who die . I then go on to Cresswell colliery , in north Derbyshire , to do my coalface training . it be another family pit where , again , man work with their son , and brother work with their brother , and it too be tinge with tragedy . in 1950 , there be a fire at Cresswell colliery and , sadly , 83 man and boy lose their life . the mine rescuer have to seal the pit off underground to save the colliery , so that it could produce coal again . they seal off some of the old working and leave the man inbye , because there be no chance of save they , but when they take the stop down just a few month later , the man be on the other side . some of they have scratch their name into the wall . it be terrible , and this sort of thing be hard to explain to people who have not work down a coalmine . it be a very tight - knit community , and people work in difficult condition . I have just over 10 year of work in awful condition , but my grandad Charlie have 45 year down the coalmine and finish up at New Hucknall colliery . it would have be 50 year , but he take a break between 1940 and 1945 , and go to fight Hitler . then he come back and go straight back down the pit the follow week . when he finish in the pit in 1979 , he get a tankard , a certificate , 500 quid and a meagre pension — imagine that . as miner , we know about the risk underground when we go down the pit every day . since mining start in this country in the 1600 , over 160 , 000 man , woman and child have die in the coalmine , so we know the risk . we know there be always a chance that something might happen , but these be the risk we take . the miner take these risk for simple reason : to earn a wage , put food on the table and make sure their kid be well dressed . in 1994 , when I be still work in the pit , they be privatised . in my area , it be RJ Budge Mining that take over the pit . at that time , a big bone of contention be what be go to happen with the MPS , or the mineworker ' pension scheme . it be probably one of the rich pension scheme in the world at that time , and be worth hundred of million , if not billion , in today ' s money . it be always accept that there would be a 70 : 30 split in favour of the miner . when the then Government sit around the table with the trustee to make an offer to guarantee the mineworker ' pension scheme , we automatically surmise that there would be a 70 : 30 split , which would have be fair . but at the last minute , it end up be — and depend on who you talk to , whether it be the trustee at the time or the mining organisation involve in campaigning , nobody can get to the bottom of it — a " take it or leave it " 50 : 50 deal . the Government at the time never undertake a proper financial risk assessment or have actuarial advice on the split . we can never get to the bottom of that — it be a simple " take it or leave it . " when I be work at the pit with my friend , we never really have a say in this . I can not remember any man I work with underground be happy with the 50 : 50 split , because we know how rich the pension fund be . thirty year on from 1994 , successive Labour and conservative Governments have not pay a single penny into the pension scheme , which be a cash cow . they have take £ 4 . 8 billion out of the scheme . some mining group say the sum be near to £ 10 billion , but I will take the figure I have here . in just the last three year , the Government have take more than £ 400 million out of the surplus , which be a lot of money . this be miner ' money . in effect , the Treasury ' s guarantee be an insurance scheme . it guarantee to make up the shortfall and pay the bonus , and so on , if there be not a surplus , but I can not think of any insurance scheme anywhere in this country , or the world , that have never have to pay out . in 30 year , not a penny have come from the Treasury or the taxpayer to top up the mineworker ' pension scheme . I think that be a bit of a scandal , and so do my mining community . I think we all agree . we have a three - hour debate in this Chamber last Thursday , in which over 30 member contribute , and I think there be unanimity on the unfairness and injustice of the surplus - share arrangement . when the hon . Gentleman be deputy chairman of the Conservative party , the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , visit the coalfield in Mansfield and give certain undertaking and assurance to reform the surplus - share arrangement so that the miner would get their money back . as a former deputy chairman of the Conservative party , be the hon . Gentleman aware of any discussion after the 2019 general election on implement those promise ? when I be deputy chairman of the Conservative party , and even before that , I speak to the current Prime Minister , who be then Chancellor of the Exchequer , and , to be fair , he look into the scheme and the surplus arrangement . one discussion at the time be that perhaps the whole pension scheme could be give back to the miner , with the Government not act as a guarantor at all . I would have hope that we could come together a little in this debate and not try to score political point . I be here for my community of mineworker , for my dad , for my brother - in - law and for the people of Ashfield who toil underground . I will not get involve in silly , petty politic in this debate . the 1980 and ' 90 be difficult time for the mining community . pit be close , people be lose their job and man be out of work , and we see the injustice of this surplus arrangement with the Government of the day . there be other people try to rip off the miner . these be the spivs , the financial adviser , who rock up in their new Rovers . they be call in at miner ' welfare club and work man ' s club , knock on door and turn up . these man in shiny suit have never do a day ' s work in their life , and they be con the miner — my dad be one of they — by tell they that the mineworker ' pension be no good and be not make money . the miner transfer their money to these private pension scheme , and they be rip off . fortunately , just a few year later , many of these miner , include my dad , be able to claim compensation against these shark and put their money back in the MPS , which be probably one of the good pension scheme in the world . we talk a lot in this place about level up and , back in 2019 , I stand on a manifesto of level up . to be fair to the Government , Ashfield have have lot of money , about £ 200 million . we have have two new school rebuild , nearly £ 100 million in future high street funding and town funding , and extra money for police and CCTV , for which I be incredibly grateful to the Government , but real levelling up put more money into people ' s pocket and let they decide how to spend it . I can not think of a fair way of level up than give these miner , their widow and their family a little more money in their pocket . I know what a great champion the hon . Gentleman have be for his community and the rest of Nottinghamshire , and indeed nationally , on this issue . I be in many of the meeting that he describe early , such as with the Prime Minister when he be Chancellor and with other Ministers . the hon . Gentleman be a miner in Manton in my constituency ; he have show I his lamp many time and tell I many story . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) I want to make a point about the split and the surplus . do the hon . Gentleman share my frustration about that ? at time we have believe that some real progress have be make , whether on the split or the surplus , and there have be a chance to renegotiate — to get some incremental progress to put some money back into the pocket of those widow and to make that change over time . we could have be in a well position now if not for those who really do not want to negotiate and who want all or nothing immediately . the hon . Gentleman make some reasonable point . to be fair , the guarantee scheme have work in that the Government have be able to take more risk with the pension fund and it have create a high yield . the problem that I have face as a Member of Parliament deal with certain group be that I can not get the group to agree on the good solution or the good way forward . that be incredibly frustrating . there be still a lot of bitterness , even 40 year on from the miner ' strike . I come from a family who be on strike — all my family be strike miner — but there be still a bitterness now when I get involve . when I meet some of the mining group , they say , " keep your nose out . we don ' t want scab get involve in our business , " because I come from Nottinghamshire . that be not the way forward . we have to have a sensible debate , like grown - up . thousand of ex - miner be die each year . the pension fund be probably worth £ 12 billion , £ 13 billion or £ 14 billion , so it be a massive pot of money . when the last miner die — I be 57 , so I be probably one of the last miner and one of the young ex - miner leave — all the money leave in the scheme will go to the Treasury . we could give the miner a much fair deal and a fair split , and we could carry out the recommendation of the 2021 Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee ' s report to give the miner that money , because it will not cost the Government anything . in 50 year , they will get a pension pot worth billion of pound . as I say , the way to level up in deprive area such as mine that have suffer job loss , have be deskille and have go through the mill over the past 30 or 40 year , be to give the miner and their family a bit more money . I feel incredibly proud to stand here and represent the people of Ashfield and the mining community of Ashfield — the widow and ex - miner , some of whom be friend I use to work down the pit with . all we want from the Government be a bit of justice . we be not ask for much ; we be ask for a bit more money for the miner and their family in this great country of our before the last miner die . I be incredibly grateful to speak in the debate , which be the second on miner ' pension in a week — we have a good debate about miner and mining community last week . I be grateful to the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , who speak passionately about his and his family ' s experience . he will know from his first - hand experience , which be share by many of my constituent , that mining be dirty and dangerous , but it be well respected . he be right to speak about how dangerous it be — we have several memorial across Barnsley to those man who go to work and do not come home . in Barnsley , 30 , 000 man work down the pit . our community be build on coal and it power a nation . it be 40 year since thousand of man be force to go out on strike to defend their industry — a battle that sadly they lose . it be simply not right that , decade later , they be still fight for their pension . in 2021 I be pleased to campaign for , and secure , the BEIS Committee report into the mineworker ' pension scheme . it be a cross - party report and it very clearly conclude that the Government should not be in the business of profit from miner ' pension . some £ 4 . 8 billion have be take by the Government to date . that have rise by £ 400 million since that report . the average miner be on a pension of just £ 84 a week , and widow be on a lot less . I meet a man in my constituency a few week ago on £ 1 a week . I have raise this issue in this place dozen of time . I have meet with Ministers and shadow Ministers . I go to the Treasury a few week ago to make the case again . I could not be clear about my commitment to the issue . indeed , I will continue to advocate not just on miner ' pension but on miner ' health and support for our coalfield community more broadly . my constituency of Barnsley East be yet to receive any levelling - up funding . in 2006 , 280 , 000 miner be in the scheme . the Government financial risk to the scheme be in permanent decline , yet it be cost the same as it do 25 year ago . that deal be do without any actuarial advice , as the Government admit to I some year ago in answer to a write parliamentary question . I hold the last Adjournment debate on this subject in 2019 . in that debate , I speak about how 160 , 000 man claim a miner ' pension . today , that figure be sadly less than 125 , 000 . we need justice for the miner before it be too late . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , with whom I have work closely over many year . it be clear that his personal experience and long track record put he in the good position to continue to fight the good fight , on behalf of not just his constituent but people who work in this sector . I be strike by his willingness to engage across the political spectrum , find time for the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) to contribute . she have an impressive track record of raise the issue , have secure a BEIS debate and other debate respond to by former Ministers . while I be only freshly return as a Minister , in the whirlwind of a mere three week I have be lobby by many people on the subject , include my hon . friend the Members for Bolsover ( Mark Fletcher ) , for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) , for Bassetlaw ( Brendan Clarke - Smith ) and for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) , and the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) have be increase my parliamentary question response rate . I recognise the importance of the scheme , and the strong feeling on the different option that have be and could be consider . I thank the Minister for give way ; he be be very generous , which be completely in character . I do not think any of we want a pat on the back . what we want be the issue resolve . in common with the previous debate about the woman against State Pension Inequality Campaign , the issue be the age demographic . my poor mother be 88 . many miner and their widow be come to the end . we need to resolve this in the interest of justice , and the BEIS Committee ' s report from 27 April 2021 give we that opportunity . as I say , I recognise the strength of feeling and I want to set out the Government ' s position on where there be opportunity to look far . it be right that we acknowledge the hard work of coalminer over decade and their contribution to national prosperity , which be exactly what the hon . member for Ashfield do so well . since privatisation , the Government have recognise the need to support former coalfield area through initiative such as the Coalfield Regeneration Trust . over the past 25 year , successive government have invest over £ 1 billion in former coalfield area . the UK Government be commit to level up across the whole of the United Kingdom to ensure that no community be leave behind and invest in place that need it most , include former coalfield community . I again credit the hon . member for Ashfield on how hard he work to secure the significant levelling - up fund that have reach his constituency . I be grateful to the Minister for give way again — I do not mean to be a nuisance , I promise . it be all very well for Ashfield , which have have £ 200 million or £ 300 million . Easington have have nothing . my community of Horden , which bid for levelling - up funding , be in the top 1 % most deprived community in the country . I hope the Minister be not suggest that £ 4 . 8 billion of the miner ' money can legitimately be use by the Government for other purpose , such as regeneration in coalfield or other area . that be their money . if the reserve investment fund alone be redistribute , it would give they almost £ 900 a month directly in their pocket . I can confirm that the hon . member be never a nuisance , but , again , I would reflect on the ability to lobby and secure levelling - up fund , and those who do well be directly benefit their community . specifically , this involve a range of project , include the £ 20 million to deliver two capital regeneration project that will revitalise town centre , include in Ashfield . the Coal Authority have be work with public and private sector partner for a number of year to develop the use of heat in water contain in the former coal mining infrastructure as a resource for heat network and large space heating . current scheme be heat multiple home and business at discount of at least 5 % below prevail market rate for heat . the Coal Authority estimate that 25 % of property be locate on former coal mining area . mine water heat can offer a homegrown and sustainable source of heat , boost local economy and also create more local green job . the Government ' s commitment to mining community be also demonstrate through the continue guarantee give to the mineworker ' pension scheme . the scheme remain a significant undertaking . it have more than 130 , 000 member , pay pension at an annual cost of over £ 600 million and have asset in excess of £ 7 billion . the scheme be manage by the trustee ; the Government ' s role be as guarantor . my official meet the trustee to discuss the operation of the scheme regularly . when the scheme be set up in 1952 , member contribute no more than 20p per week , and benefit be relatively small . from 1975 , contribution and benefit be link to member ' salary and British Coal make up the difference . at privatisation , the Government take on the guarantor role previously play by British Coal . the scheme have a surplus in 1994 , and 50 % of this surplus be use to enhance member ' pension immediately — that be an interesting chronology . will the Minister inform the House when the Government stop pay into the scheme ? there be a substantial increase when superannuation come in in 1974 , match by British Coal . be it not correct that , after 1984 , the Government make no contribution to the contribution holiday ? the hon . member be passionate to speed ahead . I urge he to be a little more patient . we be explore all of these point , and I be get to they — fear not . the other 50 % be payable to the guarantor . the Government of the day agree to leave their share of surplus in the scheme as the investment reserve . this act as a buffer against a future deficit . the arrangement for share scheme surplus be agree between the trustee and the Government in their role as guarantor to the Mineworkers ' Pension Scheme in 1994 . at that time , all party believe the equal sharing of surplus to be a fair agreement . that predate all of we . the guarantee ensure that : a member ' s guarantee pension , include inflation increase , will always be pay ; and a member ' s total pension , include bonus pension , will not fall in cash term . the scheme have be a success and it be to the credit of the scheme ' s trustee that they have invest in such a way as to enable those return , and we know as politician that decision on pension and pension reserve be not always as successful as this . but it be the guarantee that make high return possible . without the guarantee , the trustee would have to invest far more cautiously so as to avoid lose money and risk be unable to meet scheme obligation . in a former role in the DWP , I have also be respond to debate where pension scheme have fail , and we can not lose sight of that . we have see this scenario with many other pension scheme . few equivalent scheme have be able to generate surplus and few still be able to use those surplus to improve member benefit . the presence of the guarantee allow the trustee to invest in a way that target high return and generate bonus for member . the trustee acknowledge the importance of the guarantee and the ability to generate the bonus that it create . the scheme website state that a typical member ' s pension today be around 33 % high in real term than it would have be have they receive only their actual earn pension up to privatisation . I welcome this success and believe that it would be unwise to tamper with such a fruitful arrangement . I acknowledge the 2021 Select Committee report and its recommendation . however , like my predecessor , I can not agree to implement they . this be a question of balance , and I recognise that there be strongly hold different viewpoint , but like the trustee , the Government recognise the importance of the guarantee and be committed to it . all scheme member will continue to receive their full pension entitlement . that commitment be unwavering . implement the report ' s recommendation would shift the balance of risk to the taxpayer in a way that the Government consider would be disproportionate . the Minister at the time of the report meet the trustee , follow publication of the report , to hear their view . she set out that any change to the surplus sharing arrangement would need the trustee ' agreement to give up the guarantee , which the trustee decline . the Minister then invite the trustee to put forward any further proposal to change to surplus sharing , emphasise that the guarantee would need to form part of any discussion . to date , none have be receive . the Government have agree some scheme change , though , include additional protection for bonus pension , and change to mitigate potential unfair impact of recent inflation change . I stress that we be also open to further suggestion . I be pleased to have work with the trustee and the then Minister on the issue of bonus . I appreciate the argument that today ' s Minister be make , and no one underestimate how important the guarantee be , but do he acknowledge that member of the mineworker ' pension scheme have to date pay £ 4 . 8 billion for that guarantee ? absolutely , but nobody know how this would go when the deal be strike . at the time the deal be strike , it be deem to be fair , but like many other pension scheme it could easily have go the other way . if it have , we would not now be have a debate to say , " well , we need to excuse the taxpayer . " it be a fair deal at the time , and we seek to ensure that it continue to overdeliver . the Minister say that it be a fair deal at the time . I be work down the pit at the time . I assure he that nobody I work with thought that it be a fair deal ; we think that it be force upon the trustee . it be , " take it or leave it . " it have prove not to have be a fair deal . as I say , when the last miner die , billion of pound will go to the Treasury . we have receive a 50 % surplus in return . do the Minister think that be fair — yes or no ? that presume the investment will continue to return at the rate they have ; they could just as easily go the other way , which I suspect be why the trustee be reluctant to release the guarantee . however , to be clear , I remain open to explore option for improvement to the scheme , and would welcome any suggestion that the trustee wish to make . the door be firmly open . future outcome be not know . any market volatility could impact future scheme valuation , and the guarantee will provide even great value should market condition make it hard to generate return . if there be a deficit in the future , member will still see their guarantee pension increase by RPI , and will continue to receive bonus pension to ensure that their total pension do not fall in cash term . if the investment reserve that the Government leave in the scheme to act as a buffer be exhausted , fund from the Government will be find to ensure that payment continue to be make to scheme member . to be absolutely clear , that commitment from the Government be unwavering . question put and agree to . House adjourn .