Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Creative Industries what fiscal step he be take to support creative industry . at the spring Budget , the Government announce a package of tax relief for our world - lead creative industry worth £ 1 billion over the next five year , include a 40 % relief on business rate for eligible film studio in England and enhance tax relief for visual effect . as we know , the UK ' s cultural offer be world - beat and , particularly through the perform art , the UK project soft power across the globe . while welcome the progressive tax break for our incredible film industry , it would appear that our far - reach , high - end television offer have be leave behind in the recent Budget . do my right hon . friend have plan to redress this deficit to ensure that the UK remain first on screen around the world ? no one know more about high - end tv than my hon . friend . whoever say that politics be showbusiness for ugly people be absolutely wrong in his case . I will take away what he say and consider high - end television as a potential future Budget measure . the Chancellor will be aware of the award - win film " the Windermere Children " , which talk about the legacy of those jewish child who survive the death camp in central Europe and make a new life for themselves on the bank of Lake Windermere at Troutbeck Bridge . for the last several year , there have be an ongoing exhibition on their legacy at windermere library , and now we look to build a last memorial alongside a rebuilt Lakes School at Troutbeck Bridge . will the Chancellor be interested in meet the family of the windermere child , and those behind the new build and the provision of a new last memorial to their legacy , at windermere at some point in the foreseeable future ? that be a very tempting offer , and I will see whether my diary permit I to visit the hon . gentleman in his constituency . I have not see the film , but I have see a film on a holocaust theme call " the Zone of Interest " , which be a remarkable British - lead film that I thoroughly recommend to he . strength of the Economy what recent assessment he have make of the strength of the economy . what recent assessment he have make of the strength of the economy . the economy be begin to turn a corner after a series of unprecedented shock . inflation have more than halve , GDP grow in January and the economy be on a path to long - term growth . the economy have grow at a snail ' s pace under the Tories , but that snail be still 30 % fast nationally than in the north - east , despite our strength in clean energy , manufacturing , science and health . on average , my constituent be £ 11 , 500 bad off that they would have be have the economy grow at the same rate that it grow under Labour . be it any wonder that the Public Accounts Committee find no compelling evidence of level up ? be a vote for the Tories not a vote for continue economic failure ? it be not , because we have grow fast than Spain , Portugal , France , Italy , Germany and multiple other country since 2010 . with respect to the north - east in particular , the hon . Lady be absolutely right to say that our vision be to spread growth into every corner of the country . that be why , in the last three month alone , both the Prime Minister and I have be to the Nissan factory in Sunderland to mark its decision to make two electric car model in the UK . just last week , we announce the opening of a massive new film studio in Sunderland that will bring more than 8 , 000 job to the north - east . accord to the LSE ' s Grantham Research Institute , the Government ' s current programme for investment to mitigate the bad effect of climate change will still see climate change damage to the UK increase from 1 . 1 % of gdp to 3 . 3 % by 2050 and 7 . 4 % by the end of the century . to put it into context , that be the United Kingdom ' s entire social care budget of around £ 25 billion . the Climate Change Committee have say that the current approach to adaptation " fall far short of what be require . " have the Treasury make any attempt to assess the cost to GDP , the public finance and job of fail to invest for climate adaptation ? we listen very carefully to what the Climate Change Committee say , and we be absolutely committed to net zero . in fact , a Conservative Government pass the law require government to commit to net zero . the hon . Gentleman will know that we have just become the first major industrialise country to decarbonise by more than 50 % since 1990 . as well as the cost , we be also mindful of the economic opportunity , which be why we be invest billion of pound in our clean energy transformation . my right hon . friend will be aware that my constituency , which have Cambridge to the north , have fantastic new industry such as Johnson Matthey in Royston , which be at the forefront of hydrogen . we have pharma company to the south and some of the good film studio in the world in Hertfordshire . be he consciously try to back those successful industry of the future so that our child and grandchild have fantastic opportunity for the future ? that be absolutely what we be try to do . Film and TV be a good example here , as it have now become an offshoot of the technology industry . film such as " Barbie " have be film in Hertfordshire but have the look of the californian sunshine ; they can withstand the british rain because of the use of high - tech device that simulate californian sunshine , even in my right hon . and learn Friend ' s constituency . what he set out be our absolutely our plan and we will stick with it . in response to covid , this Government introduce the furlough scheme , and deliver and fund the world ' s first vaccine . in response to the energy price spike , this Government introduce comprehensive support for family . the Office for Budget Responsibility , so beloved of the shadow Chancellor , have its long - range forecast for 2025 to 2028 show GDP increase every year , GDP per capita increase every year , average earning increase every year in real term and productivity increase in real term . so do the Chancellor agree that when the shadow Chancellor say that we face a 1979 moment , she be right : a choice between a Labour party still in hock to its union boss and a conservative party commit to growth ? I have nothing to add to my hon . friend ' s brilliant list of statistic , except to cite another independent organisation , the International Monetary Fund , which say that in the next five year this country , under conservative leadership , will grow fast than France , Germany , Italy and Japan . the british people be pay the price for 14 year of conservative economic failure , with low wage , high taxis and public service on their knee . time and again , the Conservatives hide behind international factor and take no responsibility for their failure . yet figure from the OECD confirm that the UK be the only G7 advanced economy now in recession and , accord to the IMF , our economy be forecast to have the second slow growth in the G7 this year . so can the Chancellor tell we : why be the UK so far behind other major economy under the Conservatives ? well , it be not , because it be actually grow fast than France , Germany and a bunch of other country . however , I be glad that the hon . Gentleman mention 14 year , because we can look at what have happen under 14 year of Labour in Wales , where unemployment be high , NHS waiting list be long , school standard be bad and growth be low . what be labour ' s reaction to that terrible record ? it have just promote the Economy Minister to First Minister . Tax Policies : impact on Living Standards what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of his tax policy on living standard . what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of his tax policy on living standard . what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of his tax policy on living standard . thank to the combined impact of national insurance cut and above - inflation increase to threshold since 2010 , an average worker on £ 35 , 400 in 2024 - 25 will pay over £ 1 , 500 less in personal taxis than they otherwise would have do . these national insurance contribution cut be possible due to the significant progress we have make in combat inflation . I hear what the Minister have to say but do he not recognise the OBR ' s assessment of the interplay between the Government ' s threshold change and nic ? the OBR conclude that for every 5p gain per year there be a 10p loss , particularly for those on low wage . do he accept the OBR assessment ? I be sure that if the hon . Gentleman look carefully , he will see that the Government have demonstrate their commitment to support the most vulnerable in society . he will also have hear my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) explain the circumstance as to why we have high taxis than we would desire . if the hon . Gentleman be tell I that Labour party policy be to change the threshold , perhaps he can have that conversation with the shadow Chancellor , who can explain how she would pay for that . the OBR have say that this will be the bad Parliament on record for living standard and the only one in which they have fall : people be poor after 14 year of this Government . we do not need fiscal tweak ; this economy need renewal . it need to bring in investment on a major scale , and a new age of education , training and employment in the real economy . my constituent can not afford to wait while the Tory party look for its polling fortune to change . have we not now reach the point where the good thing for the economy be a general election ? I completely disagree with the hon . Gentleman ' s explanation . not only will I repeat that our constituent completely understand the difficult global circumstance , with the pandemic and the cost of living challenge follow the invasion of Ukraine , but I can say that we have grow fast since 2010 than many other major economy , and the IMF forecast that we will grow fast than Germany , France , Italy and Japan . in the year to the third quarter of 2023 , real household disposable income per person be around £ 1 , 100 high than the Office for Budget Responsibility expect in its spring Budget 2023 forecast . we have turn a corner , and the good thing to do be to stick with the Conservatives . the Minister say that the economy have turn a corner , but household will be £ 870 bad off on average under the Conservatives tax plan , and they will also be see their cost up by £ 110 a week compare with before the last election . be the Minister proud of his record ? we be immensely proud of our record since 2010 : living standard have increase , and growth be now well than that of many other major economy . our absolute commitment to protect the most vulnerable in society be show recently when we provide an average of £ 3 , 400 in cost of live support for each household . we have turn a corner , and the economy be improve . I be just disappointed that the opposition constantly talk down the UK economy and their constituent . will my hon . friend confirm that , follow the 4p cut in national insurance that the Chancellor have introduce , the tax take on worker will be the low it have be for 50 year ? in St Austell and Newquay , two people in a household on average income will be pay £ 1 , 800 less this come year than they do last year . yes , absolutely , my hon . friend have point out an important point on how we have have a laser focus on reduce the personal tax rate . furthermore , the measure announce in the autumn statement and in the spring Budget will significantly add to economic activity , contribute about 200 , 000 full - time equivalent job to the economy , and I be sure that the whole House will welcome that . pensioner can often struggle because they have a fix income , so I be pleased that the Chancellor stick with the triple lock last year , guarantee an increase of 10 . 1 % . will the Minister explain how the 8 . 5 % rise that people will be get in a couple of week ' time will make a difference to their living standard ? my hon . friend make an important point . it be the case that not only have the measure in the autumn statement and the spring Budget help worker , but we have also focus on help pensioner . those on the new state pension will benefit to the tune of about £ 900 a year , which be significant , and the national insurance cut will benefit the average worker — 27 million employee — by £ 900 a year . therefore , we have implement a fair and balanced Budget and fair and balanced measure . family in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke have be support by this national insurance cut , which mean that the average family will be £ 1 , 800 a year well off . the freezing of the fuel duty mean that motorist will be able to get around without be unfairly charge at the pump . money from this Government have enable Stoke - on - Trent to cut bus fare by a third , so that people can travel around . we have have £ 56 million from the levelling - up fund and £ 17 . 6 million for the Kidsgrove town deal , which mean that the sport centre will be refurbish and reopen , improve people ' s health chance . the Labour party close it because it could not be bother to pay a single pound to save it back in 2017 . be it not the reality that we have a clear plan that will help the family of our great constituency , particularly in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke , while Labour will borrow more , tax we higher and lead we back into recession , just as it do in 2008 - 09 ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . this be fantastic , and I think it be a recur pattern , Mr Speaker . we have positivity , optimism , and confidence in the future of the UK economy from Conservative Members , but absolute negativity from Opposition Members , because they have no plan , they have no clue and they have no hope . we have a plan and it be work . I call the shadow Minister . why do the Treasury Minister think people feel bad off after 14 year of Conservative Government ? as I say , we be turn a corner and have therefore make measure to put money back into people ' s pocket . I do not think it would come as a surprise to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , or to those of any Labour Member look at the Labour Opposition ' s recent record , that Labour claim on the one hand that it be supportive of tax cut , but last week fail to support those tax cut when it come to it in Parliament . the Minister do not answer the question about why the public feel bad off . we on the labour side of the House know why . he mention tax cut , but he do not talk about the freezing of tax threshold , or indeed about the council tax that be about to be levy on people , not just this year but each year for the next five year . why can not he admit that , for every 10p extra in the pound take from people since 2010 , the Government be only now give back just 5p ? if I be hear correctly , the Labour Front Benchers be announce fundamental change to policy that they have not yet cost . they do not object , as far as I be aware , to any of the measure require to support household and business during the pandemic , which necessitate increase in taxation . we be now reduce the level of taxation because we have turn a corner . they do not support that . it be interesting that they say one thing but then do not take action . I think they need to explain to their constituent why they fail to support the tax cut last week . Block Grant Funding what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the Spring Budget 2024 on level of block grant funding for Scotland . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the Spring Budget 2024 on level of block grant funding for Scotland . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the Spring Budget 2024 on level of block grant funding for Scotland . as a result of decision at the spring Budget , the Scottish Government be receive around £ 295 million in additional funding in 2024 - 25 through the Barnett formula . accord to the Commons Library , the Government have cut the Scottish Government ' s capital funding by 16 % in real term from 2022 - 23 to 2024 - 25 . the Institute for Fiscal Studies forecast that there will be a further 16 % cut by 2029 . after 14 year of austerity , inflation and covid , can the Minister tell I why the Chancellor be take a hammer to our scottish public service ? the hon . Gentleman be aware that the block grant have be go up in real term . he will also be aware that the Scottish Government can switch resource to capital — unlimited amount , if they choose to do so . he will also be aware , I be sure , that the Scottish Government can borrow up to £ 400 million of capital each year if they so wish . the Tories have fail to invest in our public service and high - growth industry , drag the nation of the UK into recession and increase income inequality . the UK Government continue to impose hard cut to public service . the Commons Library have find that the scottish block grant will have fall in real term in every year since 2020 , yet UK Government Ministers continue to deny that fact . do the Minister understand what " real term " actually mean , and do she see the devastating impact that this be have on public service ? just to be absolutely clear , the Scottish Government ' s total departmental expenditure limit be grow in real term over this Parliament by over 1 % a year on average . obviously , the Minister do not understand what " real term " mean after all . analysis by the Institution of Civil Engineers show a multipli effect : every £ 1 spend in the construction industry bring in an additional £ 2 of spend . that mean that the real - term cut to the Scottish Government ' s block grant for capital by £ 1 . 6 billion over two year far deprive our economy of a wide £ 3 billion . why do this Government think that it be okay to decimate infrastructure spend in Scotland ? the Scottish Government be well fund to deliver their devolved responsibility , and receive 25 % more funding on average per person than the equivalent UK Government spending in other part . that translate to £ 8 . 5 billion more a year on average . I call the SNP spokesperson . consequential have consequence . the Chancellor announce in his Budget £ 20 billion of cut for the public sector , include cut of 13 % in some Departments , and that defy logic . the public sector be cry out for funding , but his choice , if implement , will lay waste to it . do the Minister agree with the IFS , which say that it would be genuinely surprising if the Chancellor ' s plan could be carry out , or with the Institute for Government , which say that " these spending plan will be impossible to deliver " , or with the Resolution Foundation , which say that the plan be fiscal fantasy ? over the next Parliament , our plan be for spending to go up in real term — I want to be absolutely clear about that . equally , spending have go up in real term over this Parliament too . the hon . Gentleman will have notice that at the beginning of my answer , I explain that Scotland be get £ 295 million extra this year through Barnett consequential . it be no wonder that the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that there be a " conspiracy of silence " from both the Government and the Labour party over the scale of these cut . as a percentage of UK spending , the scottish block grant be set to fall to its low ever level under devolution , dwarf its other plan . for Scotland , House of Commons Library figure show capital funding fall by 16 % over the next two year . the Chancellor have already confirm that the scottish energy sector be the big loser from his Budget , and he be double down . why be this Government and this Chancellor try to be the new hammer of scot ? the only area in which I agree with the hon . Gentleman be that I would love to know what the Labour party ' s spending plan be for the next Parliament — perhaps Labour Members will enlighten we this evening . I will repeat what I say at the beginning about capital : the Scottish Government have unlimited ability to switch from resource spending to capital spending . that be a choice that they have . Regional Economic Inequalities what recent fiscal step he have take to help reduce regional economic inequality . what recent fiscal step he have take to help reduce the level of economic inequality between the north and south of England . the Government continue to tackle regional economic inequality and level up the United Kingdom . the Government be empower local leader through a range of devolution deal , regenerate place across the country and invest in vital infrastructure . in response to this month ' s Budget , the director of the Institute for Public Policy Research North have say that " this Budget be the government ' s admission that it have give up on level up this parliament , despite there be much leave to do . " deliver on the Government ' s levelling - up commitment would mean that my constituent would benefit from reduce social welfare dependency , increase earning potential , and improve health and wellbeing . do the Minister not think that my constituent and all citizen outside London and the south - east deserve the benefit that come with economic prosperity ? we be commit to level up , and be deliver on it across the country . median pay growth have be high in every region outside London and the south - east under this Government , and the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be receive £ 19 million from round 1 of the levelling - up fund and £ 20 million from round 3 . we have announce a Greater Manchester trailblazer devolution deal and a Greater Manchester investment zone , which will bring more job and prosperity for all of his constituent . I have hear what Ministers have say this morning , and I must be live in an alternative universe . Liverpool have some of the most deprived ward in the country , which have experience poverty and destitution over the past 14 year as a result of austerity . some 300 , 000 people have access the household support fund , and while we be a resilient city and will continue to support those household , can the Minister explain what safety net will be put in place to support those in poverty and destitution when the household support fund end in six month ' time ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the fact that we have extend the household support fund for the most vulnerable . that be on the back of £ 96 billion of support during the energy crisis and nearly £ 400 billion of support through the global pandemic . I would just point out to the hon . Lady that the fundamental difference between Conservative Members and Labour Members be that we believe the good route out of poverty be through work , and our party be increase employment . across Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly , most job be supply by very small business , many of which fall below the vat threshold . give the economic inequality around the region , the increase of the vat threshold to £ 90 , 000 be very welcome , but the threshold be that low and the cliff - edge effect of go from zero to 20 % have a chilling impact on grow small business and provide all - year - round job . will the Minister consider introduce some sort of taper for that £ 90 , 000 threshold , and increase the vat threshold far — maybe in the region of £ 120 , 000 ? my hon . friend be right : we increase the vat threshold for small business , which will benefit 28 , 000 business across the country . we feel that the £ 90 , 000 threshold strike the right balance between manage public finance sustainably and support business , but as my hon . friend know , we keep these thing under review . the port of Milford Haven in my constituency have be right out in front , take a lead in invest in decarbonisation and show how it can boost the economy of Wales and reduce inequality . yesterday , it be tell that its bid to the Government ' s float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme — its port funding scheme — have be reject out of hand . will my hon . Friend ask his good friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to meet I to talk about the important work be do at the UK ' s lead oil and gas port , and about how the UK Government can support those effort financially ? FLOWMIS be an incredibly important scheme in improve and enhance our ability to expand float offshore wind . we be a huge supporter of my right hon . friend ' s constituent and of the whole of Wales . if the Chancellor can not meet he , I would be very happy to do so . high - income child Benefit Charge Good morning , just , Mr Speaker . what assessment he have make of the impact of raise the high - income child benefit charge threshold on household income . the Government will raise the point at which child benefit be fully withdraw to £ 80 , 000 from £ 60 , 000 , and we will raise the high - income child benefit charge threshold to £ 60 , 000 from £ 50 , 000 from 6 April 2024 , take 170 , 000 family out of pay the charge . overall , these change mean that almost half a million hard - work family will gain an average of £ 1 , 260 towards the cost of raise their child . good afternoon , Mr Speaker . [ Laughter . ] these change be welcome , and they mean that more Lincoln family will receive more support from the Government , as I tell the Minister in Lincoln on Friday . will my hon . friend confirm when the formal consultation on base child benefit on household income rather than on individual income will commence , if the civil servant in the Treasury will let he do it ? I thank my hon . friend . it be a pleasure , as always , to meet he in his constituency on Friday , where we discuss this matter and many other . the Government will launch a consultation in due course on how to end this unfairness by administer the HICBC on a household rather than an individual basis . do so would require significant reform of the tax system , as our tax infrastructure do not currently have a mechanism to consider household income , but the Government plan to end the unfairness for single - earner family in the child benefit system by administer the HICBC on a household rather than an individual basis by April 2026 . I thank the Minister for that . child benefit income be an integral part of how family make their money last through the whole week . if there be any change that will reduce it in any way , be it the Minister ' s intention to ensure that those who have question , difficulty or concern have their concern and wish take on board ? it be really important that those face financial change can cope with the change to come . I thank the hon . Gentleman . it be precisely because of the complexity involve that we will have the consultation . I be sure that his view and those of his constituent will be warmly welcome in that . business Investment what fiscal step his Department be take to help increase the level of business investment . at the autumn statement in 2023 , the Chancellor set out ambitious growth package design to boost business investment , include make full expensing permanent and a tax cut to company of over £ 10 billion a year to ensure we have one of the most generous capital allowance in the world . with further growth - enhance measure set out in spring Budget 2024 , the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that government policy announce at the past three fiscal event be expect to increase the size of the economy by 0 . 7 % by 2028 - 29 . like my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) , I be delighted to see the increase in the vat threshold from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 in the Budget . that will help small business invest for the future , such as the two Doves caf é and gift shop in Overton , which be popular with people from both Clwyd South and North Shropshire . however , give the vital importance to small business , will my hon . friend prioritise increase the vat threshold again in the next fiscal intervention ? my hon . friend come to this House with significant business experience , so when he talk , we certainly listen , and I be delighted to hear that he be pleased with the vat threshold increase . I can tell he that , in addition to what I say to my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) about the £ 90 , 000 threshold , this level be high than that of any EU member state and be the joint high in the OECD . many of his business will be among the 28 , 000 that will benefit from the increase , so we have no plan at this stage to change it . but the actual record of this Government over the past 14 year be abysmal . it be a fact that business investment have be consistently among the low in both the OECD and the G7 , and now the Office for Budget Responsibility be forecast a further 5 % fall this year . why ? announcement in each of our last three fiscal event have enhance our business investment environment for international investor : we have the second high foreign direct investment stock in the world ; we have some of the good university in the world , which be attract business ; we have announce full expensing , which be a £ 10 billion - a - year tax cut ; we have the low corporation tax in the G7 ; and we be reform our energy grid , bring investment into our net zero ambition . we be reform our system , reduce our taxis , and encourage investment . safe Hands plan whether he have have recent discussion with the Financial Conduct Authority on the administration of Safe Hands Plans . I recognise that this have be a very challenging time for Safe Hands customer . the hon . member will be aware that the FCA , as the independent regulator of the funeral plan sector , be responsible for deal with specific case . however , the Treasury and the FCA have work closely throughout the process of bring the sector into regulation , as well as during the implementation of the new regulatory framework . my experience of the FCA and the Safe Hands funeral plan fiasco be that it take six month to reply to my freedom of information request and plead commercial confidentiality to key question , and that , despite be warn , the Treasury fail to support consumer move from an unregulated sector into regulation . it appear to I that the Treasury miss opportunity to support consumer and be still shuffle its foot . at least 47 , 000 people be out of pocket to the tune of £ 60 million . they be try to protect their love one from expensive funeral at the bad of time . will the Minister consider an independent review of this matter ? a constructive response be need to ensure that Safe Hands victim can have confidence in a system that for too long have let they down . I share the hon . member ' s anger at how Safe Hands customer have be treat . the business be under criminal investigation by the Serious Fraud Office and its administrator be bring legal action against the former owner of the Safe Hands business . in the Treasury , we do not believe it be right to use taxpayer money to compensate consumer who lose out due to the conduct of unregulated firm ; Safe Hands be not within the regulatory perimeter at that time . however , we have work with the sector so that the two large provider of funeral plan have agree to provide significantly discount replacement plan for the customer who have find themselves so badly treat . cost of live what assessment he have make of the potential impact of increase in the cost of live on household in 2024 . the rise in inflation cause by Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine and the subsequent energy price shock have put enormous pressure on household . thank to work by the Bank of England and the Government , the rate of inflation be go down , with the Office for Budget Responsibility expect it to be back to target next autumn . since the disastrous Tory mini - Budget of 2022 , household be continue to feel the squeeze at the supermarket , with food price continue to rise and real wage fall for the long unbroken run since record begin . food price have rise by 26 % over the last two year . when will the Government listen to those who wish to follow the lead of Canada and France by introduce a price cap on staple food item at the supermarket ? real wage be now , happily , start to rise and , as I have say , the OBR have say that inflation will be back to target next quarter . what would not help the cost of living be put people ' s taxis up , as the Scottish Government be do . the tax burden be at a record high , wage be stagnant , rent and mortgage be up by hundred of pound , and food price have go up by 25 % . the Resolution Foundation have confirm that this be the only Parliament on record during which living standard have fall . our constituent deserve well . when be the Minister go to give the british public a chance to vote for change and call for a general election ? we have talk a lot today about the £ 400 billion of support that we put in during the pandemic and the £ 100 billion of support that we put in to support people during Putin ' s energy price shock . the Labour party do not disagree with any of those thing , and I think the hon . Lady in her heart of heart will know that we have to pay for that — at least , I hope she do . we have have to take some difficult decision , but because of that , the economy be turn a corner . we be able to reduce work people ' s taxis , and I hope that she and her party will find it within themselves to support we in that endeavour . support for Small Businesses what fiscal step his Department be take to support small business . what fiscal step his Department be take to support small business . what fiscal step his Department be take to support small business . small business drive our economy and we support they to thrive use lever across Government , whether that be through our small business rate relief , by increase the vat registration threshold , by provide relief such as the annual investment allowance or through various programme offer by the British Business Bank . the Welsh Government be increase the burden on small business by reduce retail , hospitality and leisure business rate relief from 75 % to just 40 % , despite the UK Government rightly extend that relief in England in the Budget . that mean that business in my constituency , such as the Little Cheesemonger , now to Bed , Presents with a Difference and Tu Mundo , be all face unsustainable business rate bill . one business have to find an extra £ 35 , 000 a year for business rate alone . what advice do the Minister have for small business in north Wales face these onerous bill ? my hon . friend be right that at the autumn statement , this Government extend the retail , hospitality and leisure relief in England — a tax cut worth £ 2 . 5 billion for small business . the Barnett formula apply to allow the Welsh Labour Government to offer similar relief if they want to . it be disappointing , if not surprising , that when give the opportunity , Labour decide not to cut taxis for work people . do my hon . friend agree that one of the good step that the Government can take to support small business in Eastleigh , Hedge End and Botley be through a package of business rate reduction ? will he outline to the House the progress the Government have make in this regard , which be desperately need ? my hon . friend be right . business rate relief be a great way to support small business in Eastleigh and across the country . our small business rate relief mean that one third of all property in England already pay no business rate at all . we have freeze the small business multiplier , protect more than 1 million property from a multipli increase . as I be just say , we be support high street with our retail , hospitality and leisure relief . just after the Budget , I meet some of the small business in my constituency at the Flower Pots in Cheriton . while they be pleased with some of the Budget , they talk about improve productivity and growth by raise the vat threshold far beyond £ 90 , 000 , and possibly to £ 250 , 000 . they feel that that would incentivise sole trader and small business to expand and work long hour . they feel at present that growth be restrict because of the level of the vat threshold . have the Chancellor give any thought to increase the threshold to improve productivity ? my hon . friend be right to engage in the way that she be with her small business . we believe that the £ 90 , 000 threshold , which have just be increase , strike the right balance between manage the public finance and support small business . I encourage she to look at the wide package of support that the Government be provide for small business , not least the business rate relief that I be just talk about . will the Minister have discussion with his counterpart in the devolved institution to ensure that the like of sole trader and small business see a reduction in bureaucracy to make they more profitable , offer more business opportunity to more people across the United Kingdom ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the Government engage frequently with our counterpart in the Northern Ireland Administration , and that will continue to be the case . accord to the Federation of Small Businesses , two in three small business be suffer from late payment . we be now 14 year into a Tory Government . why do the Government not follow labour ' s lead and strengthen the law on this ? we be acutely aware of this issue , and I have have meeting with the FSB . that be why the Chancellor have announce plan to improve the situation for small business . I be happy to outline that in writing to the hon . Gentleman . one of the request from female - lead business in my constituency , include C ù rlach and Rock ' n Rollers , be for a vat cut for hairdressing business . can the Minister tell I why that be not consider in the Budget ? these business be an important part of our high street and they be often lead by woman , who have miss out significantly in the Chancellor ' s Budget . we of course support hairdresser , our high street and woman - run business , which be why we have extend the retail , hospitality and leisure relief to 75 % . cut taxis for hard - work people be what the Conservative Government do . Income Tax policy : Pensioners what recent assessment he have make of the impact of his income tax policy on pensioner . the Government have nearly double the personal allowance since 2010 , and in 2024 - 25 it will be more than 20 % high in real term than if it have be uprate by inflation since 2010 - 11 . the personal allowance be currently set at a high enough level to ensure that pensioner whose sole income be the full rate of the new state pension , or the basic - rate pension , do not pay any income tax . I have be contact by pensioner in my constituency who get a full state pension plus protect payment from the old scheme . the increase in their pension in line with inflation have put they over the personal allowance threshold for pay income tax , which have eat away at that increase . be it the Minister ' s intention in the Budget to drag pensioner into pay income tax ? as I have outline , and as the Resolution Foundation and other have point out , pensioner have gain about £ 1 , 000 on average as a result of the Government ' s decision since 2010 to increase threshold . some pensioner rely solely on the state for their income , and we be support pensioner through a variety of other measure : not only the triple lock but pension credit and cost of live support . pensioner across the country will benefit from the 8 . 5 % increase come in April . I welcome the recent tax cut . we need to ensure that those who work hard and do the right thing be reward in their old age . can the Treasury please stop allocate fund to France , which be clearly not stop the boat , stop extortionate amount be spend on hotel for illegal migrant , and reduce the foreign aid budget ? maybe then we can give even more to our pensioner . my hon . friend will be well aware that Government Members be implement measure to tackle the very problem she outline while turn the corner in the economy and do everything we can to put more money back in people ' s pocket , whether worker or pensioner . tax - free shopping what assessment he have make of the potential merit of reintroduce tax - free shopping for international visitor . as set out at the spring Budget , we be consider the finding of the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s review of the original costing of the withdrawal of tax - free shopping , alongside industry representation and broad datum . the Government welcome further submission from stakeholder in response to the OBR ' s finding as we keep all taxis under review . last week , the OBR inform the Treasury Committee that it have not assess the Treasury ' s forecast that it would cost £ 900 million to extend tax - free shopping to EU visitor . the OBR have also fail to support the Treasury ' s assumption that EU visitor behaviour and cost can be extrapolate from assessed non - EU datum . the UK retail industry firmly believe that it will cost as little as £ 50 million to reintroduce tax - free shopping for tourist . as we mark English Tourism Week , be it not time that we have a full , independent review of the Treasury ' s datum on tax - free shopping ? I thank my hon . friend for her consistent championing of tourism , particularly during English Tourism Week . it be not in the OBR ' s remit to consider the effect of alternative policy and , as expand tax - free shopping to EU visitor be not current government policy , it have not consider that . however , the finding of the review will be useful in give insight on the overall behavioural incentive of the policy , which will be relevant for both EU and non - EU population . it be therefore right that the Government take time to consider the OBR ' s finding along with other representation and within the context of broad datum , as announce in the Budget . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to update the House on living standard in the UK . the most recent datum suggest that despite a tough couple of year cause by the pandemic and the energy crisis , living standard will return to their pre - covid peak next year : a full two year early than originally predict by the OBR . they have rise by £ 1 , 700 a household in real term since 2010 , and this year ' s cut in national insurance will increase living standard by 1 % . in other word , to coin a phrase , now be not the time to go back to square one . give that the Prime Minister have be force to abandon his plan for an election on 2 May and could soon be face a leadership challenge , do the Chancellor of the Exchequer believe that his Budget land well with the public or even his colleague on the Government Benches ? I say very simply to the hon . Gentleman , who use to be an hon . friend , that the Budget will mean that the UK economy will grow fast than that of France , Germany , Italy or Japan in the next five year . that be do the right thing for the country . I would like to thank the Minister for the opportunity to meet UK Finance yesterday , which tell I and other mp that the industry plan to roll out 225 banking hub in the next 18 month . give that my constituency have lose every single bank branch over the last few year , will the Minister help I to make sure that Leigh - on - Sea , which have 250 retailer , will get one of those 225 banking hub ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . first , it be important to note her consistent championing of this issue for her constituent , for which she deserve huge commendation . to her precise question , it be important that industry , not the Government , make decision about bank branch or banking hub , but she have make her case very ably . I urge she to work with Cash Access UK and LINK to ensure that she have the good chance of secure one of those new 225 banking hub , as outline by the industry , in her constituency . we come to the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . after the Budget , the Chancellor write to conservative party member tell they that the Government plan to abolish national insurance . the Economic Secretary say that " national insurance will vanish " , and the Prime Minister say it be his " ambition " to abolish it . will the Chancellor confirm whether he ask the Office for Budget Responsibility to cost the Government ' s unfunded plan to abolish national insurance contribution ? I be very glad that the right hon . Lady ask about national insurance cut , because first she support they , then she abstain in the Lobby , and now she appear to be against they — like the banker ’ bonus tax , which she be strongly in favour of and then strongly against ; like £ 28 billion of borrowing , which she be strongly in favour of and then strongly against . be not the actual truth that , where Labour should have an economic policy , there be just a black hole fill with platitude ? the Chancellor do not even attempt to answer the question . the chair of the OBR tell the Treasury Committee the week after the Budget : " it be not a measure give to we to cost " . even the Chancellor ' s predecessor , the right hon . member for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) , who be sack for his own kamikaze Budget , say , " if you ' re go to reduce taxis , you have to show at least partially where the money ' s go to come from . " so I ask the Chancellor : where will the money come from ? will it come from cut to the NHS , the state pension and public service ? will it come from increase taxis , include for pensioner ? or will it come from increase borrowing ? which one , Chancellor ? even torsten Bell from the left - lean Resolution Foundation say that the right hon . Lady ' s argument that this be a mini budget - style black hole be nonsense , because we specifically say that we would not fund national insurance cut from increase borrowing or cut spending on public service . I gently ask she , if she want to put on the mantle of fiscal rectitude , where be Labour go to find literally billion of pound to fund unfunded spending pledge , from grid decarbon - isation to NHS waiting list ? we all know what that will lead to : high taxis , like under every Labour Government in history . St Mary ' s in Paddington be a much - love , much - use hospital in my constituency . although it be take off the list of 40 new hospital to be redevelop , I be delighted to be work with my hon . friend the Member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) and the Minister in the Lords responsible for hospital to make a case with the trust to ensure that it be redevelop . could the Chief Secretary to the Treasury please update the House on the timeframe for make available government funding so that we can submit the planning business case for the redevelopment ? I commend my hon . friend and my hon . friend the Member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) on their great work on this project . there appear to be a compelling case , and I know that the programme team at the Department of Health and Social Care be look closely at the proposal . the Fife whisky festival take place in Cupar early this month , and be a great success . the industry welcome the freeze in alcohol duty , but note that it be only for six month . when will the Government provide the long term consistency that the industry need ? our support for the Scotch Whisky Association be long - stand , and it be a pleasure to meet its representative recently . we have freeze or cut duty for scottish whisky in fiscal event go back many year . we be represent the Scotch Whisky Association in trade agreement , and that support will endure long into the future . in response to the spring Budget , I have hear from constituent who feel that they may have be forget . under the Conservatives , the number of pensioner live in absolute poverty have be slash by 200 , 000 across the country , and we have protect the triple lock , but could my right hon . friend please remind I of all the step that his Department be take to support Hartlepool ' s pensioner , so that I can tell they on the doorstep this weekend ? I would be delighted to do that . the independent Resolution Foundation say that , because of measure that this Government have take , pensioner be £ 1 , 000 well off in real term than in 2010 . we do two thing specifically in the budget : we put £ 6 billion into the NHS , which be use more by pensioner than anyone else ; and we back worker ’ tax cut to support growth in the economy , which mean that we can continue to fund the triple lock for many year to come . one of my constituent write to I last week about her son Fred . he have down ' s syndrome and severe learning disability , be profoundly deaf and have an autism diagnosis . his parent and grandparent do the right thing and put money into a child trust fund for he . Fred will be 18 next month , but he lack the capacity to access his money and there be no easy way for his parent to do so . will the Chancellor work with colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions and the Ministry of Justice to unlock the money for Fred and an estimate 80 , 000 disabled young people ? I be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss the precise circumstance of his constituent ' s case . in general term , it be a priority for we to ensure that people get access to that money if it be due to they . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . do the Chancellor see an article yesterday in which the independent director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies confirm that the average earner in the UK now have the low effective personal tax rate since 1975 — low than in America , France , Germany or any G7 country ? someone on £ 35 , 000 — the average earning for those work full time — face an income tax and national insurance bill of nearly £ 2 , 000 less than they would have do on the same real earning back in 2010 . do the Chancellor agree that now he have change the rule on residence and domicile , the Opposition ' s unfunded spending plan could lead to high taxis — order . these be topical question , and I want to get to the member who have not yet be call . I thank my hon . friend for her excellent question . she be right that it be not just the low effective tax rate for someone on average earning since 1975 , but the low headline tax rate and the low tax rate in the G7 . that be the fundamental divide in british politic : taxis have go up , and on the Government Benches we do not think that we have to accept the status quo ; on the Opposition Benches they do . why be that ? because low taxis mean high growth . a recent survey from the Debt Justice campaign have show that 13 % of adult have miss three or more bill or credit payment in the past six month , and 6 . 7 million people be now in financial difficulty . do the Chancellor accept that for million of people , get from one end of the month to the next under the Tories be a nightmarish struggle , and that people feel bad off because they be bad off ? may I gently correct the hon . Lady ? as I say , living standard have rise by £ 1 , 700 per household since 2010 , and the number of people in absolute poverty be down by 1 . 7 million . she be right to talk about the debt pressure that people face , which be why in the Budget we abolish the £ 90 fee for debt relief order , have talk to Citizens Advice . the propose change to wine duty will add huge cost and complexity to business . far to my Westminster Hall debate , will my hon . friend meet I and representative of wine business to hear their concern , and make permanent the easement that be due to end on 1 February next year ? my hon . friend be talk about the large and most significant reform of our alcohol duty system in 140 year . we be make it more simple by say : the strong the alcohol by volume , the more duty pay . we introduce the wine easement to give the wine industry two year to prepare for the change . I continue to engage with the industry , and I will continue to engage with he . two year ago , P & O Ferries sack 786 worker and replace they with agency staff pay less than the minimum wage . after that fiasco , the Government promise to review all contract with the company . why be it that , since then , the Government have spend £ 900 , 000 directly with P & o ferry ? why be the Conservatives so comfortable spending taxpayer ' money on reward the appalling treatment of work people ? let I say to the hon . Lady , who I very much enjoy work with on the Select Committee , that our record be 800 more people in work for every single day of conservative government since 2010 . what will wreck that be Labour ' s new deal for worker , which the president of the CBI say will destroy the job - create machine that the UK have become . I commend the Treasury for good fiscal policy that have result in inflation fall significantly since the pandemic . when might we see a commensurate fall in interest rate ? I be very sorry to disappoint my hon . friend , but chancellor never comment on decision make by the Bank of England on interest rate . what I can say be that the Office for Budget Responsibility predict at the Budget that inflation would fall to around target in the next few month . that give the good possible prospect of interest rate start to fall . last night on BBC ' s " Newsnight " , it be clear that the need of Wales , in particular on health , be not meet in the UK . when have the UK Government ever give England Barnett consequential base on need in Wales , Scotland or Northern Ireland ? surely the model of spending under which the Government in England decide for England , and everyone else get a consequential of that , must end . nordic country do not calculate spend as a percentage of their neighbour ' spend . why be the spending of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland dependent on what England decide to spend ? the Barnett consequential formula be long establish . it give a clear framework , through which we can understand spending in the devolved nation . the hon . Gentleman will know that it mean high per - person fund in each of the devolved nation than in England . I be delighted that my right hon . friend the Chancellor be seek to make the tax system more family friendly , include by collect household datum in the year ahead , but be family friendly include look after the family home . Sweden abolish inheritance tax in 2004 . the result be a boom in entrepreneurship , economic growth and high tax revenue . will he , or one of the excellent ministerial team , meet I to discuss that far ? I thank my right hon . friend for his advocacy in support of family . we have have conversation , and I know that he very much welcome the change to the high - income child benefit charge and child benefit . we always keep taxis under review , and I be always delighted to meet he . do the Chancellor accept that he have cause a great deal of anxiety and further distrust among those who have be infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal by not make any provision in his Budget for compensation , although the recommendation for compensation be make to the Government last April ? I gently say to the right hon . Lady that I stand by every word I say when I give evidence , twice , to the infected blood inquiry . the Government have an absolute moral responsibility , not just to pay the compensation owe , but to pay it as speedily as possible . I would like to join the Economic Secretary to the Treasury and my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) in discuss the closure of bank . Barclays bank , in particular , be both shameful and shameless in this regard . do my hon . friend agree that we need full transparency on the decision make by Link and the Financial Conduct Authority ? something we learn yesterday that may be of interest to those in Chorley , Mr Speaker , be that the criterion take into consideration only the town plus area within a 1 km circumference . that be not how the rural economy work . will the Economic Secretary work with I to ensure that the criterion take into account the wide economy ? my right hon . friend be another good example of a Member who be an excellent champion for her constituent , on this issue and so many other . as for her specific point , it be right for the industry to work out how it will increase provision and adapt the criterion for rural area , but I will work with she to ensure that the banking hub be roll out in an equitable way , to rural as well as more urban area . Israel and Gaza Urgent Question ) to ask the Secretary of State if he will make a statement on the situation in Gaza and Israel . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . Israel suffer the bad terrorist attack in its history on 7 October last year . the scene that we see on that day be appalling , and Hamas ' s disregard for civilian welfare continue today , more than five month later . we remember all the time those who be still be hold hostage and their family , and we call once again for their immediate release . however , we naturally remain deeply concerned about the humanitarian situation in Gaza and the impact of the conflict on all palestinian civilian . we have bear witness to death and displacement on a vast scale . More than 1 , 700 , 000 people have have to leave their home , many on multiple occasion . we be deeply concerned about the grow risk of famine , exacerbate by the spread of disease , and , of course , about the terrible psychosocial impact of the conflict , which will be feel for year to come . we be totally committed to get humanitarian aid to all those people in Gaza who desperately need it , do so either ourselves or through UN agency and british or other charity . we and our partner be push to get aid in through all feasible mean , by land , sea and air . we have treble our aid funding to the Occupied Palestinian Territories this year , provide just under £ 100 million , of which £ 70 million have be deliver as humanitarian assistance . on 13 March a further 150 tonne of UK aid arrive in Gaza , include 840 family tent , 13 , 440 blanket , nearly 3 , 000 shelter kit and shelter fixing kit , 6 , 000 sleeping mat , and more than 3 , 000 dignity kit . a field hospital , provide through UK aid funding to UK - Med , arrive in Gaza from Manchester last Friday . this facility , staff by UK and local medic , will be able to treat more than 100 patient a day . along with Cyprus , the United States , the United Arab Emirates and other , Britain will help to deliver humanitarian aid by sea to a new temporary US military pier in Gaza via a maritime corridor from Cyprus . we have make it clear , however , that air and sea delivery can not be a substitute for the delivery of aid through land route . only through those route can the demand for the volume of aid that be now require be meet . we continue to press Israel to open more land crossing for long , and with few screening requirement . there be no doubt that land crossing be the most effective mean of get aid into Gaza , and Israel must do more . there be also no doubt that the good way to bring an end to the suffering be to agree an immediate humanitarian pause , and progress towards a sustainable , permanent ceasefire without a return to destruction , fighting and loss of life . reach that outcome be the focus of all our diplomatic effort right now , and a goal that be share by our international partner . we urge all side to seize the opportunity , and continue negotiation to reach an agreement as soon as possible . yesterday , a UN - back report reveal the shocking reality that famine in Gaza be imminent . half the population be expect to face catastrophic level of hunger — the high number of people ever record as be in that category under this system . only twice in 20 year have famine condition be reach , but what distinguish the horror in Gaza from what have come before be that it be not drive by drought or natural disaster ; it be man - make . it be the consequence of war . it be the consequence of aid that be available not reach those who need it . food be pile up in truck just a few kilometre away , while child in Gaza be starve . it be unbearable , and it must not go on . international law be clear : Israel have an obligation to ensure the provision of aid . the bind measure order by the International Court of Justice require it . the world have demand it for month , yet still aid flow be woefully inadequate . aid actually fall by half between January and February . that be outrageous . the continue restriction on aid flow be completely unacceptable , and must stop now — just as Hamas must release the hostage now . I do not doubt that the Minister agree with I , but will he have the courage to say that the ICJ ' s order , include on aid , be bind , and that Israel must comply with they ? do the lawyer at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office believe that Israel be currently in compliance with its obligation ? amid this accelerate hunger crisis , Prime Minister Netanyahu reportedly approve plan for an offensive against Rafah . that would risk catastrophic humanitarian consequence . it would be a disaster for civilian and a strategic mistake . how be the Government work to prevent a further attack on Rafah ? the truth be this : it will not be possible to address the crisis in Gaza if the fighting do not stop — and that be also the good way to secure the release of hostage . will the Government finally join we and dozen of country , and call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and comment , which I will try to deal with more or less sequentially . first , he ask I about the report of famine . the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification , or IPC , report be clear : it say that famine be a very real scenario . we be do everything we can to try to head that off , as I set out in my response to the urgent question . in addition to famine , there be also the danger of disease , the lack of health service , and the acute danger from the lack of clean water and effective sanitation . we be do everything we can to head off the appalling circumstance that the right hon . Gentleman set out . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the number of truck . I can tell he that on Sunday , 192 truck do get in , but that be woefully short of what be require . it be more than have be get in in March , which have average 165 each day so far , and in February that figure be only 97 — although he will be well aware that before the crisis , more than 500 truck a day be get in . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about the ICJ . as everyone in the House will know , the ICJ judgment be bind . in respect of the offensive against Rafah , the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister , and indeed all our ally , have consistently warn that an offensive against Rafah at this time would have the most appalling humanitarian consequence . may I finish by take the point that the right hon . Gentleman again make about a ceasefire ? as far as I be aware , the position of the Labour Front Bench be still the same as the position of the government : we be call for an immediate pause so that we can get the hostage out and aid in — follow , we hope , by a sustainable ceasefire . that be what we be work towards . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . may I start by put on the record my gratitude to the Minister for the Middle East , who make significant representation ahead of Ramadan to reduce tension in Jerusalem and allow access to the Al - Aqsa mosque , which so far remain calm ? the IPC report make for breathtakingly difficult reading and the humanitarian situation be catastrophic , but it need not be . may I ask that we please push hard on truck entry from Jordan and ensure that it be fully operationalise , and can my right hon . friend tell I when the House will be formally update on whether Israel be demonstrate commitment to international humanitarian law ? I thank my hon . friend for her comment about my colleague Lord Ahmad , the Minister for the Middle East , which I will pass on to he . in respect of international humanitarian law , we be go through the necessary legal process , which be complex , but I can tell she that as soon as we be in a position to update the House on what we have set out clearly before , we will do so . I call the SNP spokesperson . I take absolutely no satisfaction in say that a month ago in this Chamber I say that innocent people will die because of Israel ' s decision to prevent food from get to those who need it . the report of an imminent famine should surprise no one ; we have all know that this deliberate , man - make famine be come . the Foreign Affairs Committee have just return from al - Arish , on the Egypt - Gaza border , where we see hundred and hundred of lorryload of food and aid wait for permission to get into Gaza . let we be very clear about our language here : the people of Gaza be not starve ; they be be starve . do the Minister accept that there be no food shortage in the region ? do he accept that people be starve to death just 44 mile from Tel Aviv — the distance between Glasgow and Edinburgh — as a direct result of the israeli siege and the premeditated decision to cut off food supply ? do he also accept that starve a civilian population to death be a war crime ? finally , do he still believe that the UK be right , both legally and morally , to continue sell weapon to Israel ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , he be well aware of the arm sale regime that Britain adopt . as I have say to he before from the Dispatch Box , it be the tough regime anywhere in the world . [ interruption . ] if I may say so , the difference between he and I be that he see thing as we would wish they to be , but we in the Government have to deal with they as they be . that be why we be take so many step to try to achieve the release of the hostage , and to get aid and support into Gaza . one of the point the hon . Gentleman make be right , and it be echo by the shadow Foreign Secretary : the way to get aid into Gaza be by road and by truck . of course we be do everything we can to explore every way , include the maritime route and drop aid from the air , but at the end of the day , aid be deliver by road . that be one reason why we be work so closely with Jordan to ensure that the aid route into Gaza by road be enhance . at the end of the day , that be the right route to get aid in , and we be do everything we can to try to make sure that it be pursue . last time , I ask my right hon . friend about progress on try to have a hostage transfer , because right at the core of this conflict be the visceral feeling of the Israelis that they want their people home , which anyone can understand . have any progress be make , and would he like to update the House on where we be with that ? I completely agree with my right hon . and learn Friend , which be why try to get the hostage home and out of Gaza , and try to get food in , be absolutely our twin objective . in an extremely difficult circumstance , Britain be certainly right at the front of all country in try to achieve that . it would not be sensible for I to give the House a run commentary on hostage release , but he will have see that negotiation have resume in Qatar . obviously , everyone in the House will hope that those negotiation be both speedy and successful . a new independent multi - agency investigation by the United Nations into an israeli military airstrike on a residential compound housing an emergency medical team — include from medical aid for Palestinians , a UK charity — have find that it most likely involve a 1 , 000 lb US - manufacture bomb fire from an F - 16 jet . those F - 16s include part supply by the UK . can the Minister today set out conclusively that no part supply by the UK be use to bomb a compound housing medical staff from a UK charity — will he rule that out ? the event that the hon . Gentleman describe be appal , and what the british Government would say be that there must be a full and transparent inquiry and examination into how those event take place . it remain incredible that some people in this place can barely utter a word of criticism of the Hamas regime in Gaza , who themselves be be accuse of steal and hoarding aid . with regard to the operation in Rafah , the israeli Government have be very clear that hostage be be hold there and that some of they have be subject to sexual violence and other abuse . be we say to the israeli Government that they have no right to go in and seek to rescue those hostage ? no . as my hon . friend know , we have be absolutely clear throughout that Israel have the right to self - defence , and what he be describe be cover by the right to self - defence . he set out eloquently that absolute blame for what have happen lie with Hamas for perpetrate the event of 7 October , and once again he be absolutely right to set out that context . we be talk as if famine be imminent , but the fact be that the UN report that 27 palestinian child have already die from starvation and hunger . Josep Borrell have say that hunger should not be use as a weapon of war , and I hope that the Minister would agree . we need that ceasefire immediately . we need it to get the hostage out , we need it to get aid in , and we need it to get all the killing to stop . my question to the Minister be simple . what we be do be not work , but there be one more thing we can do , which be to change how we vote at the Security Council . will the UK stop abstain and join the rest of the world in call for that immediate ceasefire now ? the hon . Lady speak on these matter with great knowledge and great sincerity , and I greatly respect what she say . the problem with call for an immediate ceasefire be that it may salve our conscience but it be not deliverable , because neither side in this appalling brutality be willing to embrace a ceasefire . that be why the policy of the British Government be to argue in every way we can for a pause , so that we can get the hostage out and get aid in , which can then lead to a sustainable ceasefire . that be what we will continue to do in all international fora , include the United Nations . over the past few month we have all listen to the Minister explain that the Government have be beg , plead with and press the israeli Government to allow more aid in , but seemingly to little effect . have he now reach the conclusion that the israeli Government be wilfully obstruct the entrance of aid into the Gaza strip ? if so , that would presumably be a breach of the International Court of Justice ' s ruling , and indeed of international humanitarian law . what would be the consequence of that conclusion ? I do not agree with my right hon . friend ' s premise , because I do not think we be in the position to reach that judgment , but the point he be make be that it be essential to get more food , aid , support and medicine into Gaza , and every day the British Government be work intently to that end . Mr Speaker , " famine be a reality … the high hunger level of anywhere else in the world in term of total number … all manmade … a ceasefire be an absolute requirement " . those be the word of Matthew Hollingsworth , the country director of the World Food Programme , and of the UN Secretary - General . starvation be indeed be use as a weapon of war . in Gaza , it be clear that Israel be engineer a famine for more than 2 million civilian . it be also clear that UK diplomacy have fail , so the Minister must now indicate what action the Government will take to escalate pressure to stop Israel ' s military assault , to demand a ceasefire and to ensure that emergency assistance be provide through UNWRA to those be starve to death . I think that many people in Israel and elsewhere will find part of what the hon . Lady have say profoundly offensive . she be right to say that the characteristic of famine be present in Gaza , as I set out in my early response , and that be why we be do everything we can , together with our ally , to get as much food and support into Gaza as possible . official on the ground have state that Hamas be appropriate — or misappropriate — as much as 60 % of the humanit - arian aid enter the Gaza strip . this be part of a long pattern of prioritise fighter , abuse aid to produce rocket and use construction material to build hundred of mile of tunnel for their terror activity . we know that they do it ; they have do it for year and they be do it now . do my right hon . friend share my concern that Hamas be flagrantly disregard the humanitarian need of the people of Gaza , while Israel have be increase the amount of aid go in exponentially ? I very much agree with my right hon . and learn Friend that Hamas be use ordinary people in Gaza as a human shield . it be utterly repugnant as well as completely against international humanitarian law and , like he , I condemn it . humanitarian organisation have be warn repeatedly that this would happen . a group of we meet they last week , and when this conflict start I meet Islamic Relief , which be base in my constituency . we now end up here , where we be see healthcare be attack and systematically degraded . we be see no safe zone leave . we be tell of the onset of famine , and that the number of people be kill keep rise . will the Minister finally please listen to the call of member across this House , of the international community and of the people work on the ground and call for an immediate ceasefire and unrestricted aid ? I have set out several time already today why call for an immediate ceasefire may make we feel well but be not a practical resolution . that be why — [ interruption . ] there be no difference between the analysis that the hon . Lady make , and the NGOs in her constituency , and my analysis . the question be : what do we do about it ? that be why Britain , along with our ally , be continuously , on a 24 / 7 basis , do everything practical that we can to get more food and support into Gaza . my right hon . friend have mention the float pier to be construct by the United States . what assurance have he receive that the pier will be use solely for the delivery of humanitarian aid and not , as have be suggest , subsequently repurpose for military use ? it be early day yet to see precisely how that maritime initiative will deliver , but I do not believe that what my right hon . friend fear will be allow to happen as we tackle that issue . we be give strong support to all mechanism for get aid into Gaza — air , sea and land — but he , like I , will understand that the good mechanism be always by land . I do not think I have ever receive as many email of concern from constituent as I have about the situation in Gaza . as have already be say , over 500 , 000 Palestinians be at starvation level and 27 child and three adult have die so far as a result of starvation and dehydration . in the word of medical aid for Palestinians : " this be not happen because the rain have fail or there have be a poor harvest . it be because … the israeli authority refuse to allow enough food into Gaza " . so I have this question for the Minister , and my Edinburgh South West constituent will be listen to the answer : do he agree that starvation as a weapon of war be a war crime ? the point that I hope the hon . and learn Lady will make to her Edinburgh constituent be that she and I , the Government and the whole House be intent on ensure that more food and more support get into Gaza as rapidly as possible . that be what the Government be do every day . I welcome the hard work that the Minister be do to get more aid in , to bring an end to the fighting and to get the hostage release , but it be appal to think that large number of innocent people , include child , be about to starve when there be aid just over the border . he be right that aid must flow across the border and that it be well to transport it in truck , but if that be not possible , we must think of this like the Berlin airlift . we have to get aid in by sea and by airdrop . I welcome what the Americans be do to drop aid on the shore , and we have to do whatever it take to get the aid to the kid who be go to starve unless we get it to they . I completely agree with the sentiment that my hon . friend express so profoundly . he be right that every single mechanism must be explore , but he will know that the amount of aid we can drop from the air , the danger to those underneath and the danger of the aid be misappropriate and steal by Hamas be very real difficulty . he will also be fully aware of the difficulty of maritime entry . that be why we be do everything we can to argue for more point of entry into Gaza , more truck and more land route to get the aid in that be desperately need . the ICJ ' s interim ruling make it clear that the killing of Palestinians in Gaza must stop , but it have not ; that immediate humanitarian aid must be allow into Gaza , but it be not ; and that the safety and security of civilian must be guarantee , but it be not . as a result , more than 1 million Palestinians in Gaza be leave starve and on the brink of famine , as confirm by today ' s IPC report . the israeli Government continue to flout international law by use starvation as a weapon of war . child be starve , civilian be be kill and medical facility be be attack . what will it take for this Government to stand with international humanitarian law and oppose the action of the israeli military ? how many more innocent Palestinians must be massacre ? how many more child must die through starvation ? when will the Government call for an immediate ceasefire ? the one thing that be miss from the hon . Gentleman ' s list be an urgent call for the release of the hostage . in answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , Israel must do more . we set out very clearly the five step it need to take : an immediate humanitarian pause ; increase capacity for aid distribution inside Gaza ; increase humanitarian access through land and maritime route ; expand type of humanitarian assistance allow into Gaza , such as shelter and item critical for infrastructure repair ; and the resumption of electricity , water and telecommunication service . I hope that we can unite with everyone else in this House on go after those five key aim . the israeli hostage must be release , and innocent Palestinians in Gaza must be support . the Foreign Affairs Committee meet egyptian President el - Sisi when we be in the Gaza border region a fortnight ago . what particular support can this country provide to the Egyptians on deliver aid and avert a potential humanitarian and refugee crisis if the situation be not stabilise ? I thank my hon . friend and all the Select Committee member for their work , their visit and the powerful argument they have add to those of the Government . in response to my hon . friend ' s direct question , I meet the head of the Egyptian Red Crescent in Egypt . we be in very close contact to make sure that british aid and british support enhance the excellent effort that the Red Crescent be do everything it possibly can to prosecute . it be clear that Prime Minister Netanyahu have not take the slight notice of anything the British Government or even the Americans have be say . Mrs Thatcher suspend arm sale to Israel in 1982 , and Tony Blair do the same in 2002 . what on earth would it take for this government to follow their example ? the right hon . Gentleman refer to the view of Prime Minister Netanyahu , and he will know that both our Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have engage directly with Prime Minister Netanyahu to ensure that he be fully aware of what Britian think . the right hon . Gentleman will also be aware that Israel be a pluralist democracy — the only one in the region . he will be aware that israeli Minister Benny Gantz , whom the Foreign Secretary recently meet in London , have different view from Prime Minister Netanyahu . there be many different view , and Britain strongly support the view that I have set out to the House today . it be not for minister to make policy on arm sale and the arm regime from the Dispatch Box . it be for the proper due process — as lay down and approve by Parliament , and as lay down in law — and that be what we follow . give the impending famine in Gaza , as outline by the IPC report , will the UK align with the EU , Sweden , Australia , Canada and many other country by restore funding to UNRWA as the most effective way to urgently and immediately scale up the delivery of aid , food and medical supply to Gaza ? as my hon . friend know , we expect the report from the United Nations Office of Internal Oversight Services and , indeed , the interim report from Catherine Colonna , the former Foreign Minister of France , tomorrow , and we will read it with very great interest . Catherine Colonna be work with the Raoul Wallenberg Institute in Sweden , the Chr . Michelsen Institute in Norway and the Danish Institute for Human Rights , and we hope that her report will show a road map by which funding to UNRWA from Britain and many other country can be restore . my hon . friend will equally be aware that UNRWA be fully fund for some month hence , and that british funding be fully pay up until into the next financial year . it be estimate that people in northern Gaza have go entire day and night without heat at least 10 time over the last 30 day . Lord Cameron have say that UNRWA be the only body with a distribution network in Gaza , and the Minister mention the report that will hopefully be available tomorrow . will he assure the House that the UK Government will take a decision on resume funding as soon as possible , and at least before the end of this month , which be only 12 day away ? I can not give the hon . Gentleman a precise timetable , but I can answer yes to his question about it be do as soon as we think it be possible to do so . every life matter , whether Muslim , christian , jewish , another faith or no faith . at the centre of this crisis — a crisis start on 7 October by Hamas ' s unprovoked attack on innocent civilian — whatever their faith or lack of faith , be child , woman , man and vulnerable people who be suffer right now as we go off to our lunch or afternoon tea . the Minister will know that I have be supportive of the Government , and that I will continue to be , but I hope he will note a change in tone . the figure vary , but it be estimate that 30 , 000 civilian and roughly 10 , 000 Hamas terrorist have be kill in Gaza . if it be true that 10 , 000 other terrorist be despicably hide in Rafah among the civilian population , make it difficult to deliver aid , be we likely to see another 30 , 000 civilian kill so that Israel can find those terrorist ? what be the british Government ' s position ? be this something the Minister would support ? the awful symmetry that my right hon . friend set out be certainly one that no one want to see . but the point he make so eloquently early in his question , set out the view and feeling he hold , be widely reflect across the House , and I agree with he . half the population of Gaza be at risk of imminent famine , describe by Melanie Ward of Medical Aid for Palestinians as mean starvation , destitution , acute malnutrition and death . so do the Minister agree that all available aid corridor must be open without delay and that there must be an immediate ceasefire , to enable food , water and urgent medical supply to reach more than 1 million people in desperate need ? all hostage must be release and this live hell must end . I agree with almost everything the hon , Lady have say , but she will be aware , from what I have say today and previously , that call for an immediate ceasefire be not , in the opinion of the British Government , a practical proposition . that be why we continually argue for a humanitarian pause , so that we can get the hostage out and food in , follow by a sustainable ceasefire . yesterday , the israeli Prime Minister vow to press ahead with the assault on Rafah , despite warning from the international community . the prospect of million in Rafah , who be there only as they desperately escape conflict to the north , be subject to far suffering be intolerable . will the Minister update the House on work that be go on with our international partner to make clear those concern to the israeli Government , while continue to press Hamas to release the hostage ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her call for the release of the hostage . in respect of any military operation in Rafah , may I draw her attention to the word of the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister about the terrible danger , loss of life and humanitarian consequence involve in that ? she , like I and , I hope , everyone else in the House , will be hope that no such operation go ahead . I have no problem condemn Hamas , but I also have no problem condemn the use of starvation as an act of war . Israel have control on the ground in Gaza — enough to oversee the distribution of aid and to make sure it get to the people who need it most . do the Government agree that Israel , as the occupy force , have a legal duty to oversee the distribution of that aid ? the important point about the distribution of aid be that it should be able to get into Gaza , preferably through road and land route . I set out for the House early the amount that be get in . although they be increase , they be nothing like adequate and do not come anywhere near the number before 7 October . that be why the Government be do everything they can to augment those figure . we all want to see a ceasefire that be sustainable and hold out the prospect of a last peace . but the very definition of the word " ceasefire " mean that both side have to agree to end hostility . do my right hon . friend agree that anyone call for an immediate ceasefire need to make it clear that that must include Hamas release the hostage , cease all hostility and commit to a future peace ? my hon . friend be correct in what he say , but the important point , which I have repeatedly make in the House , be that in order to have a ceasefire we have to have agreement from those take part in these action that they will abide by a ceasefire . Israel have the right of self - defence and the right to protect itself from the appalling act that Hamas perpetrate on 7 October ever take place again . Hamas have make it clear that they wish to repeat those awful act . those thing do not sound to I like a strong basis for have a ceasefire . three standout statement from today have be that starvation be be use as a weapon of war ; Israel be provoke famine ; and the UK be still sell arm to Israel . when will the Minister understand the damn nature of this and the damage it be do to the UK ' s international reputation — or , rather , what be leave of it ? we have be clear that Israel have the right of self - defence but it must abide by international humanitarian law and the rule of war . Britain be one of the lead nation on find way to get aid into Gaza and help our ally and other regional power to do everything we can to get the hostage out . I hope that the hon . Gentleman be proud of our country ' s intervention in both those respect . I welcome the recent news that the UK will be send a UK aid field hospital to Gaza . what assurance have be seek and what assurance have be give in respect of sufficient force protection for all the staff there , some of whom may be british ? we be acutely conscious of the way in which humanitarian worker — not just in Gaza , but all around the world — put themselves , unarmed , in harm ' s way for the sake of their fellow human being . my hon . friend be right to say that a field hospital provide by UK Aid funding to UK - Med arrive in Gaza from Manchester last Friday . that facility be staff by UK and local medic , who will be able to treat more than 100 patient a day . we be acutely conscious of the contribution they be make and we do everything we can to ensure that they be protect . to any reasonable and informed observer , the conduct of the war in Gaza by Israel contravene basic international humanitarian law , in fail to distinguish between armed combatant and civilian , in use force beyond what be militarily necessary , and in offence against the prohibition of inflict unnecessary injury , and it be wholly disproportionate . More than 100 , 000 Palestinians have now be kill or injure by israeli force in Gaza since last October . the Minister rely on Israel be a democracy that be capable of abide by its legal obligation , but the overwhelming evidence be that it be not do so , so what legal advice have he receive about the complicity of and danger to our country in fail to take sufficient action under the relevant treaty to which this country be a signatory , to deter such gross breach of international humanitarian law ? as I say , we continue to assess Israel ' s commitment and capability to comply with international humanitarian law . those assessment be support by a detailed evidence base , conflict analysis , report from charity , non - governmental organisation , international body and partner country , statement and report by the israeli Government , and their track record of compliance . we take all of that into account in make our judgment . I point out to the hon . Gentleman that when it come to target and military action , the Israel Defence Forces have their own lawyer embed in those unit , in much the same way of prudence that the british military do . that be not something we see in any other force in the region and it should give some confidence that the Israelis be seek to abide by international humanitarian law . I welcome report that Israel be open new route to directly deliver humanitarian aid into northern Gaza , amid a slowdown in UN operation and the widespread Hamas misappro - priation of that aid , which be reference early . significantly , at the same time , every day the IDF document more and more Hamas infrastructure , weapon and missile within civilian building — this week at al - Shifa Hospital and last month underneath UNRWA ' s own headquarters . so be the grim reality not that as long as Hamas remain in control of Gaza , no matter how many time people cry for a ceasefire , there can be no peace ? as my hon . friend set out , it be clear that there be no place for Hamas in any future for Gaza . what happen on 7 October be uniquely appalling and I agree with he that until Hamas be remove from Gaza , the opportunity of peace be very limited . the UN ' s special rapporteur have be crystal clear that arm sale to Israel for use in Gaza be unlawful , give the clear risk that they will be use to violate international humanitarian law . yet the Government have consistently refuse to disclose whether licence , for example , for F - 35 fighter plane , have be review , let alone amend . will the Minister take the opportunity finally to give Parliament a straight answer on this ? I do not want to be tell that review be possible , because we know that . I want to know whether those review have happen and whether he be go to publish the detail . I do not want he to tell we simply that the arm regime in the UK be the tough in the world . I know that , but it give no reassurance at all to the more than 1 million people face famine in Gaza right now . the hon . Lady ask I whether these matter be keep under review , and I can assure she that they be always keep under review . equally , they be not decide at the whim of Ministers stand at the Dispatch Box ; they be decide through a detailed , proper , legally govern , code - govern process , and that , as always , be what the Government be do . as we debate this topic , child be starve to death in Gaza . baby be so malnourished that UNICEF say that they do not have the energy to cry . famine be not just imminent ; it be happen , accord to the head of Refugees International . this be not a natural disaster and it be not accidental ; it be intentional . Israel be use starvation as a weapon of war to collectively punish the palestinian people . Israel block food from enter Gaza while bomb the people trap inside . will the Minister finally admit that official have warn he that Israel be break international humanitarian law , or do his whole Department refuse to accept the truth that Israel be commit war crime after war crime in Gaza ? the hon . Lady use florid language to describe these matter , but I hope that she will agree that the right thing be to do everything we possibly can to get the hostage out , support the people whom she so eloquently describe , and get support into Gaza , and that be what the Government be seek to do . every month in Hammersmith , we hold " ukrainian open house " to bring together all those support ukrainian family who have flee that war . every month , I be ask why there be not similar visa scheme to allow Palestinians to join their relative in the UK , or to be host by family who wish to give they refuge here . what be the Government ' s answer to that ? the Government ' s answer be that the two position be not analogous ; they be very , very different . the hon . Member will know that we be do everything we can to help individual case in both instance , and we will continue to do so . save the Children have report that 1 . 1 million people across Gaza be face catastrophic food insecurity at the hand of Israel , with one in three child acutely malnourished . do the Minister agree that Israel ' s tactic of starve the palestinian people be a war crime ? as I have set out several time , we be do all we can to make sure that the necessary food and resource get into Gaza , so the point that save the child make in the evidence that the hon . member read out be address , and we will continue to do precisely that . the Minister will know that the UK supply approximately 15 % of the component use in F - 35 stealth bomber currently be deploy in Gaza — the very same bomber allegedly be deploy from RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus . early this month , a dutch court order the country ' s government to block all export of F - 35 part to Israel after concern that they be be use , in violation of international law , during the ongoing war in Gaza . will the Minister commit today to suspend the supply of F - 35 component , and will he also confirm whether RAF basis be be use as a launch pad for bombing in Gaza , or indeed , in any military operation supportive of the IDF and the israeli military force ? I repeat that these decision be not make at the whim of a Minister stand at the Dispatch Box . they be make in the normal way through a proper legal and code practice . the Government will always operate on that basis in these situation . Canada , Australia , Sweden and the European Union have now confirm that they will restore the funding to UNWRA , refute Israel ' s position that 450 member of the agency ' s staff have participate in the 7 October attack . with people die from the imminent famine in Gaza and Palestinians be kill try to get flour to feed their family , the international community hold a degree of responsibility for fail to stop this situation . in light of the catastrophic situation in Gaza , will the Minister commit to restart and increase this funding to UNRWA as a matter of urgency ? we have already increase funding significantly , include to UNRWA . the hon . Member will know that Britain be not at the moment in the position of have to make that decision , because we have fully fund what we say we would fund and be not due to provide any further money until the end of April . the answer to his question , I hope , will be contain in the report from the Office for Internal Oversight Services and from Catherine Colonna ' s interim report , which we be expect tomorrow . I know that , like I , he will read it with great care in the hope that it show a suitable way ahead that we can all endorse . can the Minister try to help the House in understand the Government ' s position on who they believe be directly responsible for block the aid go into Gaza ? what be the Government ' s direct response to the comment of the UN Secretary - General , who have say that this be the high number of people face catastrophic hunger ever record by the integrate food security system anywhere ? regardless of the accuracy of those final comment , there be no doubt at all , as I set out in my early response , that the IPC report say that " famine be a very real scenario " . that be why we be try to do everything we can , by every possible mean , to make sure that aid get into Gaza . I have explain to the House the difficulty of the air and maritime option , but those difficulty be not stop we from pursue those opportunity . at the end of the day , it be by agreement with Israel that we will get more truck in , open up more point of entry , and find other way of bring aid in by road . we be pursue all those matter and will continue to do so . the need for an arm embargo in Israel be lay out by the International Court of Justice in January due to genocidal risk and serious harm to civilian . since then , we have have no action from Ministers . UN expert have rightly call for hostage exchange and release , but they have also warn that the transfer of weapon or ammunition to Israel should cease immediately . we have see more than 13 , 000 child kill , the destruction of 60 % of civilian home and hospital destroy . water and food supply be so low that Gaza be already in the midst of a catastrophic , man - make , state - make famine . the Minister boast moment ago that the UK have an arm licensing framework with some of the tough regulation in the world . it be plain for all to see that that claim be in tatter . when will Ministers finally match their word with action , hold the israeli Government to these standard , and hear the call from aid agency , the UN and my constituent to stop arm sale to Israel and to stop the onslaught against innocent palestinian man , woman and child ? as I have repeatedly say to the House , the issue of arm sale be deal with in a legal and code way . the Government have no intention of vary from that process . it have be show , as I have say before , that we have the tough regulatory regime in the world and we continually keep it under review . none the less , it be important that these thing be do properly and in accordance with the rule lay down by Parliament and lay down by the law , and we will not vary that . in respect of the early part of the hon . member ' s question , I agree that it be essential that we be able to get more supply into Gaza . we spend all our time argue for new way of entry and for new opportunity to get aid in , but , as I set out in our five key aim , we want the resumption of electricity , water and telecommunication service as well as infrastructure repair to start as soon as possible . across the House , we be all desperate to see the release of the hostage , but the negotiation for their release be not aid by the treatment of palestinian prisoner in israeli jail and detention centre . the israeli newspaper , Haaretz , have report that 27 palestinian detainee have die in israeli custody since the war and some during direct questioning . it have report beating , abuse , torture , sexual assault , and prisoner be prevent access to doctor , lawyer and medication . a magistrate in Jerusalem have report that the prisoner be detain in cage not fit for human being . now we have have the family of Marwan Barghouti , the palestinian leader who many hope will secure peace , say that he have be beat with club by guard . will the Minister demand that the israeli Government provide access to the detention centre and prison for humanitarian body to investigate these abuse and bring forward a report , which , hopefully , will end the abuse and assist in the negotiation for the release of the hostage ? the right hon . Gentleman have put his finger specifically on the treatment of detainee . as he will be aware , the treatment of detainee be govern by international humanitarian law and the Geneva convention . he will have see what the Foreign Secretary have say about the treatment of detainee , and Britain have consistently call for an inquiry , and for transparency in that inquiry , into any allege abuse . the Minister have lay great weight this afternoon on the legal and coded process that govern the export of arm , but a new international humanitarian law compliance assessment process cell have be create in his Department . will he publish every assessment that that cell have make of Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law , and will he tell the House whether the threshold have now be reach to review or cancel any extant open general export licence for arm sale ? the right hon . Gentleman have serve at a senior level in government and know what government do and do not publish . however , he can rest assure that when we receive advice on international humanitarian law , we look at it extremely carefully , and when the Law officer make their judgment on this matter , we come to the House and update it . that be what we will do in due course . many of we in this place have be call since November for the release of the hostage , the removal of Hamas , an immediate bilateral ceasefire , and humanitarian aid . sometimes , it seem the only thing that have change be that the situation have get bad for people in Gaza . my constituent write to I constantly . they feel that the israeli Government be ignore plea , and that the people of Palestine have be abandon . the Minister say that he would do whatever it take in this situation — I have every respect for he and believe he when he say that . do the Minister accept that one of the big barrier to peace be illegal israeli settlement in the west bank ? recently , there be sanction against four israeli settler who have commit human right abuse against Palestinians . the Liberal Democrats hope that that be just the start . will the UK Government consider sanction Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , who promote that extremist agenda , and all the settler movement connect to they in a way that finally make a difference to what be happen ? the hon . Lady will be aware that Britain have consistently condemn settler violence . we have make it clear that we expect those responsible to be catch , arrest , try and punish for it , and we will continue to do so . as she mention , four settler have be sanction . we do not discuss on the Floor of the House the operation of the sanction regime , but she may rest assure that the opinion of the Government be that the settlement and the act that she describe be illegal , and we will do everything we can to ensure that they stop . as mps from right across the House have say this afternoon , child in Gaza be starve — they be be starve — and we can not tolerate it . if the UK ' s stand on the rule - base order and international humanitarian law be to be worth anything around the world , the ICJ ruling must be bind , and there must be consequence for failure to comply with it . what be those consequence ? the hon . Lady say that people be starve in Gaza . everyone agree that that be the case . the issue be what we can constructively do to bring about an end to the very worrying starvation figure that have be reveal this week . we be do and will continue to do everything we can . I have set out at some length to the House the various different way in which we be try to achieve that . I will follow on from the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) , which go to the heart of the situation . my constituent be heartbroken by the image that they be be send from Gaza of child die of hunger , and they want to know why the world be largely do nothing to help they . I believe in the rule - base system , which be under enormous strain right now from a variety of different quarter . international law matter , and we must show leadership when it come to the ruling of international institution such as the ICJ . what be Britain do to ensure that Israel and other party hold to the rule of international law and the judgment of the ICJ ? the hon . Gentleman say that his constituent be heartbroken by what be happen ; we be all heartbroken by what be happen . the issue be what we do about it . I have set out throughout the course of the last hour a number of way in which Britain be show real leadership in try to address the humanitarian situation and to ensure that negotiation to get the hostage out be successful . we will , along with our ally , continue to bend every sinew to ensure that everything that can be do be do . the Minister speak of the detailed evidence that his Government be rely on , but the world ' s medium be prevent from report inside Gaza almost entirely . if we see the daily reality of life there in more detail , I suspect the international pressure on Israel would be even strong . what be the UK Government do to ensure that any deliberate targeting of journalist — particularly palestinian journalist — who be protect under international humanitarian law , be be pass on to the International Criminal Court for its investigation into war crime ? as I have set out , in the IDF — as in the british military — the issue of target be , unusually , govern by legal advice . lawyer be embed with the people who be make those decision . in respect of the medium , any such targeting would be absolutely outrageous . I pay tribute to the brave journalist who be ensure that accurate reporting come back from Gaza and the middle east . I want to make it clear that I have oppose Hamas since 2007 , I deplore the action take on 7 October , and I totally believe that the hostage on both side must be release . however , I agree with the Minister that the israeli blockade be lead to famine and to death and displacement . young child be die of malnutrition and hunger . he say continually that the two side will not sit down together . why , then , do he not put a Security Council resolution to the United Nations to ensure that something be do on an international level , such as put in a peacekeeping force to deal with the issue and allow people to continue normal life ? the House will understand that the issue of a police force inside Gaza be premature . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment about Hamas and for what he say about deplore all the thing that Hamas have do — I agree with he about that . he set out the scale of humanitarian need . throughout this urgent question , I have be set out how Britain be , along with our ally , seek to help move the dial to get more aid and support into Gaza and get the hostage out . in term of the United Nations Security Council and its resolution , the hon . Gentleman will know that Britain be one of the lead architect of those resolution in our role as one of the permanent five in New York . I pay tribute to Barbara Woodward , Britain ' s permanent representative at the United Nations . the british mission at the UN be work ceaselessly to ensure that there be agreement on resolution that can help bring an end to this . the unfold famine be entirely man - make and be be use as a weapon of war by Israel . it be a war crime , and those who continue to support that collective punishment and deny aid be complicit in this unfold tragedy . last week , Janez Lenar č I č , head of humanitarian aid and crisis management at the European Commission , say that neither he nor any other UNRWA donor have be present by Israel with any evidence of UNRWA involvement in the 7 October attack . when the International Development Committee visit northern Egypt recently and speak to the head of UNRWA , they also have no evidence , so my question be very simple : have the Minister be present with any evidence to support his decision to pause the UK ' s life - or - death funding to UNRWA ? the hon . Gentleman will have see the evidence that have be put before the international community , and will know that it be sufficiently strong for the head of UNRWA to immediately act against some of his official . on all these matter , tomorrow we will hear the interim report from Catherine Colonna , the former french Foreign Minister . we look forward to study that report when we have a chance to read it , in the hope that it will take matter forward . as the Minister will be aware , thousand across Israel have protest in opposition to the approach that Prime Minister Netanyahu be take , include the hostage family — they know that the situation in Gaza will not help release their family member . People in Israel see what be happen to the Palestinians ; they hear the word of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights , Volker T ü rk , who have say today that what be happen and Israel ' s continue restriction on aid " may amount to the use of starvation as a method of war " . he be explicit about that and the concern that it raise . I understand the Minister tell we that he do not want to make policy from the Dispatch Box , but will he tell we whether he have seek explicit legal advice on the question of whether Israel be now commit a war crime in its use of starvation — yes or no ? we be always in receipt of legal advice , and we act on it . when we receive it , we take the necessary step , as the hon . Lady would expect . in the first part of her question , the hon . Lady she set out a point that I be make early , more eloquently than I do : Israel be a pluralist democracy . there be different view , and I tweet last weekend about the extraordinary , move work be do by two people who have come together from opposite side , whose family have suffer so grievously in the aftermath of 7 October . it be that pluralist democracy that give we the chance that accountability will be properly follow in Israel , which — as I say — be the only pluralist democracy in that part of the world . the IPC report publish today show that one in three child under two year old in the north of Gaza be now acutely malnourished . in February , that figure be one in six . this month , people of muslim faith across the world will be observe Ramadan . the situation in Gaza be dire and urgent , so will the Minister call for an immediate ceasefire to ensure that no civilian go hungry , malnour - ishe or without medical support in Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman and I both share the desire that people should not go hungry in Gaza . that be why the Government , along with our ally , be work so hard to get more food in . we will continue to do everything we possibly can to make sure that the suffering that have be so eloquently set out by member from all part of the House be bring to an end as soon as possible . do the deliberate starvation of a civilian population constitute a war crime — yes or no ? there would be , I think , very serious doubt about the term " deliberate starvation " , so I be unable to give a yes or no answer to the hon . Lady ' s question . we all know that behind Hamas sit the malign power of Iran and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . the same be true of Hezbollah and the Houthis . with the Foreign Secretary have be in post for five month , can the Minister update the House on what progress have be make on proscribe the irgc ? as the right hon . Lady know , the issue of proscription be not one that we discuss on the Floor of the House , but the argument for and against be keep under very close review by the Government and will continue to be keep under review . to deal with the grave and worsen humanitarian crisis for the sake of the die child and innocent civilian as Palestinians desperately try to survive and observe the holy month of Ramadan , it be imperative that both side agree to an immediate ceasefire , which be what I recently vote for in Parliament . aid in huge quantity be critical , and any attempt by the israeli Government to block it must be condemn , so what be the UK Government do to achieve an immediate ceasefire , get hostage release , and put pressure on the israeli Government to allow unimpeded aid into Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman will have see the word of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary about the absolute imperative of get more aid and humanitarian supply into Gaza . I have answer the point about an immediate ceasefire on a number of occasion over the past hour and a quarter . as the hon . Gentleman know , in order to get a ceasefire , both side in this terrible conflict need to agree to one , and there be absolutely no indication whatsoever that Hamas have any intention of a ceasefire — indeed , they have make absolutely clear that they wish to perpetrate once again the terrible event that take place on 7 October . Hamas ' s cold - blooded murder of at least 1 , 300 israeli civilian on 7 October be truly abhorrent , but sadly , those horrific number be now dwarf by the number of innocent of all faith who have have their life take away from they in Gaza . I welcome the fact that the Government be move on their position , but I believe they be go to have to move far and fast to prevent a catastrophe and further loss of innocent life . the Minister have state that the International Court of Justice ruling be bind ; will he inform the House how that ruling can be enforce ? the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the Government move on their policy be not true . basically , the Government have make it clear throughout that we will do everything we possibly can to achieve a pause , so that we can help get the hostage out and food and support into Gaza . we be continue to do everything we can , night and day , to reach that conclusion . the head of the UN , Ant ó nio Guterres , the head of security policy for the EU , Josep Borrell , and multiple account on the BBC have all indicate that famine be under way . the Minister have repeatedly say this afternoon that he be move the dial , and that the Government be do everything they can . my constituent would like to understand how he be do absolutely everything he can and how he be show leadership to ensure that all route be open by Israel and that we avoid further human catastrophe . can he explain that in very practical term ? I have set out for the House the work that we be do , in respect of both the maritime corridor and support food and medical supply deliver from the air . at the end of the day , though , those be inevitably go to be relatively small amount , particularly from the air . the answer be to try to open up more access point into Gaza by road and to make sure that truck flow more easily through those access point . the british Government have be do everything we possibly can with our ally to ensure we take that agenda forward , and we will continue to do so . as I set out , a number of tonne of aid arrive in Gaza on 13 March ; a very large number of family tent , blanket , shelter kit , shelter fixing kit , sleep mat and dignity kit go in . that be on top of the enormous amount of aid we have provide previously to UNRWA , and also to UNICEF , the Egyptian Red Crescent and to other NGOs , charity and medical organisation that be do everything they can to try to alleviate the suffering in Gaza . I be absolutely clear that the hostage must be release . I be also absolutely clear that the situation in Gaza have go from dire to horrendous to cataclysmic , and my constituent do not understand why it be be allow to continue . the majority leader in the US Senate have identify Netanyahu ' s ultra right - wing Government as a barrier to peace , and the European Union foreign policy chief have say that Israel , one of the rich and most militarily powerful nation in the world , be " provoking famine " . so will the Minister say clearly that it be unacceptable for Israel to prevent aid from enter Gaza ? will he also say clearly what he be actually do about it — what demand he be make of Israel , what consequence he be set out to Israel for its action — beyond wring his hand ? I thank the hon . member for her clarity on the issue of the hostage . she ask why all of this be be allow to continue . I would point out to she , as I have consistently this afternoon , that the Government , along with our ally , be do everything we possibly can to stop it continue . she ask I about what else we can do to try to ensure that it do not continue . I would point she to the comment I make in my response to the shadow Foreign Secretary about all the different way in which Britain , along with our ally , be seek to alleviate the suffering take place in Gaza . child in Gaza be die at the fast rate the world have ever see , accord to the IPC report . instead of call out Israel for its culpability , the Government still refuse to sign UN resolution and they still sell arm to Israel . their great wheeze be to try to find way to bypass the israeli blockade by deliver aid by air or by sea , which be clearly not go to get enough aid in . the Government be not go to admit how absurd their position be , but will the Minister answer this directly : have the Government receive legal advice that Israel ' s hinder aid get into Gaza violate international law ? the Government keep our legal advice under review at all time . the current legal advice be that Israel have both the capacity and the will to abide by international humanitarian law , and if that position change as a result of the advice of the Government lawyer , we will of course make that clear to the House . we hear this morning how half the population in Gaza — and this be the first time in modern history that such a large population have be affect — be be subject to famine . we also hear about the absolute imperative that we as a country , and also our ally , obey and abide by international law . give that , and that the Minister have say that he and his Government be do all they can , can I ask on behalf of everybody here — and , most importantly , on behalf of my constituent , because they do not understand — what exactly that is , and in apologise for be so blunt , why it seem to be so ineffective ? on the hon . Lady ' s first point , everyone must abide by international humanitarian law , and Britain be do everything it can to ensure that the rule of war and international humanitarian law be respect . she ask why our effort be " so ineffective " . I would argue with her wording , but this be not a situation that Britain be tackle alone . all of we — the Americans , the European Union and those across the region — be do our very good to ameliorate the suffering go on in Gaza . it be a collective effort , and Britain will not be find want in continue to exert all the pressure we can , along with our ally , to ensure that this situation be bring to a conclusion . the horrific famine in Gaza be make even bad by the fact that we know it be man - make . there be no agency well than UNRWA at deliver the small amount of aid that there be currently . I have listen to the Minister ' s response , and I have hear he tell the House that there be a report due out tomorrow and that funding from the UK Government remain in place until the end of April , but the end of April be now 43 day away . how will the Minister ensure that there be no break in funding for UNRWA ? will the Government urgently resume the funding so that UNRWA can deliver what little aid there be to the people who so desperately need it ? the hon . Lady be right that UNRWA have the logistic hub , warehouse , vehicle and infrastructure that be essential for the delivery of aid in Gaza , and everyone understand that . she ask I whether I can guarantee that we will be able to resume funding at the end of April . I very much hope that will be the case . it will be very much dependent on the report tomorrow from the former french Foreign Minister , and indeed on that from the United Nations . we be do everything we can to advance the case to make sure that we can resume funding when it be possible . I will update the House in due course on the result of those report and on the judgment that the british Government make at that point . this week , Prime Minister Netanyahu confirm with his Cabinet that he plan to proceed with an operation in Rafah . we know this assault will end in the killing of many civilian , include child , and it will of course impede aid flow into Rafah , which be the main place where aid now enter Gaza . the consequence will be catastrophic . how be the Minister use the ICJ and sanction to stop further assault in Gaza , not least in the light of the comment from the Prime Minister of Israel that " no international pressure will stop Israel " ? on military operation in Rafah , the hon . Lady will have hear what the Prime Minister have say and the advice he have give to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and she will have hear what the Foreign Secretary have say very clearly indeed . she will have hear what the European Union have say , and indeed what President Biden have say . we very much hope that the israeli Government and Prime Minister Netanyahu will heed these word , which come not from enemy of Israel , but from friend of Israel . one million people face the imminent prospect of famine . Matthew Hollingworth , the country director of the United Nations World Food Programme have confirm that the situation be reversible . in fact , in January , the Foreign Secretary — the Minister ' s boss — confirm that Israel have a legal obligation as the occupy power to provide food and water to the Gazans . do the Minister agree that the israeli Government must allow the full reopening of land bridge into Gaza , and that they should recommence the issuing of new visa for humanitarian worker ? finally , will he confirm whether his Government be in lockstep with Chuck Schumer and President Biden , or with Prime Minister Netanyahu ? we be work incredibly closely at all level with the American Administration . the hon . Member ask about new visa . we have consistently urge the israeli Government to grant the UN visa and , indeed , renew visa as swiftly as possible . he be quite right about the effect of famine be reversible , and that be why Britain be seek to ensure that aid in much great amount get in by road , sea and air in every way we possibly can . famine in Gaza be imminent and the death toll be rise . like many , include the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights , I can not help but be concern that continue restriction of aid , and therefore starvation , be be use by the israeli Government . the holy month of Ramadan risk turn into a further tragedy for million of Palestinians face hunger and disease . stern word just be not cut it with Netanyahu , so what will it take for the Government to go far , and stop the export and sale of weapon to the israeli Government ? I respect the Minister for say that he can not make up policy on the hoof at the Dispatch Box , but when will he be able to stand at the Dispatch Box and give this House answer to the serious question on arm sale , unimpeded aid , the restoration of UNRWA funding and potential sanction ? on all those matter , I have be clear to the House about where the Government stand and their direction of travel . the underlying point the hon . Lady make be the reason why we be argue with such force and passion for a humanitarian pause in which we could get resource into Gaza and get the hostage out , and such a pause could lead to a sustainable ceasefire . that be what the Government will continue to do . we urgently need an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , a massive surge in aid , all hostage release , and a last peace with a two - state solution . I recently meet with medical aid for Palestinians to discuss the desperate and unbearable humanitarian crisis in Gaza . can the Minister explain the detail of what the UK Government be do to press for the necessary food and aid to get into Gaza and , critically , for it to be distribute there rapidly ? the hon . Gentleman be right in his final point about the logistical difficulty . we be work with all the resource we can to make sure that the aid can be deliver and be not siphon off , pilfer or attack by people who be very short of food and desperate to get it . he set out the importance of a humanitarian pause , hostage be release , and a new political vision of the future for Palestine . those three thing be very much at the heart of what the british Government be seek to achieve . I thank the Minister for his answer to the question , and his focus on find a last ceasefire and peace , because that be what everyone in this House want . will he outline what aid and assistance have be provide to those in the Gaza area who can use arable land to attempt to grow food for community use ? can we in this place do anything more to provide self - sustain aid ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the issue of arable land use inevitably take a bit of a back seat at the moment because of the difficulty grow crop in Gaza , but in a future settlement , and in building towards a two - state solution , that would definitely be part of reconstruction . I very much accept the wisdom of what the hon . Gentleman say on these matter , and I be sure that the issue will be address when we reach that stage . I point out to he , as I have mention to the House before , that the progress make at Oslo be on the back of appalling event in the second intifada , and we must hope that , in spite of the desperate current event , we be able to lift people ' s eye to the political possibility of a two - state solution in which both Palestine and Israel live in peace behind secure border . ensure that that happen , when the moment come , be the central aim of the British Government , and a great deal of work and planning be go into what such an initiative would look like . over 1 million people in northern Gaza be on the verge of famine , and aid group be issue dire warning of catastrophic level of hunger and man - make starvation . just last week , the UN report that humanitarian aid be be deny or postpone by israeli authority . we be not powerless — this Government can and should take action — so what else can the Government do to lobby the israeli Government on allow more aid to enter Gaza as a matter of urgency ? do Ministers agree that we need a ceasefire now , and that be the good way to get the release of hostage ? I set out to the House and for the hon . Lady the issue around a ceasefire , and why it be the view of the Government and many other that a pause for humanitarian purpose could lead to a sustainable ceasefire . that be the sensible way to proceed . she ask what more the british Government and other could be do . I submit that Britain be do everything it possibly can to achieve aim that be commonly hold across this House : bring an end to the situation in Gaza ; get the hostage home ; and get aid and support into Gaza . I reassure the hon . Lady and the House that we will continue to do everything we can , night and day , until we reach those objective . point of Order 2 . 4 pm on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 19 September 2023 , the chair of the Brook House inquiry , Kate Eves , publish her report on the mistreatment of individual detain at the Brook House immigration removal centre . the report contain shocking account of incident at Brook House , include serious problem with the way that force be use by detention staff on detain people . these account be so disturbing that the Select Committee on Home Affairs hold a private session with the chair of the inquiry . I have meet the Gatwick Detainees Welfare Group , and later this week we will visit Brook House to discover what progress have be make . we will also hold an oral evidence session on the subject after the Easter recess . although we welcome the Government ' s write response to the Brook House inquiry today , I be very disappointed that the Home Office choose not to update the House through an oral statement , but instead use a write ministerial statement . the matter raise in the report be very serious indeed , and member should have the right to question the Minister on the situation at Brook House and the action that the Home Office will take . may I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how we can ensure that Home Office Ministers be bring to the House at the early opportunity to answer question ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady , who chair the Select Committee on Home Affairs , for give I notice of her point of order . as she point out , the Government have not so far seek to make an oral statement to the House on this issue , but I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear her comment and will pass they back , perhaps to Home Office Ministers and official . in the meantime , the right hon . Lady be a very experienced Member of the House , and I be sure that she will be aware of the various option open to she in the Chamber and Westminster Hall , and indeed through her Select Committee . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 7 January 2020 , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South ( Stewart Malcolm McDonald ) lead an Adjournment debate in this House on the UK special force in Iraq and Afghanistan . I attend that debate not only as a constituency MP , but as the brother of someone who serve in Iraq and Afghanistan and who , like the majority of the armed force , do so diligently and with the utmost professionalism . in response to my hon . friend , the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , the right hon . member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , who I have inform of this point of order , state : " there have be allegation make by individual , a very small number of whom work within the investigative team . " — [ Official Report , 7 January 2020 ; Vol . 669 , c . 362 . ] only last month , the Minister submit evidence , not only in person but in writing , to the independent inquiry on the deployment of special force in Afghanistan , in which they state that they have inadvertently mislead member of this House by read out statement that they later find to be incorrect . indeed , that be also communicate through a letter that they send in August 2020 to the then Secretary of State — it be part of the evidence submit last month — which state : " that I have be allow to read out statement to the House of Commons that individual in strategic appointment in the department know to be incorrect be completely unacceptable . these be clearly not complaint by ' a small number of individual within the investigation team ' but widespread . I have continually downplay these allegation in public , too , to support " the special force " and the department . " the Minister have the opportunity to correct the record when the House return from the summer 2020 recess , but they have yet to do so in this Chamber . you may correct I , Madam Deputy Speaker — I hope you will not — but the ministerial code be very perjink that it be of paramount importance that Ministers of the Crown be accurate and truthful in give information to the House . it state that Ministers of the Crown must correct " any inadvertent error at the early opportunity " . indeed , the Minister state recently on social medium platform : " I be an elect politician who serve the public . I be not an appoint official and my position rely on my reputation and my ability to sustain public confidence in my character . " I wonder whether you , Madam Deputy Speaker , agree with the former chair of the Committee on Standards in Public Life , who advise the House that the Minister may have be guilty of " let the House of Commons down " . it sound like major incompetence . the House of Commons be base on trust in the word of Ministers of the Crown , and trust that what minister say be true . if they promise to do something , it undermine the integrity of the political system when they do not keep to their word . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you advise how the Office of the Speaker will ensure that after more than three and a half year , the Minister come to the Dispatch Box to correct the record and apologise to the House , and to those member of the armed force who conduct themselves in a professional manner ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give I notice of his point of order , and for confirm that he have inform the right hon . member to whom he refer that he intend to raise this issue . Mr Speaker have always be clear that if Ministers feel that the record need to be correct , they should do so as quickly as possible , but it be also true that minister be responsible for what they say in the Chamber — hence why they should correct the record if there be a problem . the operation of the ministerial code be not a matter for the Chair , and I hope that the hon . Member understand that . have say that , those on the Treasury Bench will have hear his concern , and will feed they back . if the Minister consider a correction be necessary , one will be forthcoming . I think we will leave it at that . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . last week , in this House , I call on the Government to not only publish their contingency plan in the event of Thames Water ' s financial collapse , but go a step far and put this fail , pollute giant into special administration . in preparation for that debate , I table a number of name day write parliamentary question to the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , schedule for publication on Friday 15 March , yet I still have not receive — [ interruption . ] order . I have to listen carefully to member , so if other could refrain from chat , that would be helpful . I still have not receive a response to those question , two day after the deadline . the question I ask be : how many meeting the permanent secretary of the Department have hold with Thames Water on Operation Timber in the past 12 month ; if the Secretary of State will the publish the minute of meeting that official in his Department have have with Thames Water on Operation Timber in each of the last six month ; and when the permanent secretary of his Department last meet official from Thames Water to discuss Operation Timber . the continue failure of this Conservative Government to be transparent about their rescue plan for Thames Water amount to nothing short of a cover - up . it be now crucial to raise this issue in the Chamber through a point of order . what step can I take to receive a response from the Department to my question ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give I notice of her point of order , and I be sure that all hon . and right hon . member , whether they be here or not , would agree that answer to parliamentary question should be give promptly . again , I know that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear her point of order . she may wish to take up any undue delay in ministerial answer with the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , who chair the Procedure Committee , which keep under review departmental performance on answer question . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) be lucky that the Chair of that Committee happen to be in the Chamber , and I can see that she have hear what the hon . Lady have have to say . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your assistance on a matter that many mp will understand through that bread and butter work that we do on behalf of our constituent . I have inform the Minister ' s office of my intention to raise this matter . last December the Minister for Armed Forces , the right hon . member for Wells ( James Heappey ) , say that he " would love to sit down with the hon . Lady to talk through the detail of the case . " — [ Official Report , 11 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 636 . ] those be the case of two constituent who be british citizen but whose family be stick in Pakistan , even though they serve in support of our armed force in Afghanistan . their family be at high risk of harm . I be yet to have that meeting with the Minister . indeed , the meeting have be cancel several time , and now my office have be tell that we probably need to wait until another Minister be appoint . I wonder whether the Secretary of State or Ministers could help . we all know that minister be busy and we understand that these thing be complicated , but this be a life - or - death situation for my constituent and I be at a loss as to how to assist they , four month on from the original query . can minister advise on how good to make progress ? can the hon . Lady just clarify in which Department the Minister sit ? the Ministry of Defence . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . she have successfully shine a light on what have happen in this instance . I see that there be a Defence Minister on the Treasury Bench , so I be sure that her comment will be feed back and hope that the meeting to which she refer can take place accordingly . I think she have achieve her objective of highlight the problem . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I sit through today ' s urgent question and listen to the various question raise on the supply of arm to Israel . it be clear that the Government be continue to supply arm to Israel , some of which will have be use in the attack on Gaza . some of those attack have be judge to be contrary to the International Court of Justice judgment and be potentially war crime . can I ask Mr Speaker to seek and publish legal advice on the legal responsibility of individual of this House in hold the Government to account to prevent complicity in those war crime , so that we be all aware of our responsibility and the role we have to play , as this Government receive their authority from this Chamber ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . he do not give I notice of it , so I have be unable to seek advice on the legal point he raise . I be unclear on whether he be ask Mr Speaker to publish legal advice . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I apologise ; I could not give notice of my point of order because it arise from the urgent question , which have only just conclude . I be ask Mr Speaker to seek legal advice on our behalf and to publish it , because it be important that we all know our legal responsibility in respect of the potential complicity of this Government in war crime . my initial response be that the Minister of State , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , have come here and answer a number of question on the issue that the right hon . Gentleman raise . the Minister be indicate that he may be able to help I out a little on legal advice . it feel highly unusual for Mr Speaker to seek legal advice on an issue affect the Government , because the Government obviously get their own legal advice . perhaps we could hear from the Minister before go any far . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who be an extremely experienced Member of the House , be seek — ingeniously — to continue debate on the subject of the urgent question . he know perfectly well that the Government operate under the rule of law . when it come to arm sale , the arm regime and the work of the arm inspection committee , all those matter be determine by the law of the land . when it come to international humanitarian law , the position be precisely the same : the Government take advice from the Law Officers , who be charge with advise we on these matter , and the Government act on that advice . rise — that be the point that I be try to make , but obviously the Minister , who I be sure often work with legal adviser , be able to make it much more coherently . I be not sure that we can pursue this much far . I will let the right hon . Gentleman have one more go , but I think that we will have reach the end of the questioning after this . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be not seek to extend the debate at all ; this be an incredibly serious point . the Minister just say that the Government be operate under the rule of law , but some of we believe that be not true any more , because of how the ICJ judgment be phrase . so we need advice as individual member , separate from the Government — and it be the Speaker ' s responsibility to ensure that we be properly advise — about our responsibility when we believe there be potential complicity in war crime . all I seek be that advice should be seek and publish . as I say , the Government perform within the legal advice that they receive , not least from the Attorney General . separate legal proceeding be go through the ICJ , and I do not think it be for member of the House to interfere in that process either . the right hon . Gentleman will know that individual member of the House have the right to seek legal advice . his comment will have be hear , and if there be anything further to be add to they , I know that the Clerks will advise we whether we should return to the matter , but I think his request for specific legal advice to the Speaker would be highly unusual . if I need to add anything to that , I assure he that I will come back to he . Bill present Football Governance Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Lucy Frazer , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary James Cleverly , Secretary David T . c . davy , John Glen and Stuart Andrew , present a Bill to establish the Independent Football Regulator ; to make provision for the licensing of football club ; to make provision about the distribution of revenue receive by organiser of football competition ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 187 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 187 - en ) . illegal and Unsustainable Fishing ( Due Diligence ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require supplier and retailer of fish and related product to establish and implement due diligence system to ensure that those product be not obtain from illegal or unsustainable fishing ; and for connected purpose . in recent year the House have extensively debate the disastrous loss of biodiversity and habitat around the world . our focus in do so have rightly be on the threat to forest — in particular , the major forest area in the Amazon , the Congo basin and south - east Asia — and on the implication of a situation where illegal deforestation to grow product such as palm oil and soy be do huge damage . the Government have do the right thing by be at the forefront of create legislative framework to help address the commercial exploitation of those forest risk product . the Environment Act 2021 create the first real framework require UK business to know where their supply come from and whether they come from area affect by illegal deforestation , although I would nudge Ministers — I see the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries in his place — about the need finally to sort out all the secondary legislation that go with that Act . however , illegal deforestation be not the only threat to biodiversity around the world . the loss of marine life and of marine ecosystem be as serious a priority for we all . the destruction of fish stock be nothing new : huge fishery in the Atlantic have be destroy through excessive level of catch over the past century ; massive stock of herring and cod off our shore have steadily disappear ; huge cod fishery off Canada suffer a similar fate ; and more recently the common fishery policy have fail to halt the pressure on fish stock , with politic often override scientific advice . but that excessive extraction of fish stock in a regulated environment be just one dimension of the problem face marine life . over the course of this Parliament , I have push for a rapid extension of the ban on bottom trawling in marine protect area around the United Kingdom . I be pleased that we be now free to change those practice , which be permit under the common fishery policy , and that the Government be make real progress on move away from an unacceptable situation , though there be still much to do on that front . the creation of highly protect marine area be also a major step forward as long as it be do in the right area , but even once the ban be in place I be in little doubt that rogue vessel will continue to push the rule to the limit and exceed they when no one be look . these new law will not stop the practice altogether . the frank reality be that illegal practice be a feature of fishery around the world . illegal , unreported and unregulated fishing be do massive damage — ironically , particularly to the small coastal community that depend on their fishery for their local economy . illegal operator have little regard for national or international law . they use illegal equipment , and they have no regard to whether the specie they be catch be endanger and protect , or whether it be a closed season . back those fleet up be refrigerate transport vessel and supply ship move vast quantity of catch to market around the world . in many maritime region of the world , IUU fishing have massively contribute to the depletion of fish stock , especially in develop country ' coastal water . one of the big problem area be west Africa , where IUU fishing account for an estimate 40 % of all fish catch and about 20 % of worldwide illegal fishing . apart from the environmental damage , it be estimate that the practice cost those coastal community in Africa billion of dollar a year . IUU fishing be practise in particular by China and Russia , and it tend to target specie that be already over - exploit by legal fishing or be subject to restriction . they target high - value specie such as cod , salmon , trout , lobster and prawn . the UK and the EU have tough rule on IUU fishing and system in place . import have to be properly certify , but it be generally accept that that do not stop fish from IUU vessel get into Europe . there be seldom enough enforcement available to prevent illegality from take place . one thing we learn when the Ukraine war start and we begin to put restriction in place be just how much of our white fish import be source from Russia ; less well know be how much come from China . those two country — together with Norway and Iceland — be by far the big supplier of fish to the UK , and they be the big global source of illegal , unreported and unregulated fishing . to be frank , we should not trust either country to be ensure that its fishing vessel conform to international norm and rule on good fishing practice . it be therefore right that we have a tight national regulatory regime and that it become tough still , but I do not believe that a regulatory regime should be the only weapon in our armoury to tackle IUU fishing , and indeed illegal fishing close to home . I believe that we need to take an additional step in protect fishery here and around the world , which be to place the same duty on retailer for fish source as we have for forest risk product . that mean have a mandatory system of due diligence for retailer , and particularly those buy their supply via third - party wholesaler and other intermediary , on which a big part of the industry depend . all we need those retailer to do in take their purchasing decision be to be clear that they know they be source their stock from trusted and reliable source and that they have a line of sight over their supply chain . that be what we be move to do with forest risk product , and we need it to apply to fish as well . I would like to see clear rule on the sustainability of UK fish stock in the revise fishing arrangement that will need to be put in place in the next Parliament , regardless of the EU approach , which all too often allow catch limit above scientific recommendation . when the new agreement be reach in the come year , there have to be a clear line that fishing must be sustainable in UK water . due diligence rule should then be apply to UK - source fish as well , particularly if there be a risk of illegal operation in marine protect area . I fear that , notwithstanding the change to the rule , we will see that in future . the purpose of the Bill be straightforward , and my proposal be very simple : we simply extend what we have already do in one area of critical biodiversity risk to another area — the future of our ocean . I be proud that this Government and this country be one of the first to address the issue of forest risk product and take action on the risk of those product come to the UK . I want we to go a step far and apply the same principle and the same rule to fish from illegal fishery around the world . I want we to be absolutely certain that when we buy fish in our shop , we know that we be not contribute to more unsustainable biodiversity loss in this country and elsewhere . with this Bill , we can protect our ocean and fishery and do the right thing for our environment . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Chris Grayling , Andrew Selous , Harriett Baldwin , Alex Sobel , Dr Matthew Offord , Ian Levy , Barry Gardiner and Trudy Harrison present the Bill . Chris Grayling accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 186 ) . trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Second Report of the Business and Trade Committee , UK accession to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership , HC 483 ; and oral evidence take before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee on 21 November 2023 , 6 February and 27 February 2024 , on UK trade policy : food and agriculture , HC 162 . ] New Clause 1 - report : accession of state to the cptpp " ( 1 ) before any decision be make by the Government of the United Kingdom on the accession of economy designate a ' threat ' or ' systemic challenge ' in the Integrated Review to the CPTPP under chapter 30 of the CPTPP , the Secretary of State must publish a report assess the impact of the accession of that economy on the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) both Houses of Parliament must be present with a motion for resolution on the report under subsection ( 1 ) . " — ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith . ) this new clause seek to ensure a parliamentary debate and decision on the UK ' s position towards the accession to the CPTPP of certain state present a threat or systemic challenge to the UK . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — assessment of impact of cptpp on deforestation and import of certain product — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report contain an assessment of the impact of the implementation of the CPTPP on — ( a ) the volume of UK import of palm oil ; ( b ) the volume of UK import of tropical wood ; ( c ) the rate of deforestation in Asia ; ( d ) the UK ' s ability to fulfil its obligation under — ( i ) the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ; and ( ii ) the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must be publish no early than a year and no later than 18 month after the passing of this Act . " new clause 3 — report on the impact and use of the Investor - State Dispute Settlement procedure — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report on the impact of the implementation of the Investor - State Dispute Settlement aspect of the Investment chapter of the CPTPP on the UK . ( 2 ) a report prepare under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) analysis of the likely use of the Investor - State Dispute Settlement procedure in relation to the UK , and the likely impact of such on the UK ; ( b ) detail of discussion hold with other signatory to the cptpp regard the use of the Investor - State Dispute Settlement procedure in relation to the UK ; and ( c ) discussion hold with , or agreement make with , other signatory to the cptpp regard the exclusion or exemption of the UK from any use of the Investor - State Dispute Settlement procedure . " new clause 4 — report : accession of new state to the CPTPP — " ( 1 ) before any decision be make by the Government on the accession of a new state to CPTPP under chapter 30 of the CPTPP , the Secretary of State must publish a report assess the potential benefit and impact of the accession of that candidate state on the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) both Houses of Parliament must be present with a motion for resolution on the report under subsection ( 1 ) . " new clause 5 — review : Investor - State Dispute Settlement — " the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a review of the financial risk of the implementation of the Investor - State Dispute Settlement aspect of the Investment chapter of the CPTPP , not more than 18 month after the day on which this Act be pass . " new clause 6 — impact assessment : environmental standard etc — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament an assessment of the impact of the implementation of the procurement Chapters of the CPTPP on — ( a ) environmental standard , ( b ) food standard , and ( c ) animal welfare standard . ( 2 ) an impact assessment under subsection ( 1 ) must be publish not less than two year , but not more than three year , after the day on which this Act be pass and every two year thereafter . " new clause 7 — report on business impact of cptpp — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish a plan outline the step be take to — ( a ) measure the impact on UK business of the implementation of the CPTPP ; and ( b ) support UK business to benefit from the UK ' s membership of the CPTPP . " new clause 8 — impact assessment : labour standard — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament an assessment of the impact of the implementation of the cptpp Labour Chapter not more than eighteen month after the day on which this Act be pass and every 18 month thereafter . ( 2 ) the impact assessment under subsection ( 1 ) must include an assessment of — ( a ) the impact on the Government ' s commitment to the convention of the International Labour Organisation ; ( b ) step that have be take to ensure adherence to the convention of the International Labour Organisation in CPTPP partner country ; and ( c ) how the experience and impact of implementation might inform negotiation of future trade agreement . " new clause 9 — comparative analysis of impact on UK business — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a report on the impact of the implementation of the CPTPP on the matter list in subsection ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) the report must include an analysis compare the respective situation for each of the matter list in subsection ( 3 ) prior to the implementation of the CPTPP with the situation post the implementation of the CPTPP . ( 3 ) the issue which must be include in the comparative analysis contain in the report lay under subsection ( 1 ) be — ( a ) tariff pay by UK business to bring in or remove item from the UK ; ( b ) cost of non - tariff border control measure pay by UK business to bring in or remove item from the UK ; ( c ) inflation in the UK ; ( d ) the extent of alignment of regulation relevant to UK business ; ( e ) the ability of UK business to trade with the EU ; ( f ) the implication for UK business of introduce new trade and climate regulation , include for carbon pricing ; ( g ) tariff and non - tariff cost face business trade with the EU ; and ( h ) trade volume for UK business trade with the EU . ( 4 ) within 10 day of a report be lay under subsection ( 1 ) the Government must schedule a debate on the finding of the report in each House . " new clause 10 — report on economic impact of implementation of CPTPP — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish a report on the economic impact of the implementation of the CPTPP . ( 2 ) a report publish under subsection ( 1 ) must include an analysis compare the respective situation for each of the matter list in subsection ( 3 ) prior to the implementation of the CPTPP with the situation post the implementation of the CPTPP . ( 3 ) the matter which must be include in the comparative analysis contain in the report lay under subsection ( 1 ) be — ( a ) the UK ' s trade in good ; ( b ) the UK ' s trade in service ; and ( c ) UK gdp . " this new clause would require the Government to publish a comparative analysis of the impact of the implementation of the CPTPP on UK trade and GDP . new clause 11 — impact assessment : new state accede to the CPTPP — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must prepare and publish a report assess the impact of the accession of new state to the CPTPP on the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) in respect of state that have submit a request to the Depositary of the CPTPP to join the CPTPP since 2019 , the Secretary of State must lay a report before both Houses of Parliament within three month of this Act come into force . ( 3 ) in respect of state submit a request to the Depository of the CPTPP to join the CPTPP follow the enactment of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay a report before both Houses of Parliament within three month of a request be make . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to provide an impact assessment on the accession of country that have make and will make a formal request to join the CPTPP . new clause 12 — impact assessment : UK performer ' right — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish an assessment of the impact of the implementation of performer ' right provision in the CPTPP . ( 2 ) the impact assessment under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) consideration of the impact of performer ' right provision on qualify individual in the UK ; ( b ) an assessment of the reciprocity of right across qualifying country ; ( c ) consultation with such person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . " this new clause would mean the Government must publish an assessment of the impact the performer ' right provision in the CPTPP will have on qualify individual in the UK . new clause 13 — Review of regulatory impact of implementation of the CPTPP treaty on UK business — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within one year of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report on the regulatory impact of the implementation of the CPTPP treaty on cost to export and import business in the UK . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must take account of the exist level of cost to export and import business arise from trade regulation . " this new clause would require the Government to report on the impact of implementation of the CPTPP treaty on the cost to business in the UK . the report would need to take the exist trade cost face such business into account . amendment 2 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may not be make before Government have move a substantive motion to resolve that the UK Accession Protocol should not be ratify . " Amendment 1 , in clause 5 , page 6 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) the Secretary of State must , after a period of three year from the passing of this Act , lie a report before Parliament contain an assessment of the impact of change make in this section . " it be a pleasure to speak to new clause 1 , which be sign by a cross - party group of MPs who all believe that Parliament should have the right to scrutinise trade deal . it seek to ensure appropriate parliamentary scrutiny of the UK ' s position toward the accession of economy that be designate — that word be very specific — as " threat " or " systemic challenge " . it would achieve two thing . first , the Government would be require to produce a report assess the impact of the economy ' s accession on the UK , and both Houses of Parliament would have a non - bind vote on the UK ' s position regard the accession of the economy in question . in other word , we would take the temperature of Parliament ' s view , even if it disagree with the Government . that be important , because the public need to know about it , so we should not be frightened of this . I thank my right hon . friend for introduce the new clause . some of we have be argue for parliamentary scrutiny of trade deal for the last four year . there be a mechanism in the form of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . be that not the well vehicle , because it have already pass ? it also offer a vote , theoretically , for we to be able to scrutinise our trade deal . I will come to that in a minute , because it do not , and that be the whole point of the new clause . in the 2023 integrated review refresh , the country define as threat be Russia , Iran and North Korea , while China be designate a systemic challenge . the new clause do not directly mention China , but of the eligible country under the current integrated review , China be the only economy that have apply to join . in fact it be theoretically next on the list to go into the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - pacific partnership . I completely understand the point my right hon . friend be try to make , but one of the interesting thing about be a member of CPTPP be that country then have a power of veto . that give we quite a lot of strength to potentially prevent China from join . I enjoy the idea that my hon . friend put such trust in Government never to take other arrangement into consideration . we know how that work . it will be fine today with my right hon . friend the Minister here , but there may be other in charge in future , and I be not sure I would always want to rest my defence in Ministers . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give way and for this new clause . be he as surprised as I be that when we ask the Secretary of State whether she would block China ' s accession to CPTPP she be unable to give we an unequivocal answer ? I think the right hon . Gentleman make my point . I sit in Government and all I can say to he be that one can not always say that Ministers will necessarily do the right thing ; rather , they will do the right thing by the Government , which be sometimes not the same . I do not mean to cast aspersion on my party ' s Government by any mean , but that have happen in the past . I simply want to make the point that China ' s potential accession have huge implication for all sort of thing , include because of its immense economic and political influence in the region and the pressure on the UK if we be almost isolated in our observation . China be not a likeminded party — there may be other country that be rather similar . it openly seek to revise the liberal , open and rule - base order and establish itself as a regional hegemon . if admit , it would be the large economy and dominant economic and trading partner in the cptpp , with unrivalled political influence . it could block a future US entry . as we join it be important for we to make way for the US and bring it in , which will help in a whole range of area . China ' s accession would help to cement Beijing ' s desire leadership in global trade . I will remind the House that China be next up for the cptpp , so this be not something conjure up . China ' s entry also risk far increase economic dependence on it , which be already too high , and build resilience into the chinese economy to weather sanctioning should tension over Taiwan escalate , which they almost certainly will . that would run counter to the UK ' s strategic effort to de - risk and maintain the status quo in the region . serious human right abuse be and continue to be embed within chinese supply chain . China be the most egregious offender in this regard , with its action on religion in Xinjiang and in Tibet , where slave labour be also practise . slave labour undercut the World Trade Organisation and normal trade . those be good commercial reason why the membership of any country with the view China happen to have would have a real impact . China ' s accession be unlikely to drive economic reform in the country . there be no political ability to drive such reform under President Xi , who have move China far away from the spirit of the CPTPP on labour right protection . I have just return from lead a parliamentary delegation to Lithuania , where my right hon . friend be talk about by many lithuanian politician . they mention the lead role he be take in warn western democracy about the conduct of the Chinese Communist Government . do my right hon . friend agree that Lithuania be a very interesting case for we to study , so that we can perhaps learn from how a european country confront and take on the increasingly nefarious conduct of the chinese Communist party ? it be always kind to be refer to in another country , which lead I to wonder whether I should stand there . [ interruption . ] I need no encouragement from those on the Opposition Benches , thank you very much . my hon . friend be quite right ; Lithuania be a tiny country , but rather bravely it have recognise Taiwan and it have come under the cosh from China as a result . I thank he for that intervention . as I say , this be not a pipe dream . China apply to join the CPTPP on 16 September 2021 , and be next in line . it be widely report that Beijing be already lobby hard for membership , and that country previously oppose have soften their line . Australia have do so because it have have trade problem , as we know . all that be require for chinese accession be for other member to permit it . the current labour regulation would seem to preclude China ' s accession , but the risk be there and we should not take it . an actor - agnostic approach — link to the integrated review rather than name any specific actor — would also enable the Government to create a threshold that be reflexive to development rather than static . that would mean that a report , debate and vote would be require only where the integrated review have designate specific economy as threat or systematic challenge . the language in the review be weak in its own right , but none the less it be there . I want to deal with the CRaG process quickly . the new clause be in line with the Government policy , but expose a loophole in the CRaG process . there be currently no provision for a debate and non - bind vote on future accession to plurilateral trade agreement . the process would not require the Government to produce an impact report on China ' s accession to the CPTPP , nor would it provide for a parliamentary debate or vote . give the long - term significance to the UK of be in a plurilateral trade agreement where the big partner be China , it be appropriate for Parliament to be furnish with an up - to - date , accurate report , and to have the opportunity to consider the matter — after all , there be no other reason why we be here if not to discuss such important matter . the right hon . Gentleman make a good point about some of the weakness of CRaG and the need to strengthen it , particularly when there be accession or other material change to a treaty to which we be a member . the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , which I sit on , have publish a report that outline some of the change to the way that the Government operate under CRaG . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that we need to change it so that significant change to treaty and accession should always automatically be subject to a report and potential vote in this House ? otherwise , we will sign ourselves up to thing without know what will happen far along the line . I agree . I be not so certain about this , so I look at what Lord Lisvane , the one - time chief Clerk in the House , say about it . he produce a note on it , which I quote : " the issue , as I recall , be whether a Motion to approve the PRC ' s accession could be amend . Commons S . o . no 24B say that when a Motion in neutral term ( in the judgement of the Chair ) be table , no amendment to it may be table . I think this would probably rule out seek to amend a simple ' take note ' or ' have consider ' Motion . " I want to emphasise that it be not true that a motion to take note can be amend — that be use in the other place as a defence . the CRaG process do not provide for a vote ; it do not even guarantee a debate . that be why the new clause be need . under UK trade policy , it be not unusual for bilateral trade agreement to be subject to parliamentary approval — free trade agreement be routinely subject to it . in response to criticism of the CRaG process in 2021 , the Grimstone rule be establish , whereby the Government agree in principle to allow time to debate prospective fta where the International Agreements Committee have publish a report . I happen to believe that there be Ministers who be keen and happy to have debate — I mention no name , but that be the case . however , I know that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office absolutely oppose they , because it hate to have any serious debate about its prerogative . I be pleased that the right hon . Gentleman be keen on debate . on that basis , I invite he to sign my prayer against this treaty , to urge the Government to give we a debate on the treaty as a whole . I ask the right hon . Gentleman not to tempt I beyond my new clause . I always happy to look at this issue , and I believe in debate . it be vital , otherwise government be never hold to account . it be important to emphasise that once the Bill be pass , the CRaG process can not be apply to future accession . I be aware that it be against long - stand UK policy to tie the Government ' s hand on trade . that be why the vote provide for in the new clause would not be bind . that allow the Government to take note of the debate and perhaps change policy in due course . article 30 . 4 of the CPTPP agreement explicitly provide that accession may be " subject to . . . the applicable legal procedure of each Party and accede State or separate custom territory ( accession candidate ) . " the UK ' s procedure already allow for some parliamentary scrutiny . there be no legal basis to argue that enhance scrutiny would impact the UK ' s accession . the UK be not alone ; other government have speak freely in the past about their opposition to China ' s accession — in particular , key UK ally Japan and Australia . Australia state that it would not endorse China ' s application while Beijing continue to block the import of australian good include wine and barley . that be a matter for Australia to debate . it have join Canada , Japan and New Zealand in condemn China ' s economic coercion . despite a little soften in its line , Australia be still warn that there be no chance China would join in the near term . Japan , a country that have be most astute in deal with China economically , continue to see China ' s application as fundamentally geopolitical . Japan ' s Minister of Finance state : " China . . . be far remove from the free , fair and highly transparent world of TPP , chance that it can join be close to zero " . he say that China ' s application " can be think of as a move to prevent Taiwan from join . " Taiwan , by the way , be second up . for those who do not know , it be not about country but economy , which be why Taiwan can bid to join the cptpp even if its status as a nation be not recognise by everyone . my right hon . friend be highlight the various concern about China ' s conduct and why it should not join the CPTPP . do he agree that the conduct of the Chinese Government in the South China sea — a waterway through which 60 % of the world ' s trade pass — where it have steal hundred of atoll from Vietnam , Philippines , Malaysia , Indonesia and other , be also a cause for concern ? it be , although I can not follow my hon . friend through Lithuania and the atoll of the far east , because I would be rule out of order by the Chair . I hope he will forgive I , but he make a strong point . I say gently to the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , that it be a Labour Member , Lord Leong , who table the amendment in Committee in the Lords . Labour say that it would whip for the amendment if it be rework to not mention China . strangely , the new clause do not mention China , so I would have hope that Labour would support it , but it do not . I understand that Labour have table its own new clause . Parliament should be able to make its voice hear on a matter of such national significance . the new clause do not overturn constitutional convention by a long way . have a report , a debate and a non - bind vote would not determine Government policy , but it would determine the House ' s view on the element of this particular trade deal . I note that opposition new clause 4 also seek to look at this , but there be other issue that I will not bring up now . there be element in the Government who believe that debate be not a bad thing , because it allow they to make their case for why such a trade deal be important . I urge the Government to be positive about this , because be positive about debate in the House of Commons be a restatement of democracy . it allow people to decide whether they agree . more importantly , this be about accession . if those who follow we in seek to join the treaty be define as a threat , as they be in the review , that will at least inform the Government . it will also allow the House to pressure the Government over its real concern about what they might be do . in future , a Government from either side of the House or of whatever form may choose , under pressure from China over economic issue , to let it accede to the treaty . who know ? I do not say that that be the mood , but it be for Back Benchers to make their point about what the Government should do and for they to take note . in that regard , I commend my new clause to the House . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . I will speak in support of new clause 1 , which he table , as well as the new clause table in the name of my right hon . and hon . friend . I welcome this debate and the new clause and amendment that have be table , but I lament the fact that we have not be permit a full debate on the treaty — something the right hon . Gentleman argue for very eloquently . we need a debate today not merely on the three chapter of the CPTPP cover by the Bill , but on the full 30 chapter of the treaty , with all the associate annexe and bit of analysis and argument . I do not want to detain the House for very long , because the Business and Trade Committee go to the length of writing and publish a report early this year . however , I want to underline the point about the lack of scrutiny . of course , it be the Government themselves , in the Grimstone rule , who say that no new free trade agreement would be ratify by his Majesty ' s Government without a full debate on whether we should agree to they . when I ask the Secretary of State on 23 January whether she would agree to a debate under the term of the CRaG process , she say she would be " happy to support " such a debate . her official then write to the Clerks on the Select Committee to say that such a debate have be request , only to be tell by the Leader of the House that no time be available . the Leader of the House confirm that in writing to I last week in a letter in which she say : " it have not be possible to find time for a debate in Government time . " the House of Lords be have a debate on the treaty today on the recommendation of the International Agreements Committee , so why can ' t we ? be we second - class representative in this House ? be we unqualified to have a debate on all 30 chapter of the treaty ? be we not qualified to speak , on behalf of the people we come into public life to represent , about how the treaty will affect their future ? I think we be . I think we should have a debate on the full treaty . and I can not believe that we be out of time . member will have see the report in the Financial Times last week , which say that the work day in this Chamber " have be short on average this parliamentary session than in any other in the past quarter century " . be we seriously say that we have not be able to find time for a debate , which it be the Government ' s policy to support , on one of the only free trade agreement that his Majesty ' s Government have be able to bring forward since we leave the European Union ? on Twitter , the Minister — I be a keen follower of the Minister on Twitter , he will be pleased to hear — say last week that there have be four parliamentary debate on the treaty , but I wonder if he be sure about that . when I ask the Clerks on the Select Committee to check that , they be leave scratch their head a little bit . they could not find all four that the Minister refer to . we have to accept that there be no shortage of controversy in the Bill , not least because the Secretary of State herself resile from the figure that describe the benefit of the treaty to the country . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for give way . it be a pleasure to serve on the Committee with he . I think I might just throw a bone in the form of cross - party support on this point . have a debate be not just about point out controversy ; it be about have the opportunity to justify and debate thing about which our constituent care . these trade deal make a difference not only to the business , but to the service and agriculture sector in our respective constituency . that be why it be damage not to have a debate : it fail to allow we the opportunity to persuade people that trade deal can be a force for good . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right and I commend his contribution both to the Committee and to the report that we publish on the cptpp early this year . there be a number of important new clause and amendment not only about the future expansion plan of the cptpp and what our policy on those might look like , but also , in the name of my right hon . and hon . friend , about investor - state dispute settlement . this be important because in all the fanfare , argument and passionate bit of literature and speech offer by the Government about the virtue of the treaty , it be always position as a gateway to the fast - grow economy on Earth that will represent a significant fraction of economic growth in the future . of course , what be often miss from those eloquent description be a recognition that the country in the CPTPP represent only about a fifth , at good , of the Indo - Pacific region . we be surely right to worry that there could well be a Government drive to expand the orbit of the treaty to a much wide group of nation . if the Government really want to take aim at the big economy on Earth , they may well encourage China to join . however , when I ask the Secretary of State whether it be her policy to agree to or block China ' s accession , she say that that be not something we could discuss on the Floor of the House or in the Select Committee . that be why safeguard be need . we might even be so bold as to merely ask for a little bit of clarity on the Government ' s future strategy . that be why the amendment on the future pathway of the treaty be so important and why I hope we will have a vote on some aspect of that today , even if it be not on the new clause table by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green . I will talk briefly about new clause 3 , which relate to ISDS . it be important , because his Majesty ' s Government have agree side letter with a number of country to take we out of the ISDS process . that be not an exemption or safeguard that we see when it come to agree to the treaty , yet the treaty include country such as Canada — I think we be just about on fraternal term with Canada at the moment ; we may have fail to agree an FTA with it , but quite why be a matter of some dispute between the Canadian Government and the Secretary of State . Canada be home to some of the big pension fund investor on the planet and we know that those fund be especially litigious . although the Minister be right , when he answer these question in early conversation , to say we have never lose an ISDS case , the reality be that many fear there will be a chilling effect on the regulation we bring forward because of a fear of the peril of isds procedure . my right hon . friend be speak very well on some of the new clause I have table on ISDS . it be of course true that get the side letter for all member state be good enough for New Zealand , so it be protect more — not fully protect , I grant he . if it be good enough for New Zealand , it should have be good enough for we . be it not a sign that minister have lack ambition , or be it a sign of complacency ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . perhaps it be because we do not want to overly annoy the Canadians , but the truth be that the talk with the Canadians have break down — at a cost , by the way , to the UK automotive industry . in fact , UK car will be hit on average by a £ 3 , 000 tariff in about a month or two , because of the breakdown of those talk . it be important for we to have a vote on why we do not have those procedure , why we do not have those safeguard and why we do not have those side letter . finally , I want to underline the point make by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green . as a House , we must become far more skilled , far more ready and far more adroit at debate the kind of treaty we will be ask to sign . once upon a time , when the Berlin wall come down , we promise ourselves that we could look forward to a new world of free trade , and we hope that that free trade could bring political progress and a democratic process — wandel durch Handel , as the Germans like to say . however , that reality be now smash ; that era end with the second invasion of Ukraine . we be now in new time , when we have to debate not just military security but economic security , and economic security question be always freight with dilemma . we be a small nation and our adversary be big , so we must always act with our ally , but not all our ally be good , and many of our friend would prefer not to pick a side . our adversary plan for self - sufficiency , but we can not . we prefer open , free trade , but global supply chain be risky . we like market to decide , but security always require state action . we know that we need to work proactively to shape the long term , but democracy frequently entail a short - term change of Government , and too often our politic be reactive . there be no right answer to these dilemma . together , we will have to find way of navigate they . do we act alone or together ? should we be open or closed ? can we act in the short term , or do we need to think for the long term ? do we use carrot or stick ? be this a broad canvas of action , or do we need a target approach ? these be question that be hard to answer , but unless we debate they in the House , we will not grow the skill and the experience to make good and wise decision for the future . that be why we need a debate on the CPTPP treaty under the CRaG process . today ' s debate be important , but it be second good . it be always a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . I rise to echo the comment make so eloquently and clearly by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , and to add just a few comment of my own . I have always be in favour of the CPTPP , and , as I say from the Front Bench in 2019 , " it be absolutely essential , particularly give the rise of protectionism globally , that we commit ourselves to a rule - base system base on the WTO . of course , we have ability to augment that by other regional relationship , which be why we have have the public consultation and the debate in Parliament about the potential accession to the CPTPP " . — [ Official Report , 6 June 2019 ; Vol . 661 , c . 250 . ] I have also always believe that the benefit of the CPTPP have be at least as much about geopolitic as about simple import and export number . as the Royal United Services Institute put it , " join the cptpp provide the UK with not just economic benefit , but the mean to help define and defend a rule - base order in the face of China ' s diplomatic and economic heft . " at a time of tense relation between China and the United States , the United Kingdom have join a trade agreement in which neither be present , although the United States be instrumental in its creation — a point to which I shall return later . the March 2023 integrate review refresh describe the Indo - Pacific as " critical to the UK ' s economy , security and our interest in an open and stable international order . development there will have disproportionate influence on the global economy , supply chain " — that be mention by the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill — " strategic stability and norm of state behaviour . " the CPTPP , in turn , be about a contribution to the stability of the global trade and investment system . within that debate , what do we perceive China ' s security threat to the UK to be ? in their reply to a report from the Intelligence and Security Committee , in a section entitle " the Strategic Context " , the Government state : " China almost certainly maintain the large state intelligence apparatus in the world . the nature and scale of the Chinese Intelligence Services be — like many aspect of China ' s government — hard to grasp for the outsider , due to the size of the bureaucracy , the blurring of line of accountability between party and state official , a partially decentralise system , and a lack of verifiable information . " they also state : " the Chinese Intelligence Services target the UK and its overseas interest prolifically and aggressively . while they seek to obtain classified information , they be willing to utilise intelligence officer and agent to collect open source information indiscriminately — give the vast resource at their disposal … to compound the problem , it be not just the Chinese Intelligence Services : the Chinese Communist Party co - opt every state institution , company and citizen . this ' whole - of - state ' approach mean China can aggressively target the UK " — and UK interest , wherever those interest be globally . sadly , we have discover that to our cost in many of our governmental institution here . the question , give all that , be this : could China actually be admit to the CPTPP , and if it be theoretically possible , how likely be it ? I think it instructive to look first at the experience of the World Trade Organisation , a brief that my right hon . friend the Minister and I share over several year of my extremely enjoyable time work with he at the Department for International Trade . when China accede to the WTO in 2001 , the west see it as promise and promote economic and political reform . it be a time of great optimism that the chinese communist system could be pull in a direction that would be advantageous to , and in the interest of , the west . however , Jiang Zemin , the chinese leader at the time , claim that the motive of the United States in all this be to " westernise and divide socialist country " . thus the WTO itself be head for a stalemate in its direction of travel almost from the point at which China accede to it . this have add to other WTO problem — and I mention that because we need to look at the cptpp within the wide trading framework . the WTO ' s problem have be compound by its adoption of the concept of unanimity , while its rule talk about consensus . if consensus and unanimity mean the same thing , there would not be two different word for it in the found document . this have mean that virtually any country in the WTO now exercise a right of veto , which have prevent we from move forward in what we perceive to be a process of genuine liberalisation of global trade . I apologise for interrupt my right hon . friend ' s excellent speech . the key be , we be tell at the time , that the move would change China , and that persuade the Government , but what we have find be that China be now change the term of the debate , because it have not change at all — it have get bad . be that not a very good reason why we need to debate these issue whenever we can ? my right hon . friend be entirely right . as I observe at the time , President Clinton take the view that the treaty be the good hope that the west have of pull China into a much more market - orientated , rule - base economy , where we could gain the benefit of a more liberal , global economy , but that be not how it turn out . we have have only one multilateral treaty since the WTO be create , the 2017 trade facilitation agreement . there be a hierarchy of agreement that we can secure in term of liberalisation . a multilateral agreement be the good , but give the effective veto that country have , that be unlikely , and it be very unlikely to give we the benefit that we would like to see , especially the liberalisation of trade in service . the next good be a plurilateral agreement , the next good after that be a regional agreement , and then we be down to what some people would unkindly describe as the bargain basement of bilateral fta . all those be useful in create a more liberal global trading environment . however , if China be to seek to join the CPTPP , it would need to commit itself to liberalisation in line with CPTPP requirement , which would require a reduced role for the chinese state . if anyone who keep an eye on current affair think that the chinese state be tend in the direction of a small influence , they be watch different news outlet from the one that I be watch . China could , of course , seek a bespoke agreement to join the CPTPP , but the UK have already set the precedent by join on current term . even if China could join the CPTPP , could it be trust to meet any of the condition of accession ? although chinese leader have declare their willingness to meet the condition , many country be extremely sceptical , give China ' s behaviour as a WTO member . China have a poor record when it come to comply with WTO rule and observe the fundamental principle of non - discrimination , openness , reciprocity , fairness and transparency on which the WTO agreement be base . China ' s subsidy over capacity , intellectual property theft and protectionist non - market policy exacerbate distortion in the global economy , and — even more worryingly — China ' s use of trade as a tool of coercive diplomacy have raise concern far , especially give its behaviour towards Australia and Japan . this be not the sort of partner we should be wish to join we in the cptpp , unless there be previously unimagined change in behaviour . finally , a word , if I may , beyond this Chamber to our US colleague : I believe that the decision to leave the CPTPP by the United States be a mistake . it remove from United States policymaker a tool in its strategic ability to shape event in the region . UK accession provide an opportunity for the United States to seek to join this new grouping and gain great direct influence over China trade relation with the fast grow economic zone in the world . these be all reason why we must keep a very close eye on what happen with China and our new membership of the CPTPP . we have gain a great deal ; we can not afford to have it throw away , by ourselves or by other . we now come to a maiden speech ; I call Damien Egan . it be with great pleasure that I rise to give my maiden speech as we speak to this Bill , which aim to boost international trade and economic growth . stimulate growth and trade be vital to my constituent in Kingswood , as it create new job and be ultimately about how we fund our public service . as be traditional in a maiden speech , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Chris Skidmore . I learn during the campaign that there be a reason why Chris ' s vote would go up every time he stand for election . throughout the by - election campaign , people talk very warmly about Chris ; he be describe as be " a good man " and someone drive by value — a double - edged sword , some might say — but perhaps most importantly as someone who care . I hear about some really complicated piece of casework , where Chris have personally give a lot of his time to get people the help they need , so I would like to place on record my thank to Chris for his 14 year of service to the people of Kingswood . Kingswood have four mp before Chris . Roger Berry be a tireless campaigner — in fact , he still be — for disability right . he bring forward the Civil Rights ( Disabled Persons ) Bill in 1993 , which galvanise support for future legislation that make discrimination against disabled people illegal . Kingswood ' s three other mp be Rob Hayward , Jack Aspinwall and Terry Walker . on my second day here , when I get into my office , the first letter I receive be from Terry Walker . if you be listen , Terry , thank you . I have be ask by some member , " so where exactly be Kingswood ? " Kingswood lie on the eastern side of Bristol , and I would say that more people than not would say that they live in Bristol . it be a suburban collection of town and village that stretch from the edge of the city and extend into beautiful countryside . Kingswood have an interesting story . in medieval time it serve as a royal hunting ground : quite literally , the King ' s wood . in the 18th century it be a thriving home for worker from nearby coalmine , and it be at that time that John Wesley be encourage to deliver his very first outdoor sermon — in Kingswood . I must be one of thousand of child over the year who at primary school be take to the site of those sermon , Hanham Mount , where today a spire green beacon illuminate the spot where Wesley once preach . in the early 20th century , Kingswood host the large motorbike factory in the world , the Douglas motorbike factory , where 25 , 000 motorbike be make to support the military in world war one . in one of those quirky bit of history — this do catch I out in a radio interview — legend have it that Kingswood host an elephant burial when Nancy , who be part of a travel menagerie , die of yew leaf poisoning . I be tell that archaeologist be investigate . be elect in a by - election towards the end of a Parliament do focus the mind ; you have to think about make your moment count . indeed , Rishi could still call a surprise election tomorrow ! so I think , Mr Speaker , that as well as give you a little bit of information about Kingswood itself , I would also share what the people of Kingswood tell I during the campaign , which I hope include issue that be pertinent to all member , whichever party in this Chamber they represent . the first thing to say be that people tell I that family life have become much hard . I speak to parent who tell I that they be stress and exhausted . People be do all the right thing — work hard , put in extra hour , pay the bill — but they tell I time and again that they feel like they be just exist through life , and not live it . it be not as though people be ask for a lot , but when you work hard , you ought to be able to feel secure for the future . you should be leave with enough money to enjoy life — to pay for meal out , order that occasional takeaway , plan nice trip for the child or book a family holiday . I be sure that no one here would think that be a lot to ask for , but I have to tell you , Mr Speaker , that for an increase number of work people in Kingswood , those be now out - of - reach luxury . People tell I that they feel that they be pay more , but get less . we do not have a single nhs dentist accept new patient , not just in Kingswood , but anywhere in the entire Bristol area , and it be so hard to get in at the doctor ' . I speak to a woman who have to call her doctor 117 time before she get through , only to be tell , " we ' re full up today . call back tomorrow . " there be a lot of sympathy for the challenge that the Government have face — not just all the different Prime Ministers , but covid and Ukraine — and the pressure that those thing have put on the public finance , but people want to see we do well with the money that we have . People tell I that they do not feel safe , and that they do not see enough police . interestingly , I speak to a long - serve police officer who say he be frustrate because increase bureaucracy mean that he be sit behind his desk , when in his word , he " join the police to catch criminal . " bus cut be mention , as whole area of Bristol now do not have any bus . that be great news for our taxi driver , who work very hard drive people all around the city , but of course not everyone can afford a taxi . the decline of the high street come up a lot in the campaign . Kingswood have change so much since I be grow up , and it be sad to see . there be hope , though ; the council plan some investment , which I hope really kickstart the improvement that many of we want to see . also high up on the list of thing that people mention be apprenticeship and opportunity for well - pay work . Kingswood use to be a hub for apprenticeship . my dad be an apprentice — one of 140 in his year , all from local school — but his generation ' s grandchild do not have the same volume of opportunity to go straight from school into the workplace , and we all miss out on skill as a result . when it come to education generally , South Gloucestershire school be the lowest fund in the country . why ? those be some of the concern that be mention . it be obviously not an exhaustive list ; I could have dedicate a whole speech to pothole . there be some national concern too , include immigration , and real worry about how , in a rapidly change world with grow threat to peace , we do all we can to invest in and support our armed force . I speak to soldier who be look for second job , and the wife of one tell I that some of her husband ' s equipment be hold together with gaffer tape . a winter by - election be week and week of knock on cold , wet door — and many colleague join I . for I , it be a privilege to have so many real , honest , normal conversation , which be so far remove from the angry online echo chamber . it be a reminder that the social medium bubble that have become so dominant do not reflect mainstream Britain and the everyday challenge that people face . I hope to give you a little flavour of Kingswood — not just the place , but the people — and I will leave you with this : there be a reason why Kingswood usually pick the winner at every general election . Kingswood be a representative voice of decent british people who work hard and play by the rule , love their family , and just want the good for their child . our job be to make sure that the country to which they give so much give they a good future in return . rise — let we remain in the south - west . I call Anthony Mangnall . it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) , and may I congratulate he on his maiden speech ? it be somewhat frustrating , as one of the young member on the conservative side of the House , to find new member turn up who look fresher , healthy and readier for the fight . he also manage to unify the House when talk about pothole ; I do not think he will find any disagreement on that subject . he come to this place with a huge amount of experience , not just from fight other seat , but have be Mayor of Lewisham , where he do extraordinary work on community land trust that member from across the House have comment on and would like to follow in our constituency . I be sure that his family be somewhere in the Gallery and will be proud of his maiden speech . he have do very well . I would like to make a few remark about CPTPP , the tongue - twister that seem to have make many member of this place fall sideways . we should start by recognise what the United Kingdom have manage to do over the last four year . we have recognise the global ambition of fulfil our trade objective . we have succeed in join CPTTP , but we have also secure deal with Japan , Australia , New Zealand , Norway , Iceland and Liechtenstein , as well as join the Singapore digital partnership . I spend my life repeat the fact that we have make those deal ; it be important that we recognise their true value , not just to GDP , but to business , the economy , the environment and business people across the United Kingdom and , indeed , the world . it show that we be determined to fulfil our promise and commitment to sign deal to bolster our position in the world . of course , negotiation be also under way with the Gulf Co - operation Council , Israel and other . in join CPTTP , we be sign a deal with the fast - grow region in the world . now that we have tariff - free trade relation , the UK be set to increase trade with the country in CPTTP by £ 37 billion by 2030 . it be a market worth £ 110 billion to UK trade . with growth at 8 % between 2016 and 2019 , UK membership be only expect to boost that figure . conservative figure — I say " conservative " because I feel that they be underestimate — suggest that there will be a £ 1 . 8 billion increase to GDP and an £ 800 million boost to take - home pay for worker . additionally , estimate be that trade with the 11 member will increase by an average of 65 % , with the west midland , Scotland and Northern Ireland benefit most , so I look forward to hear the SNP ' s point of view , and whether it will support the Bill . as have already be mention , the point of this deal be that it allow we to have tariff - free trade in good . CPTPP have new product regulation , expand our role and opportunity for service , and ensure mobility for business people . Digital trade will be enhance and intellectual property enshrine , with benchmark create by the United Kingdom , and the CPTPP have sustainability at its core . however , I would like to focus my remark on new clause 1 and 4 . it have be my cause , war or campaign — however one want to phrase it — over the last four year that Parliament should do well on our trade agreement . we should spend more time scrutinise and debate they . it be always a source of frustration that when we have debate on trade , so few people show up . the ability of this House to explain the value of a trade deal to our constituent , to justify its economic value and to talk about the potential security risk be diminish when we do not have opportunity on the Floor of the House to discuss the merit or demerit of any trade agreement . I disagree with new clause 1 and 4 not because I be be belligerent , or because the whip have I under the cosh , but because we need to focus on reform the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . Parliament can not opine on every single international treaty . my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) make a point about whether accession to CPTTP should be debate on the Floor of the House . there could be no limit to that , but he do not explain — I will let he intervene if he want to — how he would get around the royal prerogative issue ; international trade agreement be not in the hand of Parliament , but in the hand of Government Ministers . that be not consider in his remark . I agree . I could have take this even far , but my point be that the Foreign Office dislike any idea of debate and discussion . however , we have a Trade Department , which need to be imbue with the power to ensure that debate happen . I be completely in favour of just punch through the nonsense and the poor use of the prerogative . I understand that , but I feel that punch through on this occasion would be the wrong approach . I agree with my right hon . friend that the Foreign Office ' s appetite for we debate these issue in this place should not matter one jot , because it be our right as parliamentarian to discuss free trade agreement and whether they work . respectfully , I say that the mechanism for ensure that we get well trade agreement , and can be reassure about their economic value and benefit to the british people and our national security , have to be achieve by upgrade the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) make an excellent point when he refer to the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee report ' s recommendation on enshrine a methodology to ensure that CRaG operate within 21 sitting day , and that a meaningful vote be hold at the end of that period . if that be ever to take place , it would be meaningful , because it would delay the signing of any free trade agreement by 21 day . the hon . Gentleman make a very good point about the need to change CRaG ; we mention that need in our report . our report make it clear that a lot of change do not necessarily need legislation , but they do need a change of approach from the Government . there should be a clear commitment make at the Dispatch Box that debate will always be call when there be significant interest in a subject , and particularly when there be commitment around new accession . if the Government make those commitment , it would be enough , but they be still not forthcoming . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the Minister should stand at the Dispatch Box today and give those commitment , so that we can move forward with some certainty ? the hon . Gentleman and I serve for a long time on the International Trade Committee , as it be previously know , and I should start my response to he by pay enormous credit to the Secretary of State , who come in front of the Committee a number of time , and who write to the Leader of the House to ask for time to debate CPTTP within the CRaG period . I be afraid that my ire and irritation at our not have secure that time must now be focus on the Leader of the House , but the hon . Gentleman be right to say there be simple step that we can take to make sure that this House be properly brief on these issue . one of they — I absolutely declare my interest — would be to give Privy Counsellor status to member of the Business and Trade Committee . I do not think anyone would disagree with that suggestion . it would certainly be a very popular move , and when it have be mention in the Committee , it have be welcome with open arm . I be glad that it have the approval of the House . but , in all seriousness , there have to be a set process and the CRaG mechanism allow we that opportunity if do properly . it be there and it must be reform , regardless of who be in government . it be in the interest of the entire House to amend and implement CRaG . I fully agree with my hon . friend ' s wide purpose , but I come back to the point that Lord Lisvane make very clearly , which be that we still do not have the ability to debate the entry of a security risk country . he point out that CRaG do not do that because of its nature . I agree with my hon . friend ' s wide point that CRaG must be reform , but we have a Bill go through the House at the moment and this be a well time to at least get a foothold in that debate rather than say that we will do it another time . I really do accept the point that my right hon . friend make — how could I disagree when he be make that absolutely essential argument on national security . but what he be ask for might be view in very different term by the other 11 member of the CPTPP . there be standard to join the CPTPP in the first place that would prevent China from join unless it improve its act . he have talk about the lessening of appetite in place such as Australia for China to join . I be not sure whether that be the case , but there be a standard within the cptpp that would prevent China from join , and as my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) have already remark , we have a veto in this instance . I think this be more about ensure that we have a debate and a vote in this place on the value of a trade agreement . if we be worried about a new accession to the CPTPP , it be for we to make that case to the Secretaries of State in the Foreign Office and the Department for Business and Trade , and for they to go back to the other 11 country and make the case in that way . I welcome almost everything that the hon . Gentleman — my hon . friend — be say , he and I have work together a lot on this issue , but the reality be that other country in the CPTPP have arrangement that allow their Parliaments to have deliberation on significant treaty change and on the incoming of new member . we be talk not about the CPTPP arrangement but about our arrangement for authorise our government to go ahead and agree . surely he must agree that it would not undermine the cptpp if we be to make our own arrangement on how we be to instruct our Government . forgive I if it sound trite to say that I worry about mission creep , but if we do that on this , might we not also do it for the World Health Organisation , or for any other body that might be under suspicion of have some adverse state actor involve in it ? I worry about how we go about this . I worry about Parliament always try to have a say and slow the process of how our trade agreement be sign and ratify . we need to be efficient and quick in the way we do it , but we must also ensure that we have the opportunity for debate , as we have today in this debate on the merit of the three chapter in the Bill . I want to end with a parting shot . as have be mention by the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , we be tell that we would have the opportunity to debate the full 30 chapter of the CPTPP within CRaG , and it be disappointing that we do not have that . the government — the Secretary of State and the Minister — have do an amazing job in engage with the Committee , but this be a serious disappointment . it lessen the progress that have be make to date on sign new trade agreement and ensure that this place have a say on our future . I stand to speak to new clause 12 , which stand in my name , and also to new clause 11 and 13 . I would like to begin by state once again that the liberal Democrats want to see an ambitious trade policy aim at create opportunity for british firm around the world and new job here in our country . the Bill and our accession to the CPTPP be a step in that direction . the point have be well make , in this House and in the other place , that the projection in the Government ' s own impact assessment be for gdp growth of just 0 . 06 % by 2040 , so although the UK ' s accession to the trading bloc can and should be welcome , the cause for celebration be limited . I would like to speak to three new clause that aim to address some key issue with the Bill and the UK ' s accession . new clause 12 would require the Government to publish an assessment of the impact of the CPTPP ' s performer ' right provision . we know the worry of our creative industry surround the Bill . the lack of reciprocal agreement for UK artist in CPTPP country leave our creative expose . the UK be rightly proud of our world - lead creative industry and we should also be proud of a world - lead intellectual property regime . we must be sure that this Bill and this trade deal do nothing to jeopardise that . there be a need for clarity and certainty in this area , and that be why I table new clause 12 , which I hope member will support . new clause 13 would require the Government to conduct a review examine how the implementation of the treaty affect the cost face by export and import business in the UK . that report would have to consider the exist cost that those business be already face as a result of trade regulation . we know that the stated ambition of the Government be that the deal will minimise red tape and trade regulation when trade with other CPTPP country , which be a welcome goal . however , the British Chambers of Commerce have find that almost two fifth of business list regulation and red tape as a significant barrier to export . we need to be assure that our business will be support to trade and flourish . with that in mind , it will be worth while , after our accession , to take the time to assess how the deal and the wide trade regulation landscape be affect british business . that be the purpose of new clause 13 . it be clear that the CPTPP will likely grow over time as new country join and accede to the deal , which will bring new opportunity but may also pose risk . the potential accession of China be one example , and the concern regard that possibility have be well discuss by colleague in this Chamber and the other place . new clause 11 would require the Government to provide an impact assessment on the accession of country that have make , and will make , a formal request to join the CPTPP . this will allow we to have a clear and informed vision of what the accession of each new country would mean for the UK . I believe this would be a reasonable and common - sense measure . I finish by echo what have already be say about parliamentary scrutiny . it be welcome that we be have this debate today but , in reality , we be debate a very limited and narrow Bill . we need proper parliamentary scrutiny of trade deal , and I ask the Government to ensure that it happen in future . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) on his excellent speech . he mention that he have be elect at the tail - end of a Government and that an election be come soon . I reassure he that the diligence he have already demonstrate in this House and his constituency should secure his re - election . it be wonderful to hear a member speak for a constituency with its accent . I will address amendment 2 and new clause 8 , although I support virtually every amendment that have be table , which show the weakness of the process by which we have examine this treaty . I have be involve in discussion with the Secretary of State and the Minister over a number of month on ISDS , and I be concern about the contradiction between their refusal to secure a side letter with regard to this treaty and what happen with regard to Australia and New Zealand . the negotiating brief for the canadian free trade agreement also have a specific remit to prevent an ISDS process . I have never get to the bottom of that contradiction . amendment 2 follow our lengthy debate about the scrutiny of treaty . I have not give notice to the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Mr Wragg ) that I will be refer to he in the Chamber , although I be not sure that we have to give notice ahead of praise , rather than criticise , another Member . I be a member of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , which he chair , and he have become the 21st - century Walter Bagehot , with a solid mixture of Trollope . he steer our discussion on the formal process for examine treaty with immense skill , draw on a range of evidence that lead to consensus — there be almost consensus in the Chamber at the moment — and this be what our report say : " CRAG have be an insufficient legislative tool to facilitate meaningful parliamentary scrutiny of treaty … the current legislation provide only a passive role for Parliament and as such there be no opportunity for Parliament to express its explicit approval or disapproval of a treaty . " that be a common theme of all the debate . we have to do well than this . have read the report , the worry be that the Government have not respond positively by try to get some order , particularly on the early negotiating process and the debate that should take place . the Committee ' s general view on this treaty , like the other , be that Parliament have be largely bypass . we be offer no say on the Government ' s negotiate objective at the early stage , which be important , and no oversight of the negotiation as they progress . now we be refuse a vote on the final term of accession . this be not acceptable as a democratic process . the formal CRaG period , under which we can nominally have a say on the agreement , conclude this Friday , after a 21 - day period . we be offer no vote or even a debate on the substantive term of the cptpp during this period , and accession be likely to receive our consent without any of we be give a single vote . as I mention to the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , I have table a prayer to try to secure a time extension to enable the Government to bring forward time for a debate . my view be exactly the same as his : we be debate a narrow , technical , implement Bill and that be no substitute for a confirmatory debate and vote on the accession itself . I agree with the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , who have raise this issue with the Government in correspondence over the past two week . it be preposterous for the Government then to say with a straight face that there be not parliamentary time to have such a debate , give our current sit arrangement . those who have be here for as long as I , or perhaps even long , will know that there have not be a problem on parliamentary time in the past , as we have simply find the time and sit and go through the business when it be so important . my amendment 2 seek to address that wrong by formalise a requirement for the Government to ask for Parliament ' s consent for the UK ' s accession to the CPTPP . that be a basic democratic point of principle . if the government do not accept that , I come back to the urging of Members from across the House and say that I hope the Government will take seriously the recommendation of the PACAC report for reform of the process overall . we be deal with an undemocratic structure . the PACAC report ' s incredibly practical proposal be for a sifting process , a sifting Committee , the identification of treaty that require long consideration and give the House itself a proper process of democratic scrutiny and democratic decision . I shall deal briefly with new clause 8 , which stand in my name and deal with the labour chapter of the CPTPP . I have raise this issue before , and the point have be make by a number of colleague , the TUC , in particular , and various other campaign organisation throughout this ratification process . the labour provision of the CPTPP be outdated and inadequate . this treaty will include a number of country , some of which have be mention , with the prospect of other join , where abuse of labour right be widespread . put in place effective labour provision be therefore vital in any treaty we undertake . that view have be express across the House for a number of year now , but let I give some example . in Brunei and Vietnam , independent trade union be ban — they be not allow legally to operate . in Malaysia , which have be mention in our previous debate , force labour have be document extensively . that issue have be raise in this House time and again . in that context , it be crucial that the CPTPP ' s labour provision be readily enforceable and be link to the removal of trade preference , to ensure that membership do not lead to a race to the bottom on labour standard , exactly as the right hon . Gentleman say . I agree with he on the fear about China , because union colleague of mine from Hong Kong , whom I have work with for decade , be in prison at the moment purely and simply because they be trade unionist and have stand up for democratic right . the point I be try to make be that there be also an economic issue here . if China practise slave or force labour , as it do on a wide scale , it undercut all the reasonable labour . one good example be that the UK be desperately try to get more solar array , but the polysilicon that be critical to those be mine in Xinjiang under slave labour condition . no wonder everybody else be undercut , but we still pay for this . it be a point of economic principle that such thing will occur if we do not have proper right or regulation instal , or the appropriate sanction when anything take place . at the moment , those be not contain in the treaty . one member state can challenge another for fail to uphold labour right , but , as we have see time and again across various treaty , it be notoriously difficult to prove that such failure have affect trade . to challenge those labour practice , we have to demonstrate the effect on trade , but , under current provision , that be almost impossible to do . the International Trade Union Confederation have rightly point to the ability of state to buy their way out of issue via dispute settlement , as the amount of compensation have be calculate time and again as a fraction of the violation ' s impact on trade . so the sanction do not work , and they will not work under this treaty . the ineffectual nature of the labour right chapter be demonstrate by the fact that , since the agreement ' s conclusion in 2018 , no Government have challenge another for abuse labour right . it be not work . so again , if the Government be not go to accept this new clause , I just hope a future Government will consider the issue and that we will then be able to raise it with the CPTPP partner country through the formal review process , so that labour protection can eventually be significantly strengthen . that may well come under a new Government after the election , but I can reassure the whole House that a number of we will not drop this issue . it will come back time . we will raise the importance of get proper democratic scrutiny and , on issue such as labour right , of ensure that we protect both our own economy and worker themselves from the exploitation that have be evidence so succinctly in various debate in this House . it be a pleasure to follow the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) . what a great way of upstage his sister a week after her wedding — after a by - election be force , he go on to win it . but I suspect that it be a happy moment for all the family , and it be a delight to have he here . I have table two new clause . I have sit on the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee and , in its previous iteration , the International Trade Committee , when we scrutinise the Bill almost , I feel , to death . the problem with scrutiny without any tooth be that word produce in Parliament all the time be lose in the ether . the reality be that , unless there be debate in the main Chamber , there be not the right body of weight behind those word and those concern . it be clear to I that we need to change constitutional make - up of how we do trade deal . I support everything that PACAC have say , of course , but personally I would go far . I think we do need legislative change to CRaG , despite the fact that we could make some change through trust — that would be a good start . the reality be that , since we leave the European Union — I know we be not mean to go on about that — this House have have less scrutiny over trade deal than we do before . it use to be that consent be require , which would go via the European Scrutiny Committee . that consent be require to be send to the European Union before a trade deal could be sign off . we know that in other place around Europe , legislator do hold back inappropriate trade deal . the EU - Canada free trade deal , for example , be hold back by the Wallonian Parliament because it fail to address thing such as worker ’ right , which my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) mention . the deal be renegotiate and the Europeans get a well deal . we could have do that at any step of the way when we be in Europe , but now we be out of the EU , we be less able to do so and less able to hold our negotiate person to account . our negotiate person at that point be the European Commission . our negotiate people now be our Ministers and civil servant , but we be less able to hold they to account . we can not set their negotiating mandate or stop a trade deal , as we be able to do before . yes , we can delay it , and yes , this Minister be fantastic in come to be hold to account through questioning , but the hard stop that mean that people listen to you rather than just have a nice debating club with you have now be lose . we need to reflect that change world . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . he and I have discuss this at great length in two Committees that we have both sit on . I be hugely sympathetic to every point that he be make , but there be one counter - argument that have not yet be put forward . the position of our negotiator in strike these deal in the first place could be slightly weaken by the fact that they would then have to check back with the legislature on whether or not it will ratify . be we to take the final decision away from our negotiator , they would not be able to negotiate such a strong deal . I put that forward not necessarily as a definitive answer , but as a counter - argument . the hon . Gentleman be quite right . some people claim that that would happen , but other claim that it would strengthen our position . when the EU say , " this be our backstop , " we know that it be not bluff because the backstop have be set by the EU Parliament . now , negotiator can say , " well , we know that that be not really the backstop , because you can go away and cajole your Back Benchers to vote this through anyway , " whereas in other system , they can say , " I ' m sorry , but the Senate will not approve this because the committee be hold my foot to the fire . " however , there be other way of do it . as other member have mention , we could allow the matter to have Privy Council status and meet in camera , to allow involvement in negotiation . in multilateral process , other government embe parliamentarian in their negotiating team . the Norwegians , for example , embed parliamentarian in their WTO negotiating team in the day - to - day back and forth . of course , in Norway , the WTO be deal with by a different department from bilateral treaty , so there be a slightly different way of negotiate different kind of deal . we can determine what kind of deal it be from the level of negotiation and whether Parliament be involve . if Norway be deal with the CPTPP , parliamentarian would be embed in that process , but if it be deal with the Japan deal , they would not . there be granularity of parliamentary overview and scrutiny , but almost all system have develop they over the past 50 year as trade deal have basically become international lawmaking process rather than deal just with trade — they deal with all aspect of our life . however , we effectively pause our process when we join the European Union , and we have now revert to where we be before join . although I accept that our process be now in the CRaG law , they have not evolve properly . let I address my new clause 2 . around 90 % of the world ' s oil palm tree be grow in just a few island in Malaysia and Indonesia . currently , less than 20 % of that palm oil have receive certification for sustainable palm oil forestry . the CPTPP will remove tariff from palm oil . of course , the aim of remove tariff be to increase trade , so it seem implausible to say that we do not think it will increase the amount of palm oil in the UK that come from unsustainable forest . the same could be true of tropical wood . two of the 11 forest that supply our tropical wood and be identify as in danger be in the CPTPP region , but they have no additional protection . first , Indonesia be not part of CPTPP . it be also important to note that the Malaysians have introduce a certification and standard for more sustainable palm oil plantation . I be not say that that be perfection — it certainly be not , there be a lot far to go — but it be a good example of how , by form a trade agreement through CPTPP , we can raise standard , not lower they . the hon . Gentleman make a perfectly sound point . that be why my amendment do not say that we should not join the CPTPP , or that we should disallow it for those purpose . it would require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament a monitoring report on the level of unsustainable palm oil and forest product that be enter this country before we join the CPTPP , and to report regularly on those import . if and when this House , or Ministers themselves , believe that action be need , the datum will be there to prove it . if we do not collect that datum , we will not know , and we will be blind to the problem . the same be true of our obligation on climate change and biodiversity . personally , I would prefer a strong environmental section in the Bill , but it be what it be . however , it should be note that 119 pesticide that be permit in CPTPP country be not permit in this country , 56 of which be consider to be highly harmful to human being . yes , we have standard for food , but there be no production standard , and there be no standard for pesticide that be not food - base . the problem with some of those pesticide — the killing of bee and other wildlife — be not just about human consumption : sometimes , those pesticide be ban not because they harm human being , but because they harm the fauna and flora around we . when we import good that contain they , they can enter the food chain ; even bad , they can enter the animal food chain , which be not regulate by the same food standard and therefore cause huge problem . we need Government oversight of those point to ensure that we do not end up damage some of our crop through pesticide that we ourselves have ban . turn to new clause 3 , I be particularly concerned about ISDS . at long last , the Government have agree that we should withdraw from the energy charter treaty , primarily because in a change world , we need to make change to our energy policy to make it more green . our continual inclusion in the energy charter treaty would bind we to ISDS agreement , which we have see target at a number of european state that have make move to increase their environmentally friendly source of energy . that be now a danger to we : even though we have not lose an ISDS case , it be a danger to our future and to policymake . if we have make that case for energy , I think the same case could be make for almost all our arrangement . it be useful to note that our agreement with Australia , New Zealand and Japan — all of which be part of the CPTPP — do not include ISDS . in fact , the agreement with Japan include a clause to say that we would not enact isds unless we sign or enter into another agreement that include it , so the very fact that this agreement include ISDS trigger a number of ISDS court in other agreement that we have sign , which I think be risky and dangerous . we need a report on the risk that ISDS pose to the UK , because we could have rogue investor who end up take we to court even if it be against the national interest of the two respective state . of course , citizen can not access ISDS — it be not a global court where citizen who have be harm can seek redress from a Government . only corporation that have invest in a particular country can do so . isds actually mean that corporation that invest into Britain from outside have high protection than a british corporation that invest in plant here . I think it be totally wrong that a british corporation be more vulnerable to change policy than a foreign one . it should be a level playing field , but at the moment , a british corporation that have invest here have no recourse to ISDS if policy change in Britain , but corporation from outside do — the Minister be frown a bit , so I be just try to explain the difference . there be also a well record chilling effect from ISDS that we must be particularly aware of . fundamentally — again , I go back to the thing that we be not mean to mention — under the European Union , at least there be open court to which we appoint judge . ISDS mean secret tribunal that do not always have british judge , so there be a problem there . if we be mean to be take back control , surely we should be take power away from secret court and allow sunlight to be the justice that we seek . apart from the matter cover by the two new clause I have table , I think this treaty be a step in the right direction . we should support it , but I wish the Government have negotiate as well as New Zealand and other country that seek and win protection that , I be afraid , our Ministers fail to even bother seek . like everybody else , let I start with a moment of consensus . it be a privilege to be present for the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) . on my visit to his constituency , I do not get to see the beacon that he mention , but that be clearly an oversight on my part and I hope to rectify it at some point . may I be the first to congratulate his sister on her wedding ? brother who usurp their sister be brave man , and only be elect to this place be a justifiable reason for do so . I be go to contradict my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) in that I think we have to talk about Brexit in this debate , not least because the Government have talk about Brexit in promote the benefit of the CPTPP , and the people of the UK deserve well . they need to understand what be be offer to they and what be be do to reflect their grow recognition of the severe damage that this Tory hard Brexit have do to the british economy and to british business . I rise to support not only the amendment table by my Front - Bench colleague , but the concern that have be raise about democratic oversight and scrutiny of those who might join the CPTPP . I will also speak to new clause 9 , which I have table . I be pleased to say that it have support from across the House , include among people who disagree on whether Brexit have be a good idea . when so much fantasy have dominate the debate , it be about time we have some fact . new clause 9 refer to the very real experience of british business right now of the damage that Brexit have do . research suggest that £ 140 billion have already be drain from the economy ; those trading opportunity and business opportunity have go . the average Briton be £ 2 , 000 bad off , and in my London constituency people be £ 3 , 500 bad off . british business be cry out for support and help with trade . research from the University of Sussex last year show that only 6 % be positive about Brexit , and seven in 10 manufacturer report problem with their supply chain . that be why it matter that we look at the cptpp . for the avoidance of doubt , I be here not to oppose join the cptpp , but to hold the Government to account . it be Government Ministers , as well as their chum and various right - wing think - tank , who promote the idea that we should not worry about the damage that Brexit under their watch have do to our economy , because programme such as the CPTPP be go to replace all those trading opportunity and be the hallowed ground that british business could look to . the Trade Secretary herself say : " our accession to CPTPP send a powerful signal that the UK be open for business and use our post - Brexit freedom to reach out to new market around the world " . she be one of the milder advocate for the idea that not only have Brexit be a roar success , but that the CPTPP will add to those trading opportunity . " it ' s no exaggeration to say that CPTPP + UK be an equivalent economic power to the EU - 28 " , say Shanker Singham of the Institute of Economic Affairs . goodness I , what a claim to be make . I table new clause 9 because I think british business and this place deserve to know the truth about the relative merit of such partnership and the challenge to our business and community , particularly small and medium - sized business struggle with the impact of Brexit , as well as whether help be indeed come . the honest truth be that nobody want to name consistently the impact of this partnership deal , not even the Secretary of State herself . Mark Littlewood , who be also from the Institute of Economic Affairs , have claim : " the benefit to Britain will likely be significantly great than some official estimate drive by static economic model . " the challenge to that argument be that , when we ask anybody who promote it what the actual datum might be — where the evidence be that this will be the help need by british business that be be clobber by Brexit , with all the rule , regulation and tariff they be now face — we get the Facebook set response of " it ' s complicated " . that be not good enough for british business . even the Secretary of State try that model with the Business and Trade Committee , tell it that she dispute the idea that the result or the benefit to british business of join the CPTPP would be small , but she could not give an alternative model or an alternative number to give people some crumb of hope that they might actually solve the problem in their supply chain . all we be leave with be the claim of greatness — claim that disintegrate on hard contact with the here and now about what be actually be propose and what actual damage have be do by Brexit . here and now , british business find that Brexit border taxis be increase , although I note that today in a write ministerial statement the Government have decide to rewrite some of those Brexit border taxis , which be due to come in at the end of April . so that be great for british business ! that be stability and planning , when even the Government do not know how much they be go to charge people . the cptpp be suppose to reduce the tariff and non - tariff barrier we now face as a direct result of have leave the European Union , because after all it be about reduce tariff barrier . let we look at the datum we have to hand and whether we can really judge this partnership as offer that salvation . it have be claim again , this time by the Daily Telegraph , that the bloc will represent 16 % of global gdp , " leap - frog the combined EU . " it be currently 10 % of global GDP — but you know the Telegraph and figure — compare with 14 % for the European Union . it be say that the CPTPP member country have a combined population of 500 million and a gdp of £ 9 trillion . that be fantastic ; we can be part of trading with they — nobody would dispute that that would be helpful to british business . there be a small reference point to take into account , however . although the EU be of a similar size with a gdp of £ 11 trillion , the total value of our trade with the EU be £ 557 billion . that be 45 % of our total trade , but that trade be fall as a direct result of Brexit , because it use to account for 55 % of UK export . that be because , for all the smoke and mirror and all the bluster about the CPTPP , there be a simple fact : geography matter . we can fight many thing in life but air mile and transportation cost be not among they . our ability to trade with our near neighbour easily and freely matter to british business far more than anything we could do with those far away . that be why the Government ' s own impact assessment tell we that the CPTPP might only make 0 . 06 % of difference to our gdp , or £ 2 billion . that be in part because we already have trade deal with most of the country from when we have they as part of the EU . so only a furth 0 . 33 % — not 33 % — of total UK trade will come under the new trade agreement . the reality in all this and the conundrum we face be that this trade partnership will only really be a big deal if more country join . I be sorry the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) be no long in his place . he be disappoint that the United States of America be not part of the CPTPP . it will only be the game changer that people talk it up to be if more country join . then we would be look at the Indo - Pacific region . right here , right now , that be not what we be sign up to and that be not what be be offer to british business . that be why scrutiny and look at who else might join matter , but it be also why new clause 9 matter . it be not fair to british business to suggest that help be come when help there be none . membership of the CPTPP bear no comparison to EU membership . the sum it will generate be just one fiftieth of what the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate Brexit have already cost the UK economy . indeed , it estimate that leave the single market mean that our gdp will be 4 % less over the next 15 year , and some have estimate that GDP have already reduce by 5 % as a result . in 2022 , the UK export £ 340 billion - worth of good and service to the EU . by way of comparison , we export £ 64 billion - worth of good and service to the CPTPP country . new clause 9 be about be honest with british business about where those market lie and where they should invest their time . it be also about understand that free trade be not just about tariff ; it be also about regulation and the non - tariff change we face . it be about understanding that this deal could lead to a lowering of food standard and problem with our food supply chain . it could affect our ability to sign a sanitary and phytosanitary deal with Europe that might help remove those silly Brexit border taxis which mean that in a couple of week our constituent be go to be ask we why there be food shortage and food inflation and load of lorry queue up at Dover try to get to Sevington . it could lead to challenge for our environment , too : my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) rightly raise question about palm oil and deforestation . there be an absolute irony in those who champion Brexit and who now champion the CPTPP not seem to understand what the investor - state dispute settlement provision be and the lack of democratic accountability and lack of control we might have . I do not know who be take back control under those circumstance , because it be behind closed door . clearly , we could have be work on other deal as a country that would have make a big difference to british business . that be why the amendment and new clause be so important . our constituent demand that we ask those question and get those answer from Government about the tariff that be be retain and the impact that they will have , such as for british cheese producer . after all , Canada ' s dairy industry be be protect — no Wensleydale for Winnipeg . the Trade and Agriculture Commission have warn of the potential increase cost of product due to tariff reduction , because UK producer will be hold legally to high sustainable standard . it be also about the rule of origin and detail around what content be allow . nobody be dispute that it be helpful to have content accumulation , because it help with those difficulty within supply chain . minister have make much about that , but the reality be that have they spend as much time on the pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention , we would have far great benefit for british business . that convention bind together more than 60 bilateral trade agreement within the Euro - Mediterranean area . it be not just the EU ; it be much broad than that . there be 23 contracting party , each with free trade agreement between they and a single rule - base origin protocol . british business and those struggle supply chain could have get much more help , have we look at what would really benefit they and just admit the geography at stake in all this . we have short - change ourselves and we be short - change the british public if we try to claim that the CPTPP be in any way compensation for the damage that Brexit be do . in challenge those on the right who claim that the benefit of CPTPP will far outweigh the problem of Brexit — their hope and intention be that UK accession will kill off any likelihood that we will ever be part of the EU customs union or single market , as in that article in the Daily Telegraph — and that we could not have dynamic alignment , we have to recognise that that be just not true . there be plenty of evidence that whatever we do , we could rethink , and thank goodness for that . when thing be at stake for british business , it be only right that we ask those question . there be a process for change regulation as we join the CPTPP that can be reverse if we can do a deal with Europe and work out what be in the good interest of british business . the only way we can do that be if we have the fact , and that be what new clause 9 be about . whether member agree with Brexit or oppose it , they should support new clause 9 and that ethos of have the datum . if I be wrong and the CPTPP be the light at the end of the tunnel for british business , let we prove it , stand behind it and celebrate it . nobody want to see british business struggle as a result of Brexit with no help in sight . every member in this House should get behind the idea that we need good economic modelling . we should understand the extent of alignment , what new trade regulation on carbon pricing might do for british business and what be happen to trade volume as a result of these partnership . without the new clause , we will not get that datum . we will still get the Facebook answer of , " it ' s complicated . we can not really tell you . " all the while , global Britain be go - break Britain — it be gutte Britain , with business across the country face ream and ream of paperwork because of Brexit , with no end in sight , because this government will not put british business first and renegotiate with Europe for a close deal . I be sorry that new clause 9 have not be select for decision . I understand why , but I hope that member will join I in demand well for british business when it come not just to trade deal , but to our relationship with Europe , because every manager of a small business in this country right now will be look at all the paperwork , all the complication , all the further regulation and excessive cost and frankly the fact that the Government can not even tell they what they will charge they on the Brexit border tax , and they will be come to our constituency surgery ask for help . we owe they the respect of have an answer . may I say what a pleasure it be to follow the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) ? she make an excellent case for rejoin the European Union . I could have scarcely put it well myself , and I hope her leader be listen . she make some important point , any teasing aside , about the importance of economic datum and of be able to model the impact of the Government ' s decision . I rise to speak to new clause 10 , which be in my name , but first I would echo a number of voice from various part of the Chamber that have express regret that we have before we a narrow Bill to ensure compliance with the requirement of the CPTPP , rather than a debate on the substance and fundamental principle . that be something on which , collectively , we could do much well . the Scottish National party ' s concern about the impact of the CPTPP relate to the long term . however , if positive impact be hard to find now , it be important that any negative be identify early and , where possible , mitigate . in Committee , the Minister state that there should be a " biennial monitoring report " , and a comprehensive evaluation report for the whole agreement prepare " within five year of the UK ' s accession . " – – [ Official Report , Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Public Bill Committee , 20 February 2024 ; c . 41 . ] although that be welcome , it may come a little late for any sector that be immediately adversely affect . we know from the various iteration of the post - Brexit agreement on trading arrangement between Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the european single market that even in the most carefully negotiate and meticulously scrutinise arrangement — and most be not — unforeseen adverse consequence can emerge that need to be address . that be why , in new clause 10 , we call for what might be call an early warning report . it would , within six month , set out the impact CPTPP implementation have have on the UK ' s trade in good and service and on GDP . if new clause 9 have be select for a vote , we would have vote for it , to make available that baseline of datum . the Scottish National party find merit in all the amendment . in particular , we would be happy to offer support for new clause 1 in the name of the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who be no long in his place . it be fair to say that at time there appear to be a disconnect between the UK Government ' s trade policy and foreign policy . surely there can be no doubt that the accession of other state to the CPTPP could present a risk to national security , to other trade , or to international relation objective that his Majesty ' s Government might determine on . as such , the very least that member be entitle to expect be a report by the Government , and a vote in the House of Commons on the accession of any economy designate as either a threat or a strategic challenge in the integrated review , so that member can express their view on that accession . I listen with interest as debate ping - ponge across the Chamber on how we might ensure well scrutiny of trade deal . that be a valuable debate to have . obviously , different viewpoint have be express , but the Bill be an opportunity — and through amendment , there be still an opportunity — to ensure that information be bring to the House , so that member can at least express a view on trade deal , even if that view be not bind on the Government . that bring I to new clause 4 , which to some extent have steal the thunder of new clause 1 . SNP Members will be happy to walk through the Lobby in support of new clause 4 . if successfully pass , we would expect the result report to cover the information request in new clause 1 . I turn to investor - state dispute settlement . our concern about their potential application in the absence of side letter of exemption be well know . as we hear from the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , there be jurisdiction in the CPTPP ' s membership that have a number of pension fund and investor with significant financial interest around the world , not least in the UK . I listen carefully to what the Minister say in Committee about why he do not feel it necessary to have measure in place to deal with this issue , but I remain thoroughly unconvinced of his argument that because the UK have never be subject to successful action under ISDS , it be unlikely to be subject to it in the future . I assume that the Minister have never be run over by a bus , but that he still take the suitable precaution of look both way before cross the road . we should not take this risk and open up the UK economy to the full scope of ISDS . have new clause 3 be select for a vote , we would have be happy to support it ; it would have allow for monitoring of isds ' s implementation . finally , we support new clause 12 from the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) . although the Bill be narrow , it introduce a number of measure that affect performer and the manner in which they can assert their right . it be important to understand as quickly as possible the practical impact of any unforeseen consequence , so we think it prudent to add new clause 12 to the Bill , and be happy to support it . I rise to speak to new clause 4 to 7 and amendment 1 . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in relation to BPI . let I at the outset say what a particular pleasure it be to listen to the maiden speech of my new hon . friend , the hon . member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) . his description of his constituent ' comment to he during the by - election will chime with all on the Opposition side of the House . it be clear that he will be an asset to the House , and I think it be fair to say that south London ' s loss be undoubtedly Kingswood ' s gain . we support accession to the CPTPP because of its geopolitical benefit and the benefit to trade , relatively limited though they be set to be . give that the conservative party have deliver a recession , a cost of live crisis and the bad growth rate in the G7 , any uptick in trade and ultimately growth , however limited , would be welcome . there remain , however , a series of concern about the Government ' s approach to the CPTPP and trade deal . our amendment and new clause seek to address the weak arrangement for parliamentary scrutiny of trade deal ; the grow concern about the investor - state dispute settlement ; and issue around performer ' right , environmental , animal welfare and food standard , and the help that business will be offer to exploit the benefit , however limited , of this deal . on new clause 1 , I recognise the concern articulate by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , which be echo by the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) , and I be sympathetic to the former ' s call for an enhanced role for Parliament . I be also sympathetic to new clause 11 from the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , under which Parliament would require an assessment of the impact of any new country ' s join the cptpp . however , I think we need to go far than both those new clause do . labour ' s new clause 4 would require Ministers to publish such an impact assessment in Parliament and to give the House a vote on any new country join the cptpp . give the security issue , the impact on particular sector of the economy and on job in the UK , as well as the opportunity that an accession could bring , the british people surely have a right to expect this House to consider the merit , or lack of merit , of any new accession to the CPTPP . during the Lords debate , the Minister say that he think that a new state join CPTPP would trigger the CRaG process in the UK , but the CRaG process , as increase number of member across the House have largely come to agree , be clearly not fit for purpose ; PACAC be the late Committee to make that clear , in its recent report . new clause 4 provide the opportunity to reform part of that process . let I refer to what be say by the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , and by the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) and my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) . we be promise by the Secretary of State and by the Minister in Committee that there would be a debate under the CRaG process , as oppose to there be just this small implement Bill . we now know that the debate will not happen , so that be another broken promise on trade . the impact of new country join the CPTPP will vary , but could be considerable in certain situation . it be only right that this country expect the House to consider those impact carefully . I hope that the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green , and the hon . member for Totnes , and for Chesham and Amersham , can be persuade to support our new clause . it would achieve what they want in practice and go far . with the leave of the House , we will press our new clause to a vote . on new clause 5 , I hesitate to damage the reputation of my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who make excellent speech on the ISDS . over the past 10 year , the marked acceleration in usage of the ISDS by large , litigious corporation to challenge government ' climate - relate or other environmental decision have prompt concern at the high level in the US , in european capital and at the UN , so much so that government across the world be increasingly exclude or revoke the ISDS provision . the problem with the ISDS be that it be secretive ; it avoid perfectly effective domestic public legal system ; it discriminate against small and medium - sized business ; it often prevent the voice of those with a genuine interest in the decision from be hear ; and it hold back environmental and other progressive public policy change . strikingly , the OECD could find no sustained evidence that the ISDS be key to secure and maintain business investment . the Nuffield Trust ' s briefing for today ' s debate state that the ISDS could enable company to challenge some health regulation and NHS policy . the US , Canada and the European Union have all take step to revoke the ISDS provision in some of their major treaty . the average amount — this be just the published case — that government have be force to pay , from taxpayer ' money , be about $ 600 million for climate case . it seem even more noteworthy that the UN Secretary - General ' s special rapporteur on environment and human right express concern just last September that the isds be a significant threat to the net zero transition , the Paris agreement and tackle climate change . some in government clearly share some of those concern , as they want to exclude the ISDS from the bilateral trade deal with Canada , and support its abolition from trade with the European Union . the Minister be somewhat evasive in Committee . initially , he try to duck question on why the Government want to exclude the ISDS from a bilateral trade agreement with Canada but be quite happy to leave it in the CPTPP for canadian investor to use . give that Ministers have sign side letter with Australia and New Zealand to disapply the ISDS between our country in the cptpp , it seem bizarre that they have not attempt a similar approach with Canada . just after Committee , the Government confirm that they be pull out of the energy charter treaty , in which isds arrangement play a major role , say that it do not fit with net zero ambition . the Minister might want to try again to explain why it be essential that we remain committed to the isds element of the cptpp . it be time for a clear - eyed assessment of the risk that the ISDS pose to our interest . with the leave of the House , the Opposition will press new clause 5 to a vote . there continue to be significant concern about the environmental impact of accession to the CPTPP , and the impact on food standard and on animal welfare . the CPTPP cover two of the 11 deforestation front expect to account for 80 % of deforestation by 2030 . a range of environmental group be very concerned that when the UK join the CPTPP , preferential access to our market will be create as a result of the removal of tariff on palm oil . that could increase demand for product from threatened zone and exacerbate the risk of further deforestation . minister still have not publish — never mind present to this House — deforestation due diligence legislation under section 17 of the Environment Act 2021 , so it be difficult to accept Ministers ' claim that they be fully commit to our climate change target , and to protect important source of global biodiversity . on food standard , deep concern remain that , despite their protestation , the deal that minister have negotiate , include the CPTPP , will allow into the UK ever more food produce to low standard , particularly animal welfare standard . the whole House will remember the word of the former Environment Secretary , the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who tell the House that the Minister and his colleague have give away " far too much for far too little " . — [ Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 424 . ] when they negotiate the UK - Australia free trade agreement . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the National Farmers Union , in particular , have raise concern that new tariff negotiate with Mexico and Canada will leave farmer in the UK much more vulnerable to import egg , pork and chicken that be produce to standard that would be illegal in the UK . the Pesticide Action Network UK raise concern acknowledge by the Trade and Agriculture Commission — concern also raise by my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) — that more food produce use pesticide ban in the UK will be import into the UK New clause 7 would require Ministers to publish a plan to help business benefit from the new trade deal . it be strike that the Office for Budget Responsibility , in its recent Budget analysis , make it clear that trade will make a negligible contribution to growth through to 2028 under conservative party plan . we remember that the Secretary of State be appoint and within week export begin to fall . then the Minister of State be reappointe to the brief and export fall even far . who could possibly have expect that to happen ? minister have cut funding for trade mission lead by business group themselves , and cut funding for small and medium - sized enterprise to get to trade show to open up new market for themselves . the Government website for help exporter be so poor that some firm use other country ' website to find where there might be opportunity . minister could and should be do a whole lot well to support our business to take advantage of any benefit in trade deal . new clause 7 would require Ministers , once the accession process be over , to publish a clear implementation plan to help business benefit from CPTPP . preference utilisation rate for other trade deal certainly do not offer any ground for complacency . give that export under the conservative party have perform bad than every other member of the G7 bar Japan over the last decade , it be strike that the Chancellor have nothing to offer exporter and , strikingly , no mention of any plan to help british business exploit our come membership of CPTPP in his recent Budget . for those reason , I be sympathetic to new clause 10 , table by the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . on amendment 1 , as the Minister know and as the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham set out , there remain serious doubt from industry about whether the change the Bill allow for in relation to the UK ' s copyright framework be actually require . we have have different explanation for the change from Ministers . at one point they be due to the cptpp . on another occasion they be be make to comply with other international treaty obligation sign decade ago . what be clear be that the change could have a significant impact on the ability of the music industry to support new british artist . because of those concern , Ministers be force to bring forward a consultation on the change . the consultation will not finish until after the Bill have complete its passage through both Houses . in the bad - case scenario estimate by the Intellectual Property Office , the change could cost over £ 100 million . it be likely that Royal Assent will have be grant before we know the outcome of the consultation process . minister be force to bring this issue forward , which I have to say be just the late example of , at good , a half - hearted approach to the scrutiny of trade issue by those on the Treasury Bench . my hon . friend be make an excellent , excellent speech . [ interruption . ] well , he know it anyway , but there be nothing wrong with praise . be it not also a sign of how the Government , time and again , let down our creative industry ? if it be steel or farming , Conservative Members would be in the ear of Ministers through their trade partnership committee , but creative industry be lock out of many of they and ignore . that be why Labour have put forward a plan to put creative industry at the heart of our economic development . my hon . friend be generous in his description of my speech — I be grateful to he — and absolutely right about the importance of Labour ' s plan for the creative sector . reform of the UK ' s copyright framework should not be take lightly , and it should only follow proper and well - consider consultation . otherwise , we risk endanger our gold standard of protection for our vital creative sector . I gently suggest to the House that the reform allow for under clause 5 should not have be shoehorn into this Bill , and certainly not without a thorough consultation have take place first . in that regard we be sympathetic to the merit of new clause 12 , table by the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham . we will continue to scrutinise development in this area , and we hope that Ministers will reach a final decision , after the consultation , that will not have the adverse impact that be fear by some outside the House . as I have say , I share the concern express by my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown in new clause 2 and 3 , and I therefore hope he will join we with enthusiasm in the Lobby later today . similarly , I share the desire of my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington for much great adherence to the convention of the International Labour Organisation . we raise this issue in Committee , and as I say early , I share his frustration — and that of other member — that minister have not allow the House a substantive debate under the CRaG process . my hon . friend , who be make an excellent speech , be right to underline the point about ILO obligation . in the 2022 queen ' s Speech we be promise an updating of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 that would have require much strong action and transparency on supply chain in order to eliminate force labour . that measure seem to have disappear , so we must insist on more robust action in our trade agreement if we be to wipe out the scandal of modern slavery . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . minister will have hear his point ; whether they will act on it remain to be see , but I certainly hope they do . if we be lucky enough to be elect at the next general election , we will certainly work with the ILO to try to drive well adherence to its convention . last but not least , I share the ambition of my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow , who make a powerful speech , for a much more open dialogue on trade and the axing of more of the red tape , bureaucracy and barrier to trade with european market throw up by the poor negotiating skill of the last Prime Minister but two . there remain , in particular , serious concern about scrutiny of trade agreement and about the damage that isds provision could do , so we will , with the leave of the House , press new clause 4 and 5 to a vote . I thank colleague for their contribution to the debate on this important Bill . let I begin with the new clause relate to new accession to the CPTPP : new clause 1 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) — who always demonstrate his passion on this important matter — new clause 4 , table by the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , and new clause 11 , table by the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) . as the House may know , there be no rule within the cptpp that require new applicant to be deal with on a " first come , first serve " basis . rather , it have be agree within the group that applicant economy must meet three important criterion — call the Auckland principle — and it be on those key principle that application will be assess . applicant must : first , be willing and able to meet the high standard of the agreement ; secondly , have a demonstrate pattern of comply with their trade commitment ; and thirdly , be able to command consensus of the CPTPP party . those strong criterion will be apply to each accession application . it be right that we in the United Kingdom , as a new member of the CPTPP group , work within the principle of the group to achieve a consensus decision . I remind the House that while the UK rightly participate in discussion on this topic with CPTPP party , we will only have a formal say over an application post - ratification and entry into force of the agreement . it be therefore crucial that we ratify the agreement and become a party , so that we can work with CPTPP member decisively on each current and future application . with that in mind , it would not be appropriate for the Government to give a running commentary on individual applicant , not least because to be draw on individual applicant now , ahead of the UK become a party to the agreement , could have an impact on our ability to achieve that important goal of ensure that the CPTPP enter into force . I should also make it clear that our own accession process have set a strong precedent . the robust experience that the UK have undergone have reinforce the high standard and prove that the bar be not easy to meet for any aspirant . regard the scrutiny of any hypothetical future accession , I can assure the House that any accession of a new party to the CPTPP would require an amendment to the term of the cptpp . therefore , as with the UK ' s accession protocol , our firm intention be that such a future accession would be subject to the term of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 — the CRaG process . I assure the House that CRaG be applicable to plurilateral agreement such as the CPTPP . the Act make no distinction between bilateral , plurilateral or multilateral treaty as outline in section 25 of CRaG . the Minister be be characteristically generous in give way . we obviously seek a debate under CRaG for this treaty . the Secretary of State , who be now in her place , tell our Committee that she support that , but the Leader of the House then refuse to make Government time available for that debate . what further assurance can the Minister give we that there would indeed be a debate if the treaty be change in the way that he describe ? the Government ' s position be unchanged . it be always the desire of the Government , as express by the Secretary of State in write to the House and to the right hon . Gentleman as Chair of the Select Committee , to urge and to ask for there to be a debate , but that will always be subject to the availability of parliamentary time . in a little bit , I will discuss the opportunity that there have be to scrutinise the CPTPP , which have be manifold in recent year . will the Minister give way ? I will give way a little later . the Act make no distinction between bilateral , plurilateral and multilateral treaty . in addition to Parliament be able to make its view clear through the CRaG process , let I remind the House that , as a dualist state , any legislation necessary to implement the treaty — such as alteration to tariff legislation , to take a hypothetical example — would need to be fully scrutinise and pass by Parliament in the usual way . it be the long - stand policy of his Majesty ' s Government not to ratify international agreement before all relevant domestic legislation be in place . be Parliament to refuse to pass any necessary implement legislation , ratification of an agreement would be delay . I thank my right hon . friend the Members for Chingford and Woodford Green and for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) for their opening speech . both be strong supporter of the UK join the cptpp . indeed , my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset , who be the former Secretary of State , initiate these talk back in 2017 with I at his side , and successive Secretaries of State have give maximum priority to do so . I be now in my fourth stint in this role , and it be fantastic to see his and my vision in 2017 now near fruition and be very close to UK ratification . my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green and I know that Parliament be perfectly capable of express a view on an international agreement and whether a country might join it , and the Government of the day would be very likely to take notice . in debate in this House over some year now , he have make clear his view on trade with China , have gain support and attention , and be effective in do so . indeed , he have help to achieve change in policy in relation to supply chain in Xinjiang , and I agree with his support for Taiwan — a full member of the World Trade Organisation — as an important trade partner for the UK . we be positive about this kind of debate in the House . the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , who chair the Select Committee , mention the scrutiny that there have be in this House for the CPTPP agreement , and he doubt whether there have be four debate . I have a slightly nagging feeling that I may actually remember each of the four debate , so I go back and check the four debate , which start with the very first one that I respond to in April 2021 . there have be four debate in this House and in the other House on the CPTPP . there have also be two oral ministerial statement and 16 write ministerial statement , and five separate Select Committees have take evidence from Ministers and senior official on the matter . there have be a Trade and Agriculture Commission report and a section 42 report . this be not an under - scrutinise trade agreement — rather the opposite . as have always be clear , we want the CPTPP to expand to fast - grow Asia - Pacific economy . I also agree with the Auckland principle . rise — of course I will give way — if the right hon . Gentleman first concede that this have be a well - scrutinise trade deal . not quite . I be grateful to the Minister for set out the full history , but will he accept that the Secretary of State believe that we should have have a debate , under the CRaG principle , on the full treaty ? this Bill cover only three of 30 treaty . it be a matter of disappointment to many of we in the House that even though the Secretary of State no doubt argue vigorously and passionately for the debate , the Leader of the House be unable to grant we time . that be not necessarily the precedent that we want to establish for further trade treaty scrutiny . of course , the right hon . Gentleman be a Minister in the last Labour Government , and he will remember that there be the vagary of time available . make an application to say that we would like there to be a debate be not the same as those who run the parliamentary timetable agree to there be one . let I move on to the new hon . member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) , who make a very accomplished and well deliver maiden speech . he speak fondly of predecessor whom I know and like , such as Roger Berry and Rob Hayward . he win a keenly contest by - election — I have be to a few by - election in recent year , and I be grateful to be give a bit of time off and to not go to Kingswood . none the less , I have great admiration for those who win by - election . I have see at close hand that they be a different kind of contest . the hon . Gentleman speak of his support for free trade and for reward hard work , and express sympathy for the Government , who have face the challenge of covid and Ukraine . I agree with he on all of those issue , and the Government do too . I look forward to his continue the tradition of an independent - minded Member for Kingswood — but please do not tell the Labour Whips Office . as ever , my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) speak passionately about trade and CPTPP . he be always probe on those issue . various amendment and new clause that have be table ask for additional impact assessment . before address some of those amendment directly , I would like to reassure the House that the Government will publish a biennial monitoring report and a comprehensive evaluation report of the agreement within five year of our accession . amendment 1 and new clause 12 would introduce commitment to publish impact assessment on the performer ' right provision in this Bill , and I will set out why we consider they to be unnecessary . the impact of the rule depend in large part on how they be apply in particular case through secondary legislation make under the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 . that secondary legislation may restrict or extend particular right to particular country . wherever the Government intend to make significant change to the secondary legislation , we will engage with affected industry and carry out an impact assessment . the Intellectual Property Office have do that recently with its consultation and its assessment of the impact of potential secondary legislation on the broadcasting and public playing of record music . a commitment to assess the impact of the measure in this Bill be therefore unnecessary , and risk overlook the effect of the secondary legislation . I will now turn to new clause 2 and 6 , which broadly focus on environmental and other standard . I can provide assurance that the UK will continue to uphold our high environmental standard in respect of all our trade agreement , include CPTPP . as I have previously mention , the Government intend to publish a comprehensive ex post evaluation of the agreement within five year of the UK ' s accession , and I can confirm that this evaluation will include an assessment of the environmental impact of our accession . in addition , the independent Trade and Agriculture Commission be ask to scrutinise the UK ' s accession protocol and produce a report . the TAC conclude in its advice , publish on 7 December 2023 , that " CPTPP do not require the UK to change its level of statutory protection " in relation to the aforementioned area . it be very welcome that there will be a five - year report . will it include number on unsustainable palm oil and rainforest wood to ensure that we be not exploit more than we be at the moment ? that be exactly the sort of thing that I would expect the report to do . I must say that I be delighted that the hon . Gentleman have mention the Government ' s record when it come to palm oil , because 86 % of UK import of palm oil be certify as sustainable in 2022 — up from 16 % under the last Labour Government in 2010 , when we take office . Deforestation relate to palm oil in Malaysia have fall by 60 % since 2012 , accord to the late available figure , and we will keep work with country such as Malaysia to build on that work . as soon as parliamentary time allow , the Government will be table their forest risk commodity legislation under the Environment Act 2021 , which will make it illegal for large business operate in the UK to use key forest risk commodity produce on land illegally occupy or use . the Government have confirm that palm oil product would be include under the regulated commodity . additionally , I once again refer to the report of the independent Trade and Agriculture Commission , which conclude that " it be unlikely that CPTPP will lead to an increase in palm oil be grow on deforest land " . move on to new clause 3 and 5 , relate to ISDS , the UK ' s accession to CPTPP will benefit UK investor . I do not think the opposition understand how business work . we support british business operate overseas . they create job in this country — job that the Labour party do not seem to like . I thank my right hon . friend for progress CPTPP with all his usual energy , because it will boost trade and be of huge strategic significance . it be an opportunity of Brexit that must be grasp . on investor - state dispute resolution , he be absolutely right that we must not give way to the naysayer . it will be overwhelmingly in the UK ' s interest , give the protection for UK business and exporter and the certainty it will provide in the massive growth region of the Indo - Pacific . my right hon . Friend also play a really important role in get CPTPP through . I remember our joint visit to Vietnam in 2021 , when we argue for vietnamese support . he be right to say that it be important to remember that the UK have never lose an ISDS case . equally , it be important for we to protect UK business operate abroad . they provide job and secure livelihood at home . I find it astonish that the opposition , as they lurch ever leftward , seem to forget that the whole time . I can assure the House that the UK already have investment agreement contain ISDS provision with around 90 trading partner , include seven of the 11 CPTPP party . the UK provide a welcome investment environment with a non - discriminatory regime , strong rule of law and good governance . we be clear that , where we negotiate ISDS , we will not hinder our inherent right to regulate in the public interest , include in area such as the environment and labour standard . I turn to new clause 7 , 9 , 10 and 13 , which focus on the impact that this deal will have on our business and our economy . the Government want UK business to benefit from the ambitious provision in the cptpp as far as possible after we accede , and we be work to raise awareness of the agreement and ensure that business have the knowledge they need to take advantage of the opportunity that CPTPP will present when it enter into force for the UK . new clause 8 , table by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , focus on labour standard . I notice that there be no official Labour amendment focus on labour standard . maybe Labour do not care about labour any more , but I know that the right hon . Gentleman do . the CPTPP labour chapter include bind provision on fundamental labour right and on hour of work , health and safety , and minimum wage . it reaffirm CPTPP party ' obligation as member of the International Labour Organisation and require that party do not waive or derogate from their domestic labour law in order to encourage trade or investment . amendment 2 , also table by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington , relate to the conformity assessment regulation reference in the Bill . the amendment would allow change to the conformity assessment regulation only follow a motion to resolve against the ratification of the UK accession protocol first . I just think it would be unwise for we to pass an amendment to resolve against the ratification of UK accession in advance . this have be a wide - range debate , and we have debate important issue . I particularly want to minute my thank to my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green , who have rightly raise important question about our trade with China , and to other right hon . and hon . friend who have support the process of the UK accede to CPTPP . I do not want to tempt fate , but this might be my last chance to speak on our accession in this House before the UK formally ratify join CPTPP . I and , I believe , the whole Government passionately believe that CPTPP offer a great future for the UK , and I have see our accession through from be a novel idea in 2017 to ratification , and hopefully accession , in 2024 . not many of we in this place have be able to do that over a seven - year period , and I be grateful to all my ministerial colleague , successive Prime Ministers who have support CPTPP and my excellent Department for International Trade and Department for Business and Trade official for be with I on this very exciting journey . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . New Clause 4 - report : accession of new state to the cptpp " ( 1 ) before any decision be make by the Government on the accession of a new state to CPTPP under chapter 30 of the CPTPP , the Secretary of State must publish a report assess the potential benefit and impact of the accession of that candidate state on the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) both Houses of Parliament must be present with a motion for resolution on the report under subsection ( 1 ) . " — ( Gareth Thomas . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Gavin Robinson Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Milling Ruth Edwards the House divide : Ayes 224 , Noes 301 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 5 - review : Investor - State Dispute Settlement " the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a review of the financial risk of the implementation of the Investor - State Dispute Settlement aspect of the Investment chapter of the CPTPP , not more than 18 month after the day on which this Act be pass . " — ( Gareth Thomas . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Milling Ruth Edwards the House divide : Ayes 217 , Noes 305 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 10 - report on economic impact of implementation of CPTPP " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish a report on the economic impact of the implementation of the CPTPP . ( 2 ) a report publish under subsection ( 1 ) must include an analysis compare the respective situation for each of the matter list in subsection ( 3 ) prior to the implementation of the CPTPP with the situation post the implementation of the CPTPP . ( 3 ) the matter which must be include in the comparative analysis contain in the report lay under subsection ( 1 ) be — ( a ) the UK ' s trade in good ; ( b ) the UK ' s trade in service ; and ( c ) UK gdp . " — ( Richard Thomson . ) this new clause would require the Government to publish a comparative analysis of the impact of the implementation of the CPTPP on UK trade and GDP . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Peter Grant Kirsty Blackman Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Daniel Poulter Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Milling Ruth Edwards the House divide : Ayes 218 , Noes 305 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 12 - Impact assessment : UK performer ' right " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish an assessment of the impact of the implementation of performer ' right provision in the CPTPP . ( 2 ) the impact assessment under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) consideration of the impact of performer ' right provision on qualify individual in the UK ; ( b ) an assessment of the reciprocity of right across qualifying country ; ( c ) consultation with such person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . " — ( Sarah Green . ) this new clause would mean the Government must publish an assessment of the impact the performer ' s right provision in the CPTPP will have on qualify individual in the UK . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Milling Ruth Edwards the House divide : Ayes 219 , Noes 306 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I would like to thank member across the House and noble Lords in the other place for the interest they have show in this legislation throughout its passage . the Bill may be narrow in scope , but the underlying agreement it relate to and the benefit it could bring for british business , the economy and the british people be wide - ranging . by accede to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , we will strengthen our tie with some of the world ' s most dynamic economy and gain great access to the Indo - Pacific region , which will account for the majority of global growth and around half of the world ' s middle - class consumer in the decade to come . crucially , accede to the CPTPP will mean improved market access for UK exporter in exist cptpp party , include Malaysia and Brunei — our very first free trade deal with these fast - grow economy . in turn , the partnership will simplify supply chain and cut cost for innovative firm base here in the UK , such as Wrightbus , a long - establish family - own Northern Ireland bus manufacturer , which will benefit from opportunity to import part at low tariff from Malaysia . we have also agree more liberal rule of origin with Malaysia , make it simple for british brand such as Jaguar Land Rover to export British - design , British - make vehicle to that market at low tariff . however , our future accession will be good not just for british business sell their good abroad but for consumer here at home . it could provide consumer with wide choice and cheap price at the supermarket checkout , on everything from chilean and peruvian fruit juice to honey and chocolate from Mexico . inward investment in the UK by CPTPP party will be encourage when we accede , build on some £ 182 billion - worth of investment in job - create project in 2021 alone . as hon . member will know , the Bill affect the whole of the UK . clause 3 and the part of the schedule relate to Government procurement engage the Sewel convention , so we have seek legislative consent from the Scottish Parliament , the Senedd and the Northern Ireland Assembly . let I reassure hon . member that there have be regular engagement with the devolved Administrations before the Bill be introduce and throughout its passage at both ministerial and official level . I thank the devolved Administrations ' Ministers and their team for work so constructively with we . it be in part thank to their effort that the Scottish Parliament pass a legislative consent motion in February . the Welsh Government publish a legislative consent motion on 5 March and recommend that consent be grant to clause 3 and relevant part of the schedule . due to a mis - step during the moving and consideration of the motion , that legislative consent be not grant . I understand there be plan for a further Senedd vote on legislative consent for clause 3 and relevant part of the schedule . however , in the event that a further vote be not schedule in the Senedd before Royal Assent , the UK Government will proceed with the Bill without consent from Wales . member will know that the Northern Ireland Assembly be suspend when the Bill be introduce last November , which prevent we from seek legislative consent at that time . however , my Department have engage with Northern Ireland official throughout this period , provide they with update as the Bill have progress through Parliament . I thank the Secretary of State for her positive remark about all the region of the United Kingdom , which be good to hear . in her discussion with the Northern Ireland Assembly , have there be an opportunity to engage with the business in Northern Ireland that have be hold thing together , and the Ulster Farmers ' Union ? the Secretary of State be always energetic when it come to pursue those matter , but it be important to have that reassurance . the hon . Gentleman raise a good point , and he be quite right . my right hon . Friend Minister for Trade Policy have engage with they . in fact , upon the return of the Northern Ireland Assembly , he write to the Minister for Finance at the early opportunity to request legislative consent . I be grateful that the Minister agree with the Bill ' s devolution analysis and , in principle , to begin the legislative consent process . nevertheless , we still face a challenge timeline and a press need for the Bill to complete its passage . that be vital to allow for secondary legislation to be make and for ratification of the UK ' s accession protocol . as such , we can not delay passage of the Bill to allow the Northern Ireland Executive and Assembly great time to consider legislative consent . that would jeopardise all the current ratification timeline . I recognise that the legislative consent process be normally conclude before the last amending stage in the second House . give the timing of the return of the Northern Ireland Assembly , that have be extremely challenging , but I believe it be still right that we allow the Northern Ireland Executive and Assembly as much time as we can to consider our request . in the event that legislative consent be not grant by the Northern Ireland Assembly before the deadline for Royal Assent , we will still have to proceed . fail to do so would compromise the commitment we have make in our accession protocol . on Second Reading , I outline the wealth of benefit that will come with the UK ' s accession to the cptpp : the growth - spur and business - boost effect it will have on our economy . since that time , we have have some spirited and worthwhile debate . I would particularly like to thank the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) and for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) for the constructive manner in which they scrutinise the legislation . I commend those member who sit on the Public Bill Committee , include my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) and the hon . member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Rupa Huq ) , who show their great expertise as Chairs . I also thank the Minister for Trade Policy , my right hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) for expertly shepherd this legislation through the House with his consummate skill and good humour , and for deliver what appear to be a clean Bill . I will let member review Hansard to see how many time my right hon . friend remind the hon . member for Harrow West that he vote for CRaG . I think I hear that quite a lot throughout the debate . it would be remiss of I not to mention a number of other Members by name for their value input throughout the Bill ' s passage , include my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) , whose Second read speech and intervention make an excellent case not just for UK accession to CPTPP , but for the benefit of free trade more generally . I be also grateful to he for highlight the scrutiny provide by the recent Trade and Agriculture Commission report on the UK ' s agreement to accede to the CPTPP — a report that state that the CPTPP do not require the UK to change its level of statutory protection in relation to animal or plant life , health , animal welfare or environmental protection . on Second Reading , we also hear useful insight from several of the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy , notably my hon . friend the Members for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) and for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) , as well as from the hon . member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) . the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , bring a critical eye to bear on aspect of the underlie agreement , on which I hope he have now be reassure . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) rightly champion the UK ' s high food and animal welfare standard that the Government will continue to protect , and my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) demonstrate his well - hone ability to probe legislation with regard to the future potential accession of economy to the CPTPP . the Business and Trade Committee more broadly have my thank for its engagement with , and scrutiny of , this important Bill . this legislation will help to ensure that the UK meet its international obligation upon accession to the CPTPP . when the Bill achieve Royal Assent , it will mean that we have put the UK at the heart of a dynamic group of country in the Indo - Pacific , provide new opportunity for british company to sell more of their high - quality good and service to a market of over 500 million people and a combined gdp of £ 9 trillion . with that in mind , and in the hope that it will therefore garner support from all hon . and right hon . member , I be pleased to commend the Bill to the House . we support the UK ' s accession to the CPTPP . despite the concern we raise during the Bill ' s stage , we have not stand in the way of its passage through this House thus far and we do not intend to divide the House on Third Reading . we recognise the geopolitical benefit and the economic benefit , limit none the less as they be likely to be in the near future . in Committee , we outline a series of concern about the inclusion of provision on the investor - state dispute settlement , and its implication for the NHS , the environment and worker ’ right . we raise concern about performer ' s right and why on earth the Government choose to launch a consultation on the provision after the Bill have already begin make its way through Parliament — talk about put the cart before the horse . we also raise environmental concern , probe Ministers about deforestation , palm oil , increase carbon emission , the use of pesticide , threat to indigenous wildlife , and the undermining of the UK ' s commitment to combat climate change and preserve biodiversity . the Secretary of State promise a debate on CPTPP under the CRaG process to the Business and Trade Committee . in Committee , we be also promise a debate on CPTPP by the Minister under CRaG , which have not happen . I say it gently to they both : sadly , it be one more example of Ministers duck scrutiny of the trade deal they sign . it be almost as if they have something to hide . we have be grateful in particular to the TUC , Chester Zoo , the World Wildlife Fund , the Trade Justice Movement , Transform Trade , the National Farmers Union , the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Alliance for Intellectual Property for their help in ensure that we fully understand the implication of the Bill . I be grateful for their generosity with their time and expertise . one can not help feel that have the Government initiate a thorough consultation exercise much early in the proceeding , before the cptpp be a do deal , we might have come out of the negotiation as less of a rule - taker and with a well deal for the UK . well consultation with the nation and region could have happen throughout the whole cptpp process , but both the Scottish and the Welsh Governments lament poor communication at key stage from Ministers . hopefully lesson have be learn , and we will all have to take the opportunity of the CPTPP review in 2026 to look at what more can be achieve . I thank all the member of the Public Bill Committee . I particularly thank my fellow shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , for his invaluable contribution , help and support during the Bill ' s passage , but I also thank my hon . friend the Members for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) , for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) , for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) and for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) for their time and commitment to that part of the scrutiny process . I thank member on both side of the House , and those in the Lords , who — on Second Reading , in Committee and on Report — have join in the hard yard , the necessary work , of scrutinise what be a key trade arrangement . I thank the Minister of State , too , for his particularly generous description of I in Committee as a " serial rebel " — which might surprise one or two — and I thank both he and the Secretary of State for their other contribution , some of which have be helpful . [ laughter . ] I hope that the dialogue , especially that on the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants and on performer ' right , will continue , and I thank the Ministers for their letter to I on those issue . the UK ' s join the CPTPP will not make up for the Government ' s failure to deliver a good trade deal with Europe , or the Conservatives ' break manifesto commitment that 80 % of the world would be cover by new trade agreement — include a trade deal with India , which the Secretary of State herself say this month be highly unlikely to happen any time soon . we remain in the dark as to whether we will ever be task with scrutinise a UK - Canada trade deal , or whether negotiation be indeed ongoing , as the Minister say , or they be not , as the Canadians say . what we do know be that , while the Government have make some outlandish claim about the benefit of the UK ' s join the cptpp , it be likely , as the Office for Budget Responsibility have say , to lead to just a slight increase in gdp " in the long run " . with export have drop last year and set to drop far this year , and give the three follow year of anaemic growth in export , even the small opportunity for growth be welcome . the Bill be need to incorporate the CPTPP agreement in domestic legislation , and that be something that we do not oppose . there be benefit to join , and despite reservation , we certainly welcome the opportunity that will be open up for some british business . for those reason , as I have say , we will not stand in the way of the Bill ' s complete its passage tonight . it be a pleasure to speak on Third Reading . I must admit that I have hope we would be close to the moment of interruption at this stage , because there be further business on the Order Paper relate to energy strategy , which I speak about early in the Delegated Legislation Committee ; but even I do not want to test the patience of the House by speak for the good part of an hour . this be a truly monumental moment for the United Kingdom . have leave the European Union , we be plant our flag around the world and make sure that we drive free trade . it be right to believe , on the basis of all the evidence , that free trade be good for this country , and good for prosperity throughout the world . I feel an element of sadness about some of the trade agreement make when we be in the European Union , as it seem that some of the poor country in the world be be deprive of a proper trading relationship . I refer to the trend whereby it be still only sub - saharan african nation that truly be exceptionally poor ; unfortunately , at time it feel as though those country be be deprive of a lot of prosperity due to EU protectionism , but we now have the opportunity to branch out on our own in that regard . we should remember that a lot of african nation be our brother and sister in the Commonwealth . of course I understand that World Trade Organisation regulation apply to everybody , but it be important that we try to factor in what we can do to get wealth to as many nation as possible , because that would be good for this country and for other around the world . the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) say that there be no consultation . actually , the consultation journey start in 2018 . I think it be initiate when my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) be the Trade Secretary . my right hon . friend the Members for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , and for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , and the person who really cement the deal — the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my right hon . friend the Member for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) — have really take we on that journey . we should give the Prime Minister credit for his proactive approach to trade , and the red line that he be prepared to draw for our farmer , recognise that we have some of the good farming and food production in the world . those red line be not about try to be protectionist , but reasonable standard , the prosperity of our nation and ensure a two - way street . in my time as Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , this work really matter . I be conscious of the discussion that have take place , and I appreciate that it can seem frustrating that we be only involve after the trade negotiation , in ratify the agreement , but I can assure the House that it be imperative that we get the balance right when it come to value and red line . I again pay tribute to the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister for secure a really good deal . it be important that we take advantage of this treaty . there be certainly far more agricultural attach é s now . it be important that people do not just focus on what might be import into this country and what that mean for standard , because we have be very strong on the standard agree in this treaty . in fact , we have more problem with the fact that there be not the same animal welfare standard across the European Union ; we need to work on that as part of our ongoing relationship , and as part of our free trade agreement with the EU . there be other factor of concern ; for example , there be the fact that production cost be a lot low in some of the 11 other member state of the treaty . we have the living wage , but we also have access to grant and thing like robotic milking machine — something I never think I would see , but which , as I see at the Great Yorkshire Show last year , work exceptionally well . one of the key measure in the Agriculture Act 2020 be bring in to validate people ' s concern . that be why I want to pay tribute to the Trade and Agriculture Commission , which produce a pretty hefty report after establish its initial term of reference . the process start in July 2023 and the report be publish in December 2023 , and be design to cover issue of environmental protection , animal and plant life or health , and animal welfare . it be worth read . the key question that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State ask the commission be : " do CPTPP require the UK to change its level of statutory protection " in all those area ? the report basically say , " no , we don ' t need to . in fact , WTO rule mean that we can keep our statutory protection in all these area , and there be no impact on our ability to adopt statutory protection in the future and to maintain the one we have . " that really matter , because at the time , other nation — and , dare I say it , environmental group here — be try to bring lot of different element into the discussion . as I say , I will not keep the House as long as I have originally intend , but I should like to mention malaysian palm oil , and hormone - treat beef and similar ; absolutely no way will the United Kingdom allow that sort of product into this country . we certainly make sure that be a red line . I be conscious that Third reading will be agree , but I want to say a few extra thing on issue raise by the National Farmers Union . it be really important that we take they seriously . we say that we would look at all the standard when we go into new trade deal , and the Trade and Agriculture Commission do a very thorough job , for which I commend it . the NFU would like we to go even far on domestic production standard . importantly , we be now part of this global treaty , and we do not seek to require other to re - ratify the law in their country by add element . all the member state be already party to various international convention on the environment , and it be important to note that we have new ally . as we take this step forward and try to increase trade , we need to make sure that we can share our learning and understanding , and show how it add value . I genuinely believe that when we start to increase significantly the number of agricultural product that we send to other part of the world through this treaty , it will show that those food can be sell at a premium . I be fortunate enough in my time in government to visit some of the country in the cptpp . most recently , I visit Vietnam . such visit be important for make sure that good standard be in place , and that those country be our friend in the future . several of the country be already in the G20 or the Commonwealth , and we also have some new friend . it be important that we continue to respect that , because at time it feel as though we diminish what other country do to take trade forward . I do say that I be not plan to speak for an hour , much to the joy of people in this Chamber , I be sure . I fully endorse this treaty . it be good for our farmer and our country , because it mean that we can reduce tariff on a number of product , include those that can be onshore and put into our freeport , so that we can increase the value of our manufacturing . I wish this treaty well and , as I say , look forward to all the trade and prosperity that will come for the United Kingdom , but also for people around the world . may I take this opportunity to thank the Clerks for all the assistance that they have give throughout the scrutiny process , and to offer heartfelt thank to the researcher who support my group for the help that they have give I throughout the passage of this Bill ? those on the Treasury Bench will no doubt be delighted to hear that the SNP will not seek to divide the House on this Bill . we have never say that there could not be advantage from the CPTPP , but we could not be clear that it offer a poor substitute for the trade deal that be leave behind as a result of our leave the European Union . let we remind ourselves that , with the cptpp , we have essentially swap the four freedom of the european single market — a market of half a billion consumer , right on our doorstep — for an agreement with a combined economy of almost half the size on the opposite side of the world , which take only 8 % of our export . it seem to be a bit like put an Elastoplast on an amputation . the Government ' s impact assessment , which I know be highly contest , even by the Government themselves , indicate that the long - term increase in trade will be worth £ 2 billion a year , or 0 . 06 % of gdp . we be all aware of the parable of the hare and the tortoise , but I be not sure that many tortoise could live long enough to make up that ground . whatever benefit do arise — at this point in time , they look distant and minimal at good — they will always and forever be less than we could have have in different circumstance . along with other , throughout the passage of the Bill , I have seek to warn the Government that they should find a way to quantify the impact of CPTPP , and the risk right across a range of sector that will be affect by it . we will remain vigilant , and will hold the Government to account , where the outcome justify it . I suppose that I should not disturb the bonhomie that there have be , but one big question remain : will all those on the Front Bench be reunite to discuss any further trade deal before the Prime Minister have to call an election ? I await the answer with bated breath . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft reporting on Payment Practices and Performance ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 January , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , term and Conditions of Employment that the draft National Minimum Wage ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 January , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft Strategy and Policy Statement for Energy Policy in Great Britain , which be lay before this House on 21 February , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) as many as be of that opinion , say aye . to the contrary , no . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) have make her objection clear , but I will take it on the voice , so the Ayes have it . question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Agriculture that the draft Fair Dealing Obligations ( Milk ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 1 March , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Assistance to Industry that this House authorise the Secretary of State to undertake to pay , and to pay by way of financial assistance under section 8 of the Industrial Development Act 1982 , a grant or grant exceed £ 30 million and up to a total of £ 75 million to BMW to support the production of electric Minis at Plant Oxford . — ( Suzanne Webb ) Question agree to . Petition - Traffic Congestion and Road Safety in Rother Valley I rise to deliver a petition on behalf of my constituent in Rother Valley , call on Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council to work alongside the Sheffield Mayoral Combined Authority to implement measure to combat traffic congestion and speeding in the village of Aughton and at the Ulley - Treeton crossroad . the petition , online and on paper , sign by over 2 , 300 of my constituent , demand action to combat congestion and poor road safety around the crossroad and in the village . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Rother Valley , declare that measure be need to combat traffic congestion and speeding in the village of Aughton and Guilthwaite ; far that the Treeton Lane / Main Street / Pleasley Road and Ulley Lane crossroad require a road safety and traffic management scheme ; and far that road safety measure be need at the Robin Hood pub junction in Aston as expand housing estate nearby be put increase pressure on this junction , make safe emergence difficult and time consume . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to call on Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council to work alongside the Sheffield Mayoral Combined Authority and that they consider the use of funding from the City Region Sustainable Transport Settlements scheme to devise a package of improvement to Pleasley Road and Ulley Crossroads that promote road safety and active travel , and support public transport expansion to ease congestion . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P002924 ] Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present two petition this evening from the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk . the first relate to the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . infected blood seem to I to be the big single scandal in our lifetime . there be no mention in the Budget of provide compensation ; that , I fear , be a miss opportunity . just how long will the victim and their family have to wait ? the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002930 ] Petition - Pensioners ' Personal Tax Allowance Mr Day , would you like to speak to the second petition and then bring they both together ? it seem a waste of energy to present they individually . my partner say that I need to lose a bit of weight , so she might disagree with that , but I think that be a sensible decision . the second petition that I be present from the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk relate to pensioner ' personal tax allowance . I have say before that the deal that pensioner in the UK get be among the bad in Europe , and unfortunately this year ' s spring Budget have ignore the fiscal drag that pensioner be experience , by freeze the personal tax allowance until April 2028 . this disproportionately affect many on low income , include our pensioner . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk Regrets that the Chancellor ' s Spring Budget ignore the fiscal drag that pensioner be experience due to the policy on freeze Personal Tax allowance until April 2028 ; declare that this policy disproportionately affect pensioner who do not gain from cut to National Insurance ; note this policy create poor pensioner who be already impact by the cost - of - living crisis . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the soar cost of food and energy bill for pensioner when set the Personal Tax allowance . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002931 ] Music Education Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) I rise to speak about the change to funding for music education hub . this Government have make an important and worthwhile commitment to a vision of enable all child and young people to learn how to sing , to learn how to play a musical instrument and to have the opportunity to progress their musical interest and talent , include professionally , if that be what they want to do . the 2022 national music plan publish three key aim for music hub : first , to support school and other education setting to deliver high - quality music education ; secondly , to support young people to far develop their musical interest and talent , include into employment in some case ; and thirdly , to support all child and young people to engage with a range of musical opportunity in and out of school . by 2018 , record number of child be learn instrument because of this Government ' s action . as my right hon . friend the Schools Minister will know , music education hub have be fund nationally to the level of around £ 75 million to £ 80 million a year since their inception under this Conservative Government in 2012 , which be sometimes refer to as the national music grant . however , the national music grant , which fund the function of the music hub lead , have rise by only 1 % since 2012 . during this time , the Bank of England inflation calculator show inflation run at 37 % . as I be sure the House understand , it have therefore always be a challenge for music hub to maintain their exceptional level of service up and down the country . my Northampton North constituency be home to a great many talented young musician and performer . I spy many Northamptonshire Members in the House today , and they will know the value of music in their constituency . I commend the right hon . and learn Gentleman for secure the debate . he be right that music encourage we all , and not just in Northamptonshire . the Education Authority in Northern Ireland support 689 primary and post - primary school to provide musical learning to student . these be fantastic opportunity , but some course cost £ 140 , which be a disadvantage . in Northern Ireland we have a tradition of flute band , pipe band , accordion band and brass band , and they be associate with people who come from my tradition , as member will know . such band also give opportunity for young people to learn an instrument . when it come to music , we in Northern Ireland have the well part of the deal . I know that the hon . Gentleman and I would be singe from the same hymn sheet . his melodious tone resonate daily in this House , and on this subject , as on so many other , we be in complete agreement . he will know , as will other member , that I be a former Culture Minister , so that please I greatly . music hub have a vital role in provide high - quality music education to 87 % of school in England , as well as provide support outside school . the right hon . and learn Gentleman rightly say that music hub have effectively be on standstill funding for a decade , during a time of increase cost , staff pay , venue hire and utility bill . I be sure that he will be move on to discuss that , but I wish to add to it by set out that the threat to the financial security of music hub be a real concern . these hub be often the only provider of instrumental tuition — at no cost or in heavily subsidise form — in state school . we have what be start to be consider a crisis in music education , give that the number of young musician be teach at advanced level by music hub have halve over the past decade , and sadly there be now 20 , 000 few state school band , orchestra , ensemble and choir than there be seven year ago , so this be a timely debate . do the right hon . and learn Gentleman agree that by not address the funding issue , which I hope he be go to come on to , the Government risk lose music teacher , musician and audience member , as well as fail to give child access to an activity that hold so many benefit for their academic , social and emotional development ? I will be come on to the funding aspect , but the hon . Lady speak of the value of music and that be the point I be make . many school serve my constituency and other in Northamptonshire offer tremendous music education . Northampton School for Boys , which border my constituency and have a catchment area for Northampton North and Northampton South , regularly stage production and concert of the high standard . Northampton School for Girls be the first specialist music college in the country . Malcom Arnold Academy have a strong music basis , as one can see from its name , with Ofsted have describe the quality of music provision at that school as " exceptional " . child at Headlands Primary School be expose to music education from a very young age , with weekly singing class from reception . so this be characteristic of not only my constituency , but all the constituency in Northamptonshire and , doubtless , elsewhere . that strong sense of the importance of introduce child to music in Northampton North be root in the Northamptonshire Music and Performing Arts Trust — NMPAT . it be establish as an independent charitable company in 2012 , after function for 40 year as the local authority music service . in May 2012 it be designate as the Government ' s music and education hub lead for Northamptonshire , and later it become the hub lead for the county of Rutland as well . the Andrew Lloyd Webber Foundation have describe the importance of music education in the follow instructive term : " engagement in the art and heritage enriche live , unlock creative potential , improve skill , change behaviour , increase confidence , and should be available to all . in order to maintain vibrancy in the art , it be critical that the next generation of diverse artist be nurture and encourage . " we have already hear from a representative of the Province of Northern Ireland , and I be so pleased that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland be on the Front Bench . he be unable to speak from the Front Bench this evening , as be the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , who be also present . I be sure that , as fellow Northamptonshire mp , they will agree on the importance of music education . NMPAT embody that ethos wholly and fully , and , as a former Culture Minister , I strongly agree with it and understand it . the range of opportunity provide by that organisation be enrich and they be plentiful around Northamptonshire and Rutland : my right hon . and learn Friend be make an excellent speech , and I congratulate he on secure the debate . do he agree that NMPAT ' s reach across all of our constituency in Northamptonshire be truly impressive ? last year it educate in music more than 53 , 000 child and young people , with its dedicated staff of 200 employee . be that not an example that other music hub should follow ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend , because he be absolutely right . there be 1 , 000 child involve in NMPAT ' s award - win music and drama group alone , and NMPAT be the big provider of music lesson in Northamptonshire , which include his constituency . NMPAT currently teach 15 , 000 child on a range of musical instrument and in a variety of musical style in school , through whole - class and individual lesson . it have 11 Saturday music and perform art centre and three contemporary centre at venue across the county . the centre be open to everybody and they exist to provide an educational and fun environment for any person interested in the art . NMPAT have also have overwhelming success in the Music for Youth national festival , by regularly have group feature in the top Royal Albert Hall Music for Youth Proms , and we be very proud of they . annual orchestra tour to Europe be also organise . later this year , the County Youth Orchestra in Northamptonshire and the County Youth Choir will be travel to Zaragoza in Spain for a series of concert . as my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Mr Hollobone ) have point out , NMPAT interact with 52 , 000 child every year , and that be just Northamptonshire and Rutland . it be important to emphasise the reach and impact that NMPAT have in order to display just how important its service be . one of my own staff member here in Parliament , Callum Dineen , be a student in NMPAT for five year and have tell I of the overwhelmingly positive effect that the organisation have have on his life . through the opportunity it provide , NMPAT help child to find the match that light a creative fuse , and that can not be underestimate . this fuse often burn throughout adolescence and into adulthood , ignite a love for the art , which not only enrich those in our country now , but be pass on to future generation . hard work , an eye for detail and a drive to succeed be value teach at NMPAT , which translate into all other area of life . social skill and opportunity to make new friend through music be provide to child who might otherwise feel leave out in school setting . it be for all of those reason that I be so concerned when the chief executive of NMPAT , Peter Smalley , contact I with his grave concern about the future of his organisation , and he be watch this debate today . NMPAT , as the music hub lead , have a turnover of £ 4 . 5 million . that include £ 1 . 13 million of core hub grant from Government . payment for service from parent and school make up the majority of the remain turnover . but , in the two year since the pandemic , NMPAT have use substantial amount of its reserve to rebuild , regrow , and restimulate activity across the two county , to achieve level of engagement and activity close to pre - pandemic level . this be clearly only ever go to be a short - term option , and I be sorry to say that these reserve have now be exhaust . in addition to the current funding challenge pose by the pandemic and the frozen national music grant , the organisation be now gravely concerned about the effect of lose a grant that cover increase employer contribution for the teacher ' pension scheme , and that be the thrust of what I wish to raise today . that scheme be introduce in 2019 , in common with other independent music service . this grant be worth £ 210 , 000 per annum to NMPAT , but it finish in August of this year . I be aware of a letter that my right hon . friend the Schools Minister send in response to correspondence send jointly by the Independent Society of Musicians , the Musicians ' Union and Music Mark in December last year , which address their concern about this issue . the Minister acknowledge that " incumbent and potential new Hub Lead Organisations have have over 12 month ' notice of this intention so that this can be carefully plan for well in advance . " I accept that , and although this notice period be welcome , it have now be make redundant , I be sorry to say , by an additional announcement of the 5 percentage point increase to employer contribution , which begin in April — imminently . although some support towards these cost have be intimate until September , the ISM , the Musicians ' Union and Music Mark rightly say that hub lead organisation have have " no way of planning " for this additional change . interestingly , these further additional cost will be fully fund for mainstream school and further education . local authority music service that employ teacher will also receive support . however , NMPAT and other music hub across the country be currently due to receive no assistance . this add an additional annual cost of £ 240 , 000 to NMPAT ' s budget . for NMPAT , the resultant total annual cost of employer contribution for the teacher ' pension scheme alone will be £ 1 . 15 million , which will be great than its national music grant of £ 1 . 13 million . it be axiomatic that other aspect of NMPAT service will suffer severely if its national music grant be swallow entirely by the new pension contribution , as be likely if nothing be do . as a result , Peter Smalley and other have be force to begin consultation with staff to take they out of the teacher ' pension scheme and offer an alternative workplace pension . rise — I give way to my constituency neighbour . my right hon . and learn Friend and I have both be strong supporter of NMPAT . I visit again recently and write about it in the local newspaper . the Department for Education have encourage flexibility and autonomy in music partnership . it be well for all school to be cover and for teacher skill to be utilise . that work , but only if it be do fairly , and the challenge to that fairness have , as he eloquently describe , come through the teacher ' pension scheme . do he agree that it would be quite wrong for music partnership not to be able to offer their teacher — those in state school right across Northamptonshire , for example — the same pension as their less peripatetic fellow professional ? my hon . friend make a powerful point . as he rightly say , he have be a powerful advocate for NMPAT , and I be so pleased that he be here in support . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for give way and for secure this important debate . it be not just Northamptonshire that be impact by these financial pressure on our wonderful musical hub ; West Yorkshire be , too . I be very fortunate to have Musica Kirklees in my neck of the wood . its music director Nick Dolling have be in touch with I about this issue . previously , it be lead by the inspirational Thom Meredith , who produce a stream of talented young musician for local brass band , choir , Slaithwaite Philharmonic Orchestra and many more , to the extent that we have the world - champion Lindley School choir , lead by Alison North , in my neck of the wood . we also have the Mrs Sunderland festival and the Haydn Wood musical festival in Linthwaite . there be so much musical heritage , but the people involve be now worried about exactly the financial pressure that my right hon . and learn Friend have mention . may I just say that we in West Yorkshire be with he in this campaign ? I look forward to hear from the Minister . I be very grateful to my hon . friend . he be right that West Yorkshire and county up and down the country be affect in that way . I be pleased that he be here and in agreement . this further disruption be demoralise for the workforce . that be the effect of what Peter Smalley and the other head of hub have have to do , because it carry the inherent risk of a talent drain and recruitment crisis . NMPAT be also undertake a full internal financial review to establish where cut and saving can be make . it be inevitable that some service currently be deliver will be lose , and that cost for parent and school will rise , perhaps by as much as 20 % . it have become clear that this be a worrying time not just for NMPAT , but for music education hub up and down the country . I be concerned not just for the hub that be have to make difficult decision , but for organisation that perhaps might not be fully aware of the detail of the change that be about to occur . music hub make cut to their budget , which reduce service and outreach , be a situation that we should not allow to occur because of the important impact that music education have . the Minister ' s predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , say : " I believe all child , regardless of their background , should have the same opportunity and that ' s why it ' s so good to see that our music hub be reach so many . " however , these change be place the viability of music hub under threat . as a hugely successful music hub lead , NMPAT should be look to expand the number of child it interact with every year , not face the unpalatable decision to make cut to its service . I be aware that the Department for Education have confirm that there will be some funding to cover the employer pension contribution , and that a formula to agree allocation be be work on . when the Minister reply in a moment , would he be able to provide more detail on that formula and on whether NMPAT can expect a grant to cover those cost ? it also strike I that the saving make by this cost - cut measure will be rather small . accord to Music Mark , the cut to the teacher ' pension scheme allowance will save his Majesty ' s Government only around £ 1 . 2 million , which the House may think be a modest sum in the grand scheme of thing . furthermore , I be tell it have be estimate that treat music teacher in independent music hub lead organisation equitably with schoolteacher by provide a grant for their pension scheme would cost only around £ 2 million annually . be the cost of the effect of this policy change on NMPAT and other music education hub around the country worth those relatively modest saving ? my right hon . and learn Friend continue to make an excellent speech . perhaps we could hear from the Minister his thinking about the principle that my right hon . and learn Friend be highlight : why should the Government fully fund extra employer contribution for teacher in school who be deliver the Government ' s national curriculum , but not fully fund the extra contribution for teacher employ to deliver the Government ' s national plan for music education ? why be that such an important point of principle when the cost involve be so small ? I be sure our right hon . friend the Minister have hear those point . I be come to my conclusion now , so hopefully he will have the opportunity to address they . we must not forget that music be not just important to the welfare and wellbee of so many of our young people — and indeed people of all age — but a great addition to the economy of this country . accord to UK Music , the music industry ' s contribution to the UK economy in 2022 be £ 6 . 7 billion , and our UK music export generate £ 4 billion . our country ' s great cultural offering be clearly enjoy by many people at home and abroad . british music be famous around the world , and we should be encourage young people to contribute to the UK ' s music economy . as with any issue , I choose to look at this matter proportionally , and would argue that the benefit of scrap this grant do not outweigh the impact . I respectfully request that the Minister be willing to look again at this matter and provide assurance to Peter Smalley , NMPAT and other music education hub up and down the country that his Majesty ' s Government will do all they can to support their important work , and that their outreach will not be adversely affect . I congratulate my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) on secure a debate on this important subject , and on what be an unusually well - attend Adjournment debate . I thank all his colleague — all our colleague — from Northamptonshire for be here . my right hon . and learn Friend be a former art Minister , and I commend he on the great work he do in that role , include his very important work on public library as well as on music . I know that music be a subject very close to his heart , as it be to the heart of so many of we in this place , include my own . my right hon . and learn Friend mention my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) . as our right hon . friend have often say , study and engage with music be not a privilege , but a vital part of a broad and ambitious curriculum . all pupil should have access to an excellent music education and all the knowledge and joy it bring . this be why music be part of the national curriculum for all maintain school from the age of five to 14 , and why the Government expect that academy should teach music as part of their statutory requirement to promote pupil ' cultural development . music , like every subject , be generally fund by school through their core budget . in the November 2022 autumn statement , we announce an additional £ 2 billion in each of 2023 - 24 and 2024 - 25 , over and above the total that have be announce at the 2021 spending review . in July 2023 , we announce an additional £ 525 million this year to support school with the teacher ' pay award , and £ 900 million in 2024 - 25 . the Government have continue to provide additional funding , over and above school budget , to enable child and young people to access high - quality music and art education . from 2016 to 2022 we invest £ 714 million , and we be invest £ 115 million per year up to 2025 . altogether , since 2016 , this sum to close to £ 1 billion for a diverse portfolio of organisation over those year . that sum include £ 79 million a year for music hub , as be mention by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North and by the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) , who be no long in her place . Hubs provide specialist music education service to around 87 % of state - fund school , and over £ 30 million a year go to the music and dance scheme , which provide means - test bursary to over 2 , 000 young people show the great potential in those art form . it also include a grow cohort of national youth music organisation , with new addition such as the National Open Youth Orchestra , which work with young disabled people , and UD , which run programme include Flames Collective , its flagship pre - vocational creative development programme . it be great to see Flames Collective perform with Raye at this year ' s Brits . as part of the refresh plan , the Government continue to invest £ 79 million a year in music hub , as well as provide an additional £ 25 million of funding for musical instrument . on the teacher ' pension scheme — the TPS , as it be commonly know — the Department for Education have secure £ 1 . 25 billion to support eligible setting with the increase employer contribution rate in financial year 2024 - 25 . that will mean additional funding of £ 9 . 3 million for local authority for centrally employ teacher , include those employ in local authority - base music hub . the Department have publish the detail of the additional funding for mainstream school , high need and local authority with centrally employ teacher . I can also confirm that the Department be commit to provide funding to cover the increase in employer contribution rate for exist non - local authority hub for the current academic year — that is , until August 2024 — and official be work to agree the precise amount . further detail , include funding rate and allocation , will be provide soon . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North will know there be a music hub competition in progress . follow its conclusion , which be due to be announce next month , the Department will work with Arts Council England to set final grant allocation for the newly compete hub lead organisation that will take over from September . as part of that work , due consideration will be give to additional pension pressure due to the increase in employer contribution through the tps . we know that , while potential be equally spread throughout the country , opportunity be not . as part of level up , our plan be to provide an additional £ 2 million of funding to support the delivery of a music progression programme . this programme will support up to 1 , 000 disadvantaged pupil to learn how to play an instrument or sing to a high standard over a sustained period . further detail about the programme will be announce in the come week , once a national delivery partner have be appoint . we know that many school across the country deliver first - rate music lesson to pupil and offer high - quality extracurricular activity as well . however , we be also aware that there be some area where music provision may be more limited , and to address this a refreshed national plan for music education be publish in June 2022 . that plan clearly set out the ambition of the Government up to 2030 that every child , regardless of circumstance , need or geography , should have access to a high - quality music education — to learn to sing , play an instrument and create music together and have the opportunity to progress their musical interest and talent . I thank the Minister for his response so far . encouragingly , he be move in the right direction . do he recognise that Northamptonshire Music and Performing Arts Trust have warmly embrace the publication of the Government national plan for music education , the title of which be " the power of music to change life " ? be the Minister impress by the reach of NMPAT to over 53 , 000 child across Northamptonshire and Rutland ? not many music hub have that scale of reach . I echo my hon . friend ' s word about the power of music , and I join he in pay tribute to the great work of NMPAT . I do not have the statistic at my fingertip to assess where in the table , as it be , those thousand place it relative to other , but it certainly be a very impressive reach . the expectation set out in the plan , start from early year , be unashamedly ambitious , and inform by the excellent practice demonstrate by so many school , music hub and music charity around the country . as highlight in the ofsted " music subject " report publish late last year , we know some school do not allocate sufficient curriculum time to music . start this school year , school be now expect to teach music lesson for at least one hour each week of the school year for key stage 1 to 3 alongside provide extracurricular opportunity to learn an instrument and sing , and opportunity to play and sing together in ensemble and choir . we be monitor lesson time to ensure that that improve . another weakness in some school that be highlight in the ofsted report be the quality of the curriculum , in which there be insufficient focus on musical understanding and sequencing and progression . to support school to develop a high - quality curriculum we publish a model music curriculum in 2021 , and , base on a survey of school from last March , we understand that around 59 % of primary school and 43 % of secondary school be now implement that non - statutory guidance . we want to go far in support school with the music curriculum , which be why we publish a series of case study alongside the plan to highlight a variety of approach to deliver music education as part of the curriculum . we be also work with Oak National Academy , which publish its key stage 3 and 4 music curriculum sequence and exemplar lesson material late last year , with the full suite of resource to follow in the summer . while the refresh plan rightly focus on the place of music education in school , it also recognise that music hub have a vital role in support school and ensure that young people can access opportunity that school on their own might not be able to offer . I join colleague in pay tribute to the work of our music hub across the country , include the organisation who lead they and their partner , who for the past 12 year have work tirelessly to support music education . one such organisation be of course the Northamptonshire Music and Performing Arts Trust , which I be pleased to hear my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North speak of in such glow term . I join he in thank its chief executive , Peter Smalley , who I gather might be with we today . just last week I have the privilege of see the work of another music hub in Surrey . I be very impressed by all that its partnership be do to support school to provide high - quality music and offer amazing opportunity to young people also beyond the classroom . this year , hub have continue their excellent work against the backdrop of a re - competition of the lead organisation lead by Arts Council England . I recognise that that will not have be easy . as no announcement of which organisation will be lead the new hub have yet be make , Members will understand that I can not comment on the individual circumstance of any organisation currently in receipt of hub funding . from September a new network of 43 hub make up of hundred of organisation work in close partnership will continue to build on the outstanding legacy of the hub to date , and I offer my wholehearted thank to everyone who have play a part in the music hub story so far . it will be exciting to see how the new hub partnership develop and flourish with the support of the announce centre of excellence , once they be in place . one area where hub provide support to school be in help they to develop strong music development plan . this year we have invite every school to have a plan that consider how they and their hub will work together to improve the quality of music education . our sample survey of school leader last March show that slightly under half of school already have a music development plan in place . of those , the vast majority — nine in 10 — of school leader intend to review it for this school year . of those without a plan , nearly half report intend to put one in place this school year . I hope it will not be long before every school have a strong music development plan that set out how the vision of the national plan be be realise for their pupil . the quality of teaching remain the single most important factor in improve outcome for child , especially those from disadvantaged background . we plan to update our teacher recruitment and retention strategy and build on our reform to ensure that every child have an excellent teacher , and that include those teaching music . our strategy update will reflect on our progress on deliver our reform , as well as set out priority for the year ahead . for those start initial teacher training in music in academic year 2024 - 25 , we be offer tax - free bursary of £ 10 , 000 . that should help attract more music teacher into the profession and support school in deliver at least one hour of music lesson a week . the Government will also be place a strong emphasis on teacher development as part of the music hub programme in the future , include peer - to - peer support through new lead school in every hub . there be fantastic music education take place across the country . indeed , the opening remark of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North do a well job at bring that to life than I ever could . for my part , I offer and add my thank to every music teacher in every setting for all that they do , but there be still a lot to do to make our vision for music education become a reality for every child in every school . I be confident , however , that our reform be have an impact and will lead to concrete action that every school and trust can take to improve their music education provision . through partnership and collaboration with hub partner , we will ensure that all young people and child can have access to a high - quality music education . follow this excellent debate , I be go to go to a reception sponsor by Mr Speaker with the London Philharmonic Orchestra . it strike I that we have all the orchestra , sinfonietta , musical theatre and musician generally — all these incredible talent — and I wonder how many of they start their lifelong love affair with music by pick up a musical instrument in school . we be so fortunate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .