Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Palestinians in Gaza : US Policy what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of President Trump ' s proposal to move Palestinians from Gaza to neighbour arab state . we do not support force displacement of Palestinians or any reduction in the territory of the Gaza strip . Palestinians must be able to live and prosper in the occupy Palestinian Territories . that be why it be essential that we work together to ensure that all aspect of the ceasefire be implement and that it become permanent . it be very sad that the past month have mark a new and horrifying phase in the long history of attempt to ethnically cleanse the palestinian people from their homeland . President Trump ' s recent comment call for Palestinians to be expel from their home in Gaza , in order for the US to take over the land , along with his failure to rule out israeli annexation of the west bank , constitute the most explicit denial of the palestinian people ' s right to self - determination by any US Administration to date . will the Foreign Secretary therefore condemn President Trump ' s remark and set out what action the UK Government be take to prevent far force displacement of the palestinian people ? this House have watch with horror the loss of life in the Gaza strip particularly and the plight of the hostage hold in bunker under Gaza . the US play a pivotal role , and all credit should go to President Trump for brokering that negotiate ceasefire agreement . I be thankful for the role that the israeli Government , Qatar and Egypt play in get to that ceasefire . it be our belief , and this be a cross - party belief , that there should be a negotiate two - state solution : a sovereign palestinian state , which include , of course , the west bank and Gaza , alongside a safe and secure Israel . I have just be out in the middle east with the conservative Friends of Israel — I put that on the record before I ask my question . give Emily Damari ' s personal testimony to the Prime Minister that she be hold at United Nations Relief and Works Agency facility in Gaza during the conflict , and that her captor refuse her access to medical treatment , do the Foreign Secretary stand by the Government ' s decision to restart send UK taxpayer ' money to UNRWA when Hamas terrorist be hold british hostage at its facility , and when it have be crystal clear for month that UNRWA have many member of Hamas in its rank , include people involve in the 7 October terrorist attack , who have hold hostage ever since ? I think we be all pleased to see Emily Damari emerge ; of course , we have be in touch with the Damari family . as the right hon . Gentleman would expect , we have also be in touch with UNRWA — the Minister for Development raise this issue with Mr Lazzarini directly — which have instigate an investigation . the israeli force be now use the same tactic in the west bank as they use in Gaza : the forced displacement of community and the use of heavy weapon against civilian . what be the Government ' s response , both to Israel and to the UN ? be it not time that we respond to the advisory opinion ? my hon . friend raise a serious issue . as I have say repeatedly from the Dispatch Box , I condemn the expansion and the violence that we have see over the last period , and I reject the call for the annexation of the west bank . I meet Tom Fletcher of the UN recently to discuss these very same issue , and renew our commitment to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs — that humanitarian work be important . of course , at this time I have be in touch with the Israelis and with Prime Minister Mustafa as we discuss these issue together . back on 17 October 2023 , when the first hospital in Palestine be bomb , the al - Ahli arab hospital , much conversation be have about who could have commit such a heinous crime . since then , the israeli army have destroy all medical facility in Gaza , and now we have a President of the United States use gangster - style intimidation to forcibly remove palestinian people from their land . will the Foreign Secretary — who have repeatedly refuse to call out the israeli Government for the war crime they be commit , refuse to ban all arm sale , refuse to acknowledge that a genocide be happen and refuse even to consider economic sanction , because £ 6 . 1 billion be too high a price to pay — accept the reality of the situation and accept that Trump and Netanyahu ' s plan propose ethnic cleansing of the palestinian people in Gaza ? we be well under time , but I just need to get other member in . we be in the first phase of a ceasefire that we want to hold and go to phase 2 . that be the issue I be discuss with arab leader last week at the Munich security conference . the Quint group be work with President Trump to get to that third phase and the governance issue that will be so important , with the Palestinian Authority involve in Gaza . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . my thought continue to be with the hostage hold in Gaza and the appalling suffering they and their family be face . the world have see the brutality inflict by the iranian - sponsor terrorist , Hamas , who be a major obstacle to bring about a sustainable and just peace in the middle east . the Foreign Secretary have previously agree that there can not be any future whatsoever for Hamas control Gaza . can he provide an update on the action he have undertake to put an end to Hamas control and ensure we get to the third phase of the ceasefire ? will he discuss this issue when he go to America with the Prime Minister to meet the President of the United States ? I can confirm that I discuss this issue with Ron Dermer from the israeli Government last week . I discuss this issue with arab leader — the so - call Quint — the week before . in the end , we can not have a Gaza run by Hamas . all road lead back to Hamas . I think the world have look with horror at the scene of armed man wear bandana , seem to glorify murder and hostage who have be hold . of course , we will act with international colleague to make sure that Hamas have no role to play in the future of Gaza . tackle HIV and AIDS what progress his Department have make on tackle HIV and AIDS globally . investment in the Global Fund , Unitaid , UNAIDS — the joint UN Programme on HIV / AIDS — the World Health Organisation and other have help to cut new HIV infection by 60 % since 1995 and AIDS - relate death by 69 % since 2004 . I be pleased to meet HIV - positive activist in Parliament recently and to be videoe while undertake a quick and easy HIV test . together , we can eradicate HIV / AIDS . the Minister be aware that PEPFAR — the US President ' s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief — be the large and most successful global health programme and have save 25 million life . it have be advise that freeze PEPFAR will result in 228 , 000 few HIV test be carry out daily . UNAIDS predict that 6 . 3 million AIDS - relate death will occur if PEPFAR lack funding for the next five year . can the Minister ensure that the Foreign Office include HIV in all international discussion , especially at the G7 in Canada this year ? test and treatment be critical . I be pleased that the Prime Minister recently announce that , together with South Africa , the UK will co - host the eighth replenishment of the Global Fund to fight AIDS , Tuberculosis and Malaria . the Global Fund be the lead financier of the global fight against HIV / AIDS , and we will work with Canada to draw attention at the G7 to the importance of the Global Fund replenishment . what detail can the Minister give we about the financing that will be give to the Global Fund ? more importantly , there be a rumour that official development assistance be go to be cut from 0 . 5 % to 0 . 2 % , to cover an increase in defence spending . can the Minister confirm whether that be the case ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise the importance of funding for global health . of course , this be not just important for those directly impact ; it be important for we here in our country , because we know that disease do not respect border . I set out a few moment ago the fact that the Prime Minister be committed to that Global Fund replenishment , and rightly so . british Virgin Islands : Illicit Finance what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of step take by the British Virgin Islands to tackle illicit finance . the overseas territory , include the British Virgin Islands , work to uphold international standard on tax transparency and illicit finance and enforce UK sanction . the overseas territory agree to implement corporate register that be accessible at least to those with legitimate interest by June 2025 . we be aware of BVI ' s public consultation on its register and be work with it to improve its proposal . the BVI will soon close the consultation on its proposal to grant only limited access to a register of beneficial ownership . that proposal mean that it will be virtually impossible for even a select few to trace those use the BVI as a place to secretly stash their cash , and this come some five year after the first deadline to set up a register be miss . I know that the Secretary of State agree that sunlight be the good disinfectant when it come to combat illicit finance , so what step be he take to ensure that the BVI establish a genuine and fully transparent register of beneficial ownership ? the BVI commit at the Joint Ministerial Council to improve access to its corporate register by June . I meet BVI representative just after that time at the end of last year , and my hon . friend the Minister of State will meet the BVI again in the come week . it be important that that public consultation on the propose register will close this Friday , and we be work with the BVI to improve its proposal . the Foreign Secretary will be aware that under the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 , the british Virgin Islands be oblige to introduce open register of beneficial ownership by the end of 2020 , or be subject to an order in Council . it have not do so , it be in contempt of Parliament , so when will the Foreign Secretary issue the Order in Council ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman that if the agree requirement be not meet we will carefully consider what further step to take . our expectation remain clear : those register will ultimately be public , and my hon . friend the Minister of State will meet the BVI to make clear our expectation . illegal israeli Settler Violence what assessment he have make of the potential merit of sanction violent illegal israeli settler . what assessment he have make of the potential merit of sanction violent illegal israeli settler . Settler violence be unacceptable . on 15 October the UK sanction three outpost and four entity link to violence in the west bank under the global human right regime . those measure will help bring accountability to those who have support and perpetrate such heinous abuse of human right . the Government do not comment on future sanction measure , as to do so would reduce their impact . comment make yesterday by the UN Secretary - General about increase violence in the west bank by israeli settler have shock my bath constituent and people across the country , and member across the House be frustrate by the lack of action . will the Government sanction those who advocate for that violence , especially Minister Smotrich and former Minister Ben - Gvir ? we have condemn the unacceptable language that have be use by israeli Minister Bezalel Smotrich and former Minister Mr Ben - Gvir . the Foreign Secretary , and all Ministers , have be clear with their israeli counterpart that the israeli Government must clamp down on settler violence , as the Foreign Secretary say early , and end the settlement expansion . as I say in my original answer , we will not comment on future sanction , as to do so could reduce their impact . many people in my constituency be passionate about resolve the situation between Israel and Palestine , and there be concern that violence in the west bank have increase and illegal settlement have continue to expand . do the Minister agree that if he also want to see a reduction in settler violence , we should be consider sanction those settlement ? I be seriously concern by the expansion of Israel ' s operation in the west bank , and 40 , 000 Palestinians have reportedly be displace . Palestinians must be allow home , civilian must be protect , and the destruction of civilian infrastructure minimise . stability be essential at this crucial time . we recognise Israel ' s security concern , but it must show restraint and ensure that its operation be commensurate with the threat pose . I refer to my previous answer on sanction . Israel have send tank to the west bank for the first time in 20 year , and some 40 , 000 Palestinians be be displace from refugee camp there . the very least that should be do to stop these contravention of international law be to impose a ban on israeli good come from illegal israeli settlement , so I ask the Minister : be it now the time to do that ? we call for trade to be do in the proper way . there be clear provision around where israeli good be produce . we do not recognise illegal settlement . Produce must be properly label and there be clear advice to business on that basis . the Government and their partner be do important work to support the continuation of the fragile ceasefire in Gaza , but in the west bank , as well as increase settler attack we have see israeli force attack a palestinian bookshop in east Jerusalem , UNRWA school close , tank move into refugee camp and the forced displacement of some 40 , 000 Palestinians . what action be the Government take to prevent the Gaza - isation of the west bank ? as I say in my previous answer , we be follow event in the west bank closely . stability in the west bank be crucial to ensure that the fragile ceasefire in Gaza can last . all side should work to ensure a lowering of tension in the west bank at this time . it be in no one ' s interest for further conflict and instability to spread in the west bank . I call the Father of the House . a week ago , I be in a palestinian village with colleague , include the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) . we go to a school that have be demolish by illegal settler . immediately , two punk turn up with sub - machine gun , intimidate we — that be happen all over the place . we go to Hebron . it be completely close down . this be appalling . the whole House should unite against the extremist jewish settler and the illegal settlement , because it be not in the interest of moderate israeli opinion . it be directly contrary to peace and we must fight this . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] the Father of the House , my constituency neighbour , can hear the strong support for his remark from member on the Government Benches . as the Father of the House just reference , I be in Israel , on the west bank , last week , and two thing become instantly clear . there be widespread revulsion at the sicken desecration of the body of the israeli hostage by Hamas , and there be widespread fear among Palestinians , particularly those in rural area whom we meet , who have first - hand experience of their child have stone throw at they by settler , their neighbour have their car torch and their own windscreen be smash every night . will the Minister reassure we that those extremist settler will be deal with really thoroughly in our foreign policy ? my hon . friend set out some of the horrific scene that have come out of Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories in recent week . I restate our opposition to a further expansion of extremist settler violence and illegal settlement . UK - Mauritius Treaty what assessment he have make of the potential security implication of the propose UK - Mauritius treaty on the sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory . what his plan timetable be for the transfer of sovereignty of the Chagos island to Mauritius . we remain committed to conclude a deal that protect the base on Diego Garcia . without a deal , the base can not operate in practical term as it should in its important role protect the security of this country , the United States and our ally . we be currently discuss the agreement with the US and Mauritius . we will not put a deadline on its finalisation , and will come to the House in due course . the Labour party ' s determination to give away vital strategic territory in the Chagos island , seemingly to satisfy one of the Prime Minister ' s lawyer friend over our american ally , be baffle to my colleague on the Conservative Benches . do the Minister agree that it be far more important to maintain our special relationship with the US and the new Trump Administration than to pay billion of pound in the face of the self - inflict , worsen domestic economic situation , in order to give the chinese Government access to that vital region ? there be so many thing in the hon . Gentleman ' s question that I disagree with that I do not know quite where to start . we be not give away the base on Diego Garcia — the deal secure that base . if there be not a problem with its operation and its future , why do his government start negotiation on it ? the Minister will be aware that the Chinese have a smart city situate in Mauritius , so what safeguard be in the deal to prevent chinese installation on Diego Garcia that could compromise our western naval security ? we be absolutely clear that we will retain full control over Diego Garcia , and will have robust provision to keep adversary out . there will be unrestricted access to and use of the base for the UK and the US , a buffer zone around Diego Garcia , a comprehensive mechanism to ensure that no activity in the outer island threaten base operation and a ban on the presence of any foreign security force . I absolutely assure the hon . Gentleman that the provision be in place to defend the security of that critical base . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the Foreign Secretary have proudly say that his Chagos surrender plan be a good deal . he tell the Foreign Affairs Committee back in November that it be " a very good deal " , and that he be " confident that the Mauritians be still sure about that " . three week ago , the Prime Minister of Mauritius tell his National Assembly that since his election , he have conclude the deal " be so bad that we say , no way ! " and that he have extract more concession from the UK on the length of the lease , the extension on sovereignty and the cost . can the Minister confirm that change have be make since the announcement of the deal on 3 October last year , and do he disagree with the account give by the Prime Minister of Mauritius ? the fundamental of the deal remain the same , and the overall quantum remain unchanged . woman and girl : Afghanistan what step his Department be take to support woman and girl ' right in Afghanistan . we condemn the Taliban ' s appal treatment of woman and girl in Afghanistan . the Taliban must reverse their barbaric decree , and we keep work hard with international partner to maintain collective pressure . the cruelty and inhumanity of the Taliban should appal we all , and no doubt we all condemn the ban on medical training . the UK have provide significant aid to Afghanistan to support the health of woman and baby , but with the Taliban now undermine woman ' s health as well as their right , what will happen to these aid programme and fund ? what action can we take to put pressure on the Taliban to reverse their decision ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that the Taliban have be undermine so much of woman ' s and girl ' live in Afghanistan . we be determined to support girl in Afghanistan , include when it come to education . I have directly discuss that with the Aga Khan Foundation to ensure that support be get directly to girl , but we also need to push hard politically . I be very pleased to announce that the UK be politically support the initiative to refer Afghanistan to the International Court of Justice for violation of the convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman . I call the shadow Minister . the treatment of woman and girl by the Taliban be disgusting , and pressure must be exert in response . the Minister will know that there be concern about the protection of right for woman and girl and other minority in Syria too , give the ideology of Hayat Tahrir al - Sham . minister have issue a statement on the future of the UK sanction on Syria . can the Minister give detail of the measure that need to be put in place in Syria to protect those right , and say whether such issue will be tie to future decision on sanction ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her question , and for her passion for the protection of woman and girl . protect they , and , indeed , religious and ethnic minority , have be at the core of the UK ' s engagement with the syrian authority . it be at the core of the intervention I make at the conference on Syria that I attend in Paris just a few day ago , and it be also very important in relation to the change to sanction that my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary set out . Europe : Diplomatic Co - operation what step he be take to increase diplomatic co - operation with his european counterpart . the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary , the Minister for the Cabinet Office and I be engage extensively with european counterpart , include through the Prime Minister ' s attendance of a European Council meeting for the first time since Brexit . we be work closely with european ally , and be call for increase defence spending and support for Ukraine . this deep engagement have already deliver result on growth and security , include a landmark defence and migration agreement with Germany . the Thames valley be one of the most important economic zone in this country . at a recent meeting that I hold with the business leader of the Thames Valley chamber of commerce , the overwhelming message be that Brexit have be a disaster for business , and that Boris Johnson and the Tories do they dirty . will the Minister commit to correct that wrong , and start negotiation to join a European Union customs union ? we have be very clear that we do not seek to rejoin the custom union , but our co - operation be already deliver result , particularly in relation to growth and business . we recently secure a £ 250 million Czech investment in Rolls - Royce small modular nuclear reactor , and a furth £ 600 million investment by polish firm InPost in its UK operation , and as I have say , we have also sign deal on migration with Serbia , Kosovo , Slovenia and Slovakia . Ceasefire talk between Russia and Ukraine be under way , whatever our opinion of they , but the eager eye of Putin may now look to other former soviet country , such as the Baltic state . I be in Estonia a couple of week ago , and the distance between the russian border and the Russian - hold Kaliningrad territory be just 300 mile . for context , that be roughly what I travel every week to Plymouth from London . what step be the Government take to deter the Russians from look at possible future military action there ? as I have say , security be at the heart of our engagement with european counterpart , and the UK ' s commitment to the security of the baltic state be iron - clothe . we be help to uphold that region ' s security through our NATO forward land force deployment in Estonia — the Prime Minister meet joint expeditionary force leader in Tallinn in December to discuss close co - operation , in response to both conventional threat from russian aggression and hybrid threat — and , of course , our work together on Ukraine . I have visit that border and meet our enhance forward presence troop there ; they be do an excellent job , and it be crucial that we stand with our baltic neighbour and all of Europe when it come to our collective security . I call the shadow Minister . the UK can be proud of the leadership it have show in support Ukraine and rally our international partner around this cause . what work be the Minister lead , with european ally , on unfreezing sanctioned asset , so that they can be use to equip Ukraine , and what be his timeframe for release critical sanctioned fund , so that they can be use to strengthen Europe ' s defence of our value , security and defence ? as the right hon . Lady know , we have already do important work with european partner to secure the extraordinary revenue acceleration loan , which will make a tangible difference to Ukraine . we continue to work with european partner on sanction , and of course , we be consider all lawful option go forward . we have have important discussion in the Weimar group and through the G7 , and will continue to look , with european counterpart , at all option for support Ukraine . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be shocking yesterday to see the United States vote with the despot of North Korea , Belarus and Russia against a UN resolution propose by the UK and other european democracy . liberal Democrats want to see the UK lead in Europe against Putin ' s war on Ukraine , so we be pleased to hear the Foreign Secretary say yesterday that he be take forward our liberal Democrat proposal that the £ 40 billion of frozen russian asset hold in european central bank be seize and give to Ukraine . can the Minister confirm that the Foreign Secretary will push the US Administration to join in that initiative when he visit Washington later this week ? I be genuinely glad of the continued cross - party co - operation on Ukraine , which we see during the Foreign Secretary ' s statement yesterday . of course , that include get important resource . I be not quite sure that the proposal be a liberal Democrat proposal , but I think there be a united front across this House on get Ukraine the resource that it need . we will continue to work with european counterpart in support of Ukraine at the United Nations , across Europe and through NATO , use all the mean that we can to support Ukraine militarily , economically and diplomatically . Georgia : Civil Liberties what step he be take to support civil liberty in Georgia . who want it ? rise — Minister , well do . apology , Mr Speaker . I be answer a lot of question today . I have significant concern about the georgian authority ' violent crackdown on peaceful demonstrator and journalist , which be completely unacceptable . in response , we have suspend programme support to the Georgian Government , restrict defence co - operation , and limited engagement with georgian Dream . we have impose visa ban and sanction on some of those responsible for the violence , and we continue to work with international partner to support a free and open civil society and medium in Georgia . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . last month at the Council of Europe , I meet several georgian opposition member , who show I graphic evidence of the brutal physical abuse mete out by the georgian regime before , during and since the recent parliamentary election . Bidzina Ivanishvili , the Putin - back oligarch and de facto ruler of Georgia , continue to suppress peaceful protest , use an identical modus operandi to that use in Russia . violence and intimidation be distort the political process . the United States have impose sanction on Ivanishvili , but much of his wealth be base in the UK or in british overseas territory . will the Minister commit to the UK join our ally and freeze the asset of such a despicable tyrant ? I thank my hon . friend and his fellow member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe delegation for the important work that they be do , include on the issue of Georgia . it be hugely important that we stand together with fellow Europeans in the Council of Europe on these matter . in co - ordination with the US , the United Kingdom have impose sanction on the Minister and deputy Minister of Internal Affairs and three police chief responsible for violent attack against journalist and peaceful protester in Georgia . my hon . friend will understand that while we continue to closely monitor the evolve situation in Georgia , we do not comment on potential sanction designation , as to do so would lessen their impact . the European Parliament recently recognise Salome Zourabichvili as the rightful President of Georgia . protester who be on the street of Tbilisi day in , day out , agree with that view . she have meet the President of France , Emmanuel Macron , and she attend the recent inauguration of the US President . will the Minister commit to meeting with Madame Zourabichvili the next time she visit the UK ? we continue to engage with a range of figure in Georgia . we continue to engage with all those who seek a Euro - atlantic path for Georgia , which be define in its constitution and be the wish of its people . we will continue to work closely with european counterpart on the issue . Historic Slavery : reparation whether he have have recent discussion with his international counterpart on the payment of reparation to people impact by historic slavery . the slave trade be abhorrent . we recognise its horrific impact and the ongoing strength of feeling , but there have be no such discussion . as the Foreign Secretary make clear to the Foreign Affairs Committee after the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting , " there be no discussion about reparation and money . the Prime Minister and I be absolutely clear that we will not be make cash transfer and payment to the Caribbean " . we be focus on work with our caribbean partner to tackle the most pressure challenge of today and the future , include security , growth and climate change . last week see the 38th ordinary session of the African Union Assembly of Heads of State and Government , the topic of which be " Justice for Africans and people of african descent through reparation " . caribbean Heads of State be also present , and we know that the Caribbean Community , or CARICOM , have long engage in discussion on reparative justice . whether or not we participate in these discussion , they will continue to happen . do the Minister accept that the world and its power structure be change ? in our turbulent post - brexit reality , we need ally and friend , but we will not even say that we be sorry . we would be foolish to think that we be not deeply resent for that . be it not well for the UK to engage in these discussion and ensure that we play a constructive role in address the endure legacy of slavery and colonialism ? we recognise that this be an issue of endure concern to many . we listen to view from our caribbean partner on the full range of bilateral issue , but our policy on reparation be clear : we do not pay they . we be determined to work together for the future . a quick question : to what extent do the Government support CARICOM ' s 10 - point plan for reparatory justice ? as I just state , our policy on reparation be clear : we do not pay they . conflict in Sudan what step he be take with his international counterpart to help de - escalate the conflict in Sudan . end the conflict in Sudan be a personal priority for I . I recently visit the Adr é border with the chadian Foreign Minister to increase international attention on Sudan , and to meet sudanese civilian who be bear the brunt of this crisis . I be happy to announce that I will convene Foreign Ministers in London in April , around the second anniversary of the outbreak of the civil war in Sudan , to foster international consensus on a path to end the conflict . I thank the Foreign Secretary for all that he be do . as in so many conflict , the discourse about this brutal sudanese war be be fuel by external actor with economic and mineral interest in Sudan , and with interest in wide geopolitical agitation , such as Russia ; Egypt , with its support for the Sudanese Armed Forces ; and the UAE , with its support for the Rapid Support Forces . there be also the wide user of mercenary . what further step can the Foreign Secretary take to use our leverage , not least our trading leverage , to ensure that actor be not fuel this horrendous war and humanitarian crisis ? my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that I raise these issue in my contribution at the G20 . I have a lengthy discussion with Amina Mohammed of the United Nations , with the Foreign Minister of Angola , and with President Ramaphosa on the situation in Sudan . I be look forward to convene this conference in London , and work with the French and the African Union . we continue to emphasise , with all international partner , the importance of refrain from action that prolong the conflict . the Foreign Secretary indicate that he would engage in further discussion , along with the African Union . give that there be about 9 million displace people in one of the most significant , if not the most significant , humanitarian catastrophe that the world face today , will he impress on the African Union and partner the need for urgent action to try to resolve this situation ? the hon . Gentleman be right to ask that question . I go to the Adr é crossing not just to spend time with the overwhelming number of woman and child who be flee the conflict , but to announce £ 20 million in additional support for refugee and , in particular , for access to reproductive and sexual health service on that border . the situation be grim ; it be horrific , and have be give too little attention , and I intend to ensure that we do all we can to bring it to an end . Gaza : humanitarian Situation what step he be take to help tackle the humanitarian situation in Gaza . on 28 January we announce a furth £ 17 million for healthcare , food and shelter , and to support vital infrastructure across the Occupied Palestinian Territories . this be an investment in the ceasefire , which must hold . it be utterly heartbreaking to see the desecration of hostage ' body , and to see man , woman and child return to Gaza to try to rebuild their life among the rubble . I welcome the Government ' s effort on humanitarian aid during this fragile ceasefire , which be become more fragile as tank roll into the west bank . what more can we do to ensure that the ceasefire be implement in full , and to protect human right and community in the west bank ? I know that many member on both side of the House will share my hon . friend ' s revulsion and concern at those scene . we be commit to work with Israel , the Palestinian Authority , the United States and regional partner to build confidence in the ceasefire and support condition for a permanent and sustainable peace , include palestinian reconstruction . to support immediate need , £ 2 million of the recently announce funding have be commit to critical water and energy infrastructure project . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I visit Israel recently as part of a delegation from this place , and meet politician from across the political spectrum . some support the israeli Government ' s current approach , while other do not , but what unite they be their criticism of the UK Government ' s continued support for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . will the government please reconsider that support ? I too have have such discussion , both in Tel Aviv and elsewhere . I recognise that there be particular concern about the event that lead to the production of the Colonna report . as be mention early , there be disturb allegation about the involvement of UNRWA staff , and there be also concern about report that Emily Damari may have be place within an UNRWA camp . we have take this up with UNRWA , and have support its reform agenda . it have deliver change , and it be the only organisation that can deliver the humanitarian support that be so desperately need by million of Palestinians . Sudan what step he be take to help tackle the humanitarian situation in Sudan . what step his Department be take to support people affect by the humanitarian situation in Sudan . what step his Department be take to help tackle food insecurity in Sudan . we remain desperately concerned about the humanitarian situation in Sudan . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have set out the measure take by the UK to seek to ameliorate that appal disaster , include a doubling of aid to Sudan . in recent day , sudanese armed force have advance into El - Obeid , the capital of North Kordofan state , end a two - year siege by the Rapid Support Forces . this have cause serious food shortage in North Kordofan , which be deem to be suffer famine condition under the integrate food security phase classification . what be the Government do to ensure that aid be fast - track into the city ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue , because the situation she have describe be intolerable . I be grateful to the international counterpart who attend a discussion on these subject , in which we take part , at the Munich security conference . my hon . Friend refer to the famine designation . we regret the fact that the sudanese armed force have say that they will not co - operate with that assessment , but we have see both the RSF and the SAF restrict aid and use it as a weapon of war , and that must end . the Genocide80Twenty campaign group at Hampton school in my constituency recently meet member of the Darfur diaspora who have flee the atrocity in Sudan , and they would like to know what the UK Government be do to help those target simply for who they be . with a staggering 16 million child desperately need food , shelter , healthcare and education , could I ask the Minister for assurance that we will not see any cut to UK aid to the region , and what assessment have she have make of the impact of the Trump Administration ' s cut to US aid ? the hon . member be right to raise the disturbing account of atrocity that we have hear . she will be pleased to know that the UK lead effort to renew the UN Human Rights Council fact - find mission mandate last October , and I be very pleased to see additional african country come on board with that . we have double our aid to Sudan , so that commitment be not in doubt . I welcome the Government push a ceasefire in Sudan and double aid . Sudan ' s civil war , now in its third year , have trigger one of the bad humanitarian crisis of the decade , with 5 . 1 million internally displace people and 1 . 3 million refugee since April 2023 , and famine be now loom . give this , will the Minister outline what urgent step the Government be take with their international counterpart to help de - escalate the conflict in Sudan ? end the conflict in Sudan , and the appalling consequence of it , be a UK priority . both the Foreign Secretary and I have visit the region , include Chad and South Sudan . we have increase aid , and we have be determine to increase international attention . that include the April conference to which the Foreign Secretary refer , but I also convene Development Ministers from a number of country a few day ago , with the emergency relief co - ordinator , to try to pile on the pressure . the last time the Minister be in the House talk about Sudan , she tell we it be important to have trust in the international system . give that the RSF be accuse of ethnic cleansing and genocide , be so far act with complete impunity and have just pledge to form a rival Government , what be the UK Government do to garner trust in the international system and to hold the rsf to account ? I regret that we see both party to the conflict behave in a manner that be have a truly catastrophic impact on civilian — we see famine and appalling level of conflict - relate sexual violence — and the international community must step up . that be why the Foreign Secretary be seek to convene leader on this in April , why I have pull together Development Ministers on this and why we have repeatedly raise these issue at the UN . Sri Lanka if he will take diplomatic step to help ensure accountability for alleged war crime in Sri Lanka . the UK Government be commit to human right in Sri Lanka and be lead international effort to promote accountability and human right , include at the UN Human Rights Council . in a visit to Sri Lanka last month , I raise these issue with Ministers in the new Government in Colombo . it be over 15 year since the end of the bloody civil war in Sri Lanka , but those responsible for the many war crime commit during that conflict , include the targeting of civilian and sexual violence , have still not be hold accountable . in opposition , the Foreign Secretary call on the Government to follow the example of our ally , include the US and Canada , in impose sanction against individual suspect of commit these appalling act . now he be in government , will he commit to finally do so ? in October 2024 , the UK and our core group partner get a resolution on Sri Lanka in the UN Human Rights Council , outline just what the hon . Member say . it renew the mandate of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to report regularly on Sri Lanka , and to protect and preserve evidence to use in future accountability process . we consider a range of justice and accountability option , include sanction , and keep evidence for any potential designation under close review . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as I set out in the House yesterday , secure a last peace that safeguard Ukraine ' s sovereignty for the long term be essential . to achieve this , Europe and the United States must provide the support Ukraine need to stay strong , and Ukraine must be at the heart of any talk . the UK be play a lead role on assistance to Ukraine , on pressure on Russia and on keep our ally unite . will the Government bring forward emergency legislation to seize frozen russian asset and ensure they be repurpose to support Ukraine in the wake of Trump ' s talk with Putin ? if not , can the Foreign Secretary explain why ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . it be not something on which any Government can act alone ; we must act with european ally . it be a topic of conversation at the G7 and at the Weimar group . of course , Europe have to act quickly , and I believe we should move from freeze asset to seize asset . the Gaza ceasefire deal remain fragile and , as we enter the final week of its first phase , it be crucial that both the israeli and palestinian government continue to uphold the agreement and reunite family with dignity . will the Minister assure I that this Government will continue to support the ceasefire deal into its remain stage and work with international partner such as Jordan and Egypt to secure a last peace ? I can confirm that we will continue to support the ceasefire deal through all three of its phase , which we hope to see conclude in full . I be work with international partner , as be other Ministers ; I see the jordanian and egyptian ambassador on this question just last week . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . this House stand united with the people of Ukraine . in the light of Putin ' s brutality towards the people of Ukraine , what discussion will the Foreign Secretary be have with ally , include his american counterpart , on the international effort to prosecute Russia for the invasion of Ukraine and the sheer barbarism it have inflict on the people of Ukraine ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for raise the issue of justice and accountability . as she know , this work be begin under the previous Government , when we lead the world in ensure there be sufficient fund in Ukraine . the Foreign Office support lawyer work in Ukraine to gather evidence ; I will never forget the scene that I see in Bucha and the victim I stand with . the UK will not let up on justice . when it come to accountability , Putin should pay — not the british and european people . Russia , Iran and China all pose threat to Britain , and they go out of their way to do we harm . can the Foreign Secretary explain why the Government have yet to implement the foreign influence registration scheme , which the previous Government legislate for , and can he confirm when it will come in and whether China will be on the enhance tier ? again , the right hon . Lady raise an important issue . we inherit a process that be not quite work ; she know of the issue . we will come forward shortly with our plan for the foreign influence registration scheme . the International Court of Justice deliver its advisory opinion last July , in which it make crystal clear that the illegal settlement at that time be just that — unlawful . yet we have see threat to displace Gazans and tank on the west bank . when will the Government deliver their response to the advisory opinion ? will it be before the conference in Switzerland in a few week ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question and for her long commitment to these issue . as I make clear in the Westminster Hall debate on 12 February , the UK respect the independence of the ICJ , and we be consider the court ' s advisory opinion with the rigour and seriousness it deserve . we remain clear that Israel should bring an end to its presence in the occupied Palestinian Territories as rapidly as possible , while make every effort to create the condition for negotiation towards a two - state solution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the whole House will be shock to learn the worrying news that the mother of british - egyptian political prisoner Alaa Abd el - Fattah , Laila Soueif , be admit to St Thomas ' hospital last night . she be 68 year old and have be on hunger strike now for 149 day . will the Foreign Secretary update we on whether the Prime Minister have speak to the egyptian President to secure the release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah and allow Laila to break her strike ? the whole House be engage in this case , and we be all hope for Laila ' s health . the Prime Minister recently meet Laila and the rest of her family — a meeting I be pleased to join — and have undertake to make every effort to ensure Alaa ' s release . we will continue to do so . on a recent visit to Camp Viking , I witness the vital role that this hub for UK commando force in the high north play in our strategic defence effort . what engagement have the Minister have with our norwegian counterpart to counter russian aggression and strengthen our collective security in the region ? I be delighted that my hon . friend have visit those incredible commando during their training . I , too , have visit our Royal Marines and Army commando in the high north in Norway and witness the vital role that they play in our strategic defence effort . the UK and Norway work closely together as NATO and joint expeditionary force ally . our Prime Minister sign a strategic partnership agreement in December , and , last week , the Defence Secretary visit Norway to launch a new agreement on deep defence co - operation . I and the Foreign Secretary have also visit our counterpart , and I can tell my hon . friend that security and defence co - operation be absolutely at the heart of our effort and discussion with our norwegian friend . President Trump and Elon Musk slash US aid be a great day for Russia and China . will the Foreign Secretary avoid give they another great day by commit to protect the UK ' s development budget , even as we raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp ? as he know , prevent war be cheap than fight they . I be proud of the work that the UK have do over many decade in relation to development : the work that I have see in Ukraine , in Gaza and in Sudan . all of that work will , of course , continue . the security of Europe be absolutely paramount . what new step be the Secretary of State take to deter Russia from far invade european border give that we be now in a new situation of ongoing negotiation ? I be very pleased yesterday to announce one of this country ' s big ever sanction package , which will bear down far on Russia ' s shadow fleet . I remind my hon . friend that interest rate be run at 21 % in Russia and inflation be run at 9 % . we be do a lot to take off the table money that Putin use to fund his war machine . in January , a Minister in the Foreign Office say that they would challenge the Northern Ireland Executive to be more robust in their reporting of international affair and meeting . at the start of this month , the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister meet again with the chinese consul , but still no detail of that meeting or previous meeting have be report or share . have that challenge be make , and what be the response ? we regularly engage with Northern Ireland on all matter of foreign policy . however , this chinese consular matter be not something that Ministers can discuss at the Dispatch Box . I warmly welcome the massive sanction package announce yesterday by the Government , but do the Foreign Secretary agree that China should be take a significantly more proactive role in prevent its company from supply Russia ' s military ? I thank my hon . friend for his praise and support for the action that the Foreign Secretary have just mention . this be our large ever sanction package since the start of Russia ' s illegal and barbarous invasion . we and our G7 ally be absolutely clear on the principle that Russia must pay for the damage that it be cause to Ukraine , and we of course look at third country route by which support be be give to Russia ' s illegal action in Ukraine . as part of the package announce yesterday we be take a number of step in that regard , include with company in China . last week , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , leave open the possibility that the fcdo might revisit the issue of explicit carbon monoxide warning on fcdo travel advisory page — a change that we contend would have a cascade effect on the UK travel industry , drive up the use of carbon monoxide alarm and save life of british traveller overseas . may I encourage the Front - Bench team to pick up this issue in the name of my constituent , Hudson Foley , to ensure that the life of british traveller overseas be keep safe ? I can confirm that I will be add information to our dedicated page for independent traveller to highlight the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning globally . I shall be write to Cathy Foley , who I be move to meet , and to the hon . member . Gaza ' s healthcare system have be devastate , and many civilian be in desperate need of treatment and specialist care , which be not available in Gaza itself . will the Minister ensure that the Government continue to raise with Israel the importance of allow safe passage out of Gaza for those child in need of urgent medical treatment ? will they consider additional evacuation route for critically unwell child ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that important question . we have be work closely with Egypt , which have seek to support many of those require medical assistance . across Government we continue to look carefully at this issue , but Gazans need healthcare support in Gaza , and the UK Government have be support that . as I be sure those on the Treasury Bench know , soft power and diplomacy be most effective when they be back up by hard power . when will the Government commit to spend 3 % of gdp on defence , to make sure that we have a real voice at the international table to encourage european country to increase their defence spending ? why do the right hon . Gentleman not decide to do that ? the Conservatives leave it to this Government to get back to 2 . 5 % , which we last have under a Labour Government . the right hon . Gentleman should have do it , and we be go to do it . I look forward to see relation between the UK and Iraq blossom in the year to come under this Labour Government . will the Minister share the recent conversation that he have have with iraqi counterpart on reduce barrier to trade , such as diverge trade regime ? I be very pleased to meet the iraqi Foreign Minister Dr Fuad Hussein during the official visit of Prime Minister Al Sudani to the UK from 14 to 16 January . during that visit our two Prime Ministers sign the landmark partnership and co - operation agreement , a wide - range treaty on trade and strategic co - operation , and announce a trade package worth up to £ 12 . 3 billion . defence and Security before the Prime Minister ' s statement , let I point out that the Government ' s own ministerial code say that the text of statement should be provide in advance to the Opposition and the Speaker . it do not provide for the text to be redact . I be particularly concern by report that some of the redacted information be provide to the medium in advance . if correct , that be very discourteous to this House , and I take it very seriously . it could well have be leak , in which case I hope that there will be an inquiry into what have happen . I ask the Prime Minister to look into what have happen and to report back to I and to the House as soon as possible . let I begin by give my word to this House that the statement be not give to the medium . I will absolutely have an inquiry into that . I speak to you , Mr Speaker , this morning . I would not be discourteous to you , the Leader of the Opposition or the House in that way . I give you that assurance from this Dispatch Box . I apologise to the Leader of the Opposition , and I will have that inquiry . three year since Russia launch its vile assault on Ukraine , I would like to address the international situation and the implication for Britain ' s national security . in my first week as Prime Minister , I travel to the NATO summit in Washington with a simple message : NATO and our ally could trust that this Government would fulfil Britain ' s and , indeed , the Labour party ' s , historic role of put our collective security first . I speak of my great pride in lead the party that be a found member of NATO , the inheritor of the legacy of Clement Attlee and Ernest Bevin , who not only stand behind Winston Churchill in wartime , but win the peace by establish the great post - war order here and abroad . it be a proud legacy , but in a world like ours it be also a heavy one , because the historical load that we must carry to fulfil our duty be not as light as it once be . we must bend our back across this House , because these time demand a united Britain and we must deploy all our resource to achieve security . Mr Speaker , as a young man , I vividly remember the Berlin Wall come down . it feel as if we be cast off the shackle of history ; a continent unite by freedom and democracy . if you have tell I then that in my lifetime we would see russian tank roll into european city again , I would not have believe you . yet here we be in a world where everything have change , because three year ago that be exactly what happen . Britain can be proud of our response . british family open their door to flee Ukrainians , with the yellow and light blue flutter on town hall and church the length and breadth of the country . the Conservatives in government be robust in our response . I support that in opposition and I applaud they for it now . we have build on that , bring our support for Ukraine to a record level this year . we should not pretend that any of this have be easy . work people have already feel the cost of russian action through rise price and bill . none the less , one of the great lesson of our history be that instability in Europe will always wash up on our shore and that tyrant like Putin only respond to strength . Russia be a menace in our water , in our airspace and on our street . it have launch cyber - attack on our NHS and — only seven year ago — a chemical weapon attack on the street of Salisbury . we must stand by Ukraine , because if we do not achieve a last peace the economic instability and the threat to our security will only grow . and so , as the nature of that conflict change , as it have in recent week , it bring our response into sharp focus ; a new era that we must meet — as we have so often in the past — together and with strength . the fundamental of british strategy be unchanged . I know that the current moment be volatile , but there be still no good reason why they can not endure , so let I now spell out to the House exactly how we will renew they for these time . first , NATO be the bedrock of our security and will remain so . it have bring peace for 75 year . it be as important today as the day on which it be found . Putin think he would weaken NATO ; he have achieve the exact opposite . it remain the organisation that receive the vast bulk of our defence effort in every domain , and that must continue . secondly , we must reject any false choice between our ally — between one side of the Atlantic and the other . that be against our history , country and party , because it be against our fundamental national interest . the US be our most important bilateral alliance . it straddle everything from nuclear technology to NATO , five eye , AUKUS and beyond . it have survive countless external challenge in the past . we have fight war together . we be the close partner in trade , growth and security . so this week , when I meet President Trump , I will be clear . I want this relationship to go from strength to strength . but strength in this world also depend on a new alliance with Europe . as I say in Paris last week , our commitment to european defence and security be unwavering , but now be the time to deepen it . we will find new way to work together on our collective interest and threat , protect our border , bring our company together and seek out new opportunity for growth . thirdly , we seek peace not conflict , and we believe in the power of diplomacy to deliver that end . that of course be most press in Ukraine . nobody in this House or this country want the bloodshed to continue — nobody . I have see the devastation in Ukraine at first hand . what you see in place such as Bucha never leave you . but for peace to endure in Ukraine and beyond , we need deterrence . I know that this House will endorse the principle of win peace through strength , so we will continue to stand behind the people of Ukraine . we must ensure that they negotiate their future , and we will continue to put they in the strong position for a last peace . fourthly , we must change our national security posture , because a generational challenge require a generational response . that will demand some extremely difficult and painful choice , and through those choice , as hard as they be , we must also seek unity — a whole - society effort that will reach into the life , the industry and the home of the british people . I start this statement by recall the era of Attlee and Bevin , and this year we will mark many anniversary of that great generation . we must find courage in our history and courage in who we be as a nation , because courage be what our own era now demand of we . so , start today , this Government will begin the big sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . we will deliver our commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , but we will bring it forward so that we reach that level in 2027 and we will maintain that for the rest of this Parliament . let I spell that out . that mean spend £ 13 . 4 billion more on defence every year from 2027 . however , we also face enemy that be sophisticated in cyber - attack , sabotage and even assassination , so our intelligence and security service be an increasingly vital part of protect both we and our ally . on top of the funding of 2 . 5 % that I have just announce , we will recognise the incredible contribution of our intelligence and security service to the defence of our nation , which mean that , take together , we will be spend 2 . 6 % on our defence from 2027 . we must go far still . I have long argue that in the face of ongoing and generational challenge , all european ally must step up and do more for our own defence . subject to economic and fiscal condition , and align with our strategic and operational need , we will also set a clear ambition for defence spending to rise to 3 % of gdp in the next Parliament . I want to be very clear : the nature of warfare have change significantly . that be clear from the battlefield in Ukraine , so we must modernise and reform our capability as we invest . I equally want to be very clear that , like any other investment we make , we must seek value for money . that be why we be put in place a new defence reform and efficiency plan , jointly lead by my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the Defence Secretary . this investment mean that the UK will strengthen its position as a leader in NATO and in the collective defence of our continent , and we should welcome that role . it be good for our national security . it be also good for this Government ' s define mission to restore growth to our economy , and we should be optimistic about what it can deliver in those term . but , in the short term , it can only be fund through hard choice . in this case , that mean we will cut our spending on development assistance , move from 0 . 5 % of GNI today to 0 . 3 % in 2027 , fully fund our increase investment in defence . I want to be clear to the House that this be not an announcement that I be happy to make . I be proud of our pioneering record on overseas development , and we will continue to play a key humanitarian role in Sudan , Ukraine and Gaza , tackle climate change and support multinational effort on global health and challenge like vaccination . in recent year , the development budget be redirect towards asylum backlog , pay for hotel , so as we be clear that backlog at a record pace , there be efficiency that will reduce the need to cut spending on our overseas programme . none the less , it remain a cut , and I will not pretend otherwise . we will do everything we can to return to a world where that be not the case and to rebuild a capability on development . but at time like this , the defence and security of the british people must always come first . that be the no . 1 priority of this Government . but it be not just about spending ; our whole approach to national security must now change . we will have to ask british industry , british university , british business and the british people to play a big part , and to use this to renew the social contract of our nation — the right and responsibility that we owe one another . the first test of our defence policy be of course whether it keep our country safe , but the second should be whether it improve the condition of the british people . do it help provide the economic security that work people need ? because , ultimately , as Attlee and Bevin know , that be fundamental to national security as well . we will use this investment as an opportunity . we will translate defence spending into british growth , british job , british skill and british innovation . we will use the full power of the Procurement Act 2023 to rebuild our industrial base . as the strategic defence review be well under way , and across Government we be conduct a number of other review relevant to national security , it be obvious that those review must pull together . so before the NATO summit in June we will publish a single national security strategy and bring it to this House , because , as I say early , that be how we must meet the threat of our age : together and with strength — a new approach to defence , a revival of our industrial base , a deepening of our alliance ; the instrument of our national power bring together ; create opportunity , assure our ally and deliver security for our country . Mr Speaker , at moment like these in our past , Britain have stand up to be count . it have come together . and it have demonstrate strength . that be what the security of our country need now , and it be what this Government will deliver . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for the partial copy of his statement . now that I have hear the unredacted bit , I must welcome his response and his fulsome support for Ukraine . this weekend mark a grim milestone : it be now three year since Putin ' s invasion . the conservative party stand resolutely with the people of Ukraine . our heart be with those still catch up in this conflict as we remember the many innocent life lose . I will always be proud of the support that the last Conservative Government give in the run - up to Putin ' s invasion , and in the first crucial week and month of the war . we help prevent Kyiv from fall and we support Ukraine in regain territory initially lose to Russia . but it be also true that , overall , the west have not do enough to support Ukraine . as have be the case from the outset , it ultimately remain for Ukraine , as a proud and sovereign nation that have sacrifice so much to defend itself and the fundamental freedom that we all hold dear , to decide its future . we want this terrible war to end , but Ukraine need to be at the negotiating table . like President Zelenksy , we hope for a last , reliable peace , but the west must continue to be intensely robust in the face of Putin ' s aggression . the lesson of the past 20 year be clear : he only come back for more . the first duty of every Government be to protect their people . that mean a strong state that stand up for our national interest . our foreign policy should seek to support our national interest , which should always come first , so I be very pleased to hear the Prime Minister announce the increase to 2 . 5 % by 2027 . all of we on the conservative Benches welcome that ; we have all want to see more spending on defence . on the inclusion of the intelligence budget , will the Prime Minister confirm whether that mean new money for the intelligence service ? do it mean that there will be new money in the next financial year ? the Prime Minister will know that I write to he at the weekend with suggestion on what we can do to help increase defence spending , so I welcome his announcement on repurpose money from the overseas development budget — that be absolutely right — and I look forward to he take up my other suggestion of consider what we can do on welfare . he will know that we have a fully fund plan , and we urge he to take it up . have say that , can the Prime Minister say with confidence that 2 . 5 % by 2027 be sufficient ? we need to look at exactly how we fund this . he must not raise taxis far , as that would destroy our economy , and we need a strong economy to pay for strong defence . he can not borrow more ; we be already spend more on debt interest than on defence . we all know that he must make difficult decision on spending , and he have our support in do that . in his statement , the Prime Minister also tell we about his new value - for - money defence reform and efficiency plan . do he agree that the first thing that must be look at be the spending of billion of pound of taxpayer money to lease back the defence base on Diego Garcia , which we currently own ? why be he still pursue that deal ? early today , I make a speech about the realism that should drive our foreign policy . as part of that , he must scrap his disastrous plan to surrender the Chagos island and have british taxpayer pay for the privilege . the key difference between we Conservatives and the Labour party be that we know that we need a strong economy for defence . we need a serious plan to get the british economy grow again . we do not have that with the late Budget from the Chancellor . will the Prime Minister tell we whether there will be a fiscal event this spring , even though his Government be commit to only one fiscal event per year ? in summary , the Prime Minister make four point . I agree with he that NATO be a bedrock of our security , as I say this morning , and that the US be our most important bilateral relationship , but friend tell each other when they disagree . we agree on this issue ; we know that Ukraine must be support , and I share his concern about statement that have be make about President Zelensky . I agree with he about protect security in Europe , and I welcome his continued strengthening of alliance , but we must do that through NATO , build on the joint expeditionary force approach . of course , we agree that we need peace , with Ukraine agree . I do not necessarily agree with the Prime Minister ' s change of the national security posture , because we have different view on that — I be a conservative realist , not a progressive internationalist — but I want he to know that when he do the right thing , we will work with he in the national interest . may I first thank the Leader of the Opposition for her support in relation to today ' s announcement and on Ukraine ? that be important to the Government , to the House and , most of all , to the Ukrainians and President Zelensky . they want to see unity in our House — they value unity in our House — as they enter , after three year of conflict , a very difficult stage in the war with Russia and against russian aggression . I hope and believe that we can maintain that unity in relation to Ukraine , as we have do for three year . I be very proud that this House have do that , notwithstanding a change of Government , for three long year — we will continue to do so . the Leader of the opposition ask about the money for defence , security and intelligence . there be new money in the Budget in relation to that , but what I be do here be in addition to the 2 . 5 % , which be the increase defence spend as it have always be understand , to recognise that the nature of the threat to our county be different now , and that the security and intelligence service play a key part for we and our ally in our defence . that take the total to 2 . 6 % . the Leader of the Opposition ask whether we will tax or borrow to pay for the 2 . 5 % . the answer be no , which be why I have today set out precisely how we will pay for it , pound for pound . that have mean a difficult decision on overseas development — a very difficult decision , and not one that I want or be happy to take . but it be important that we explain where the money will come from in term and today . I be only ever go to come to the House with a plan that have a timeline and a percentage in it , and an answer to the question , " how will you pay for it ? " I would not have come to the House with a fanciful plan . the Leader of the Opposition say that they have a plan — [ interruption . ] she say , " of course we do . " I have my view on that , but the Institute for Government say that the Conservatives ' pledge of 2 . 5 % by 2030 do " not add up " and be " not a serious plan . " the Institute for Fiscal Studies call it " misleading and opaque " . I be not give my view ; I be give the view of other body on the plan that the Conservatives put forward . they say that they would fund it by cut the civil service , and then increase the civil service by 13 , 000 . I be not prepared to operate in that way , which be why we have take the difficult decision on overseas development today , to be absolutely clear on where the money be come from . in relation to the Leader of the Opposition ' s final point on the approach that we take here and whether there be a difference between we , I hope not . what I have set out be NATO - first , as the bedrock of our security . I hope that be common ground , whatever we may call our respective position . I also set out that we must not choose between the US and our european ally . that be what I fundamentally believe , and I will resist that choice . I hope that be common ground between we , notwithstanding the language that she use , because it be important , not for exchange over the Dispatch Boxes , but for the future defence and security of our country and of Europe . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement on defence and security , because time be a - change and we must all recognise that these be pivotal moment not just for our nation ' s security but for our ukrainian friend , whom we must wholeheartedly support in their fight for survival . in my various interaction with key stakeholder in my role as Chair of the Defence Committee , I have begin to realise that there be considerable consternation among our european ally about whether long - establish and hard - earn alliance — rather than a short - term transactional approach — can still be rely on to secure last peace . also , give the propose reduction in the american presence on our continent , people be look for leadership . I feel that this be our time to step forward as a nation and take the lead on defence and security matter on our continent . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister convey to President Trump and our american ally the anxiety of our european ally and the need to strengthen our transatlantic NATO alliance at this perilous time for Europe , and do he agree that he can be the person to take the lead on defence and security matter in Europe , coalesce with our NATO ally ? order . I say gently to the hon . Gentleman that I know he have a lot to say , but I have a lot of member to get in , include other party leader . I do agree that our alliance be important , and that be why NATO be the bedrock of our approach . it have be for many , many year and will continue to be . I do accept that european ally and the UK have to step up and do more . in our heart of heart , I think across this House we have know that this moment be come for the last three year . we have put that plan before the House , and of course , I will do everything I can to strengthen the alliance and the relationship between the US and the UK . it be a special relationship . it be a strong relationship . I want it to go from strength to strength . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement . three year ago , Putin begin his brutal full - scale invasion of Ukraine , and as we watch russian missile rain down on ukrainian city , we fear he might have strike a decisive blow to Ukraine and its sovereignty , yet Putin underestimate the strength of the ideal we share with our ukrainian friend of democracy , truth and liberty . he underestimate the courage and grit of ukrainian soldier , who have spend three year heroically resist Putin ' s war machine . Britain stand together with our ally in support of Ukraine , and family up and down the country open their door wide for ukrainian refugee , because we know that Ukraine ' s fight for democracy and liberty be our fight , too . in this House , we stand strong together , and yet three year on , the future of Ukraine and security in Europe seem even more perilous . then , Washington be clearly on our side , but now , the United States be vote with Russia , Belarus and North Korea in the United Nations . President Trump label President Zelensky a " dictator " , but not Vladimir Putin . after the second world war , Britain come together with ally around the world to establish NATO and , with America , agree to underwrite security on this continent , recognise that a threat to the security of one nation be a threat to the security of all nation . the event of the past few day be clear : that era be over . we may be watch before our very eye the betrayal of our ukrainian ally by America , and with it , the potential betrayal of Europe and of Britain , too . we must respond . now it be up to the United Kingdom to lead in Europe . as a nation , we must seize this moment . it be for our national interest that Liberal Democrats have support the Prime Minister ' s proposal on Ukraine , include british troop join a reassurance mission in Ukraine if a just settlement be reach . that be why we strongly support the Prime Minister raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % , preferably use seized russian asset to pay for extra defence support for Ukraine . we will scrutinise all aspect of the Government ' s spend plan carefully , but I hope that move at pace to 2 . 5 % mean that Ministers will shortly announce the reversal of the Conservatives ' short - sighted cut of 10 , 000 troop from our armed force . the Prime Minister be right : we must go far , so will he initiate talk between all party in this House to establish the vital consensus need to take we to spend 3 % of gdp on defence as soon as possible ? the Prime Minister will know that for month , we Liberal Democrats have urge the Government to seize frozen russian asset , which amount to over £ 20 billion , and repurpose those fund for Ukraine ' s defence . will he take immediate step to gather european leader and begin the seizure of russian asset , so that we can support Ukraine no matter what America do ? will he , on his trip to Washington , try to persuade President Trump to do the same — to make Russia pay ? the Prime Minister will know that the whole country will be will he on , hope that he might be able to persuade Donald Trump to change his mind on Ukraine . we on the liberal Democrat Benches think he be right to try , but should that not work , will he be clear where the United Kingdom then stand ? will he make it clear that , if absolutely necessary , it will be with Ukraine and our european ally , not Putin and Trump ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support on Ukraine ; it have be steadfast , and it have be across this House . for the same reason that I give to the Leader of the Opposition , that be important not just here but to those in Ukraine . we do need to step up and lead in Europe — we have be say that for a very long time . all european country need to do more , and now be the moment to do so , but we need to do that together with the US , because what be need more than anything be a last peace . a ceasefire that simply give Putin the chance to regroup and to go again be in nobody ' s interest . a last peace mean that we must talk about issue such as security guarantee . we be prepared to play our part , as I have indicate , but I have also indicate that to be a security guarantee , it require a US backstop — US support for that security guarantee . that be at the heart of the case I have be make for some time . as the right hon . Gentleman know , of the asset that have be seize already , the interest on those of £ 3 billion have already be commit to Ukraine , and we be work with our european ally to see what more can be do in relation to the funding that will be necessary . step up mean step up on capability , on co - ordination and on funding , which be what we have do today with this statement . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and this strong commitment to defence spending . I welcome as well the work be do with the Chancellor and the Defence Secretary on ensure that we get as much value as we can for each pound spend on deliver capability . will the Prime Minister reaffirm his commitment to the parliamentary scrutiny of that spending , include on the most sensitive area ? yes , of course ; it be extremely important , and my hon . friend know that well . she be absolutely right to say that we must get value for money . this be a huge increase in defence spending . it be very important that it be use on the right capability in the right way , and that be why we intend to get a much well grip on the money that will be put in . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement . I personally think it be a start , not a finish — I think we will find that we have to raise defence spending far — but I welcome it none the less , and on behalf of all of this House and my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , I will support it . the Prime Minister be due to go to Washington . one problem we have there be that they seem to have reach the conclusion that peace be simply the absence of war . can he remind the President that a peace without justice , the right to freedom and choice in democracy be not peace , but a partial ceasefire ? he might also remind the President that the last great test we face unite the United Kingdom and America , with Lady Thatcher and Ronald Reagan take decision that move Europe in the right direction . can he appeal to the President that , instead of run around make adverse comment , he should link hand with the United Kingdom to persuade the rest of Europe to step up , as we be now step up ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support . the point he make about a last peace and what it must be be really important . this be not just about stop the fighting ; it be about an endure and last peace for Europe and , of course , the sovereignty of Ukraine — the sovereign ability to choose the alliance that ukrainian people want , to choose their own government and to choose how they defend themselves in conjunction with other . it be about the sovereignty of Ukraine , but it be also about the value and freedom across Europe , include our value and freedom . that be why this be such an important moment to ensure that NATO be as strong as it have be in the last 75 year as we go forward , and that the bond between we and the US be as strong as it have ever be . that have to be part of the case — the argument — and the way in which we have step up today and will continue to do so . I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , and particularly his commitment to accelerate the increase in defence spending , although I fear that we may have to visit the 3 % target before the next Parliament . it be very important that we have a whole - society approach to defence . will he be bring forward a strategy to make that happen , particularly around the great need to improve our reservist force ? it do have to be a whole - society response , which be why I set that out in my statement in the House , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise it . of course it have to be a driver of industrial growth and our industrial strategy . aside from a few of Putin ' s poodle , who be not in their seat in the Chamber today , we be of course unite in our support for the people of Ukraine , and in wish the Prime Minister well in his discussion with the President of the United States later this week . but I be afraid that be where the unity end , because while we support increase defence spending , we can not support the populist playbook of cut foreign aid . indeed , that position be share and agree with by the Foreign Secretary just a matter of day ago , when he say that it would be a " big strategic mistake " that would allow China to step in . why be the Foreign Secretary wrong , and the Prime Minister right ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support on the question of Ukraine , which be important . I reassure he that the decision that I have take today on development aid be not an ideological one . I absolutely understand its importance — it be a difficult and painful decision , but a necessary one . he talk about choice . SNP Members welcome the big settlement since devolution in the Budget , but they vote against it because they could not take a choice . the right hon . Gentleman welcome the increase in defence spending , but he do not want to say how he will fund it . grown - up choice about the future of Europe require grow - up decision and choice , and that be what we have do . instability in Europe wash up on our shore , and I accept the hard decision that the Prime Minister have make to invest in defence , which mean difficult decision on international development . can we please invest more in cyber , give the disinformation and cyber - attack that our country face on a daily basis ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that because cyber be one of the tool for warfare these day . that be why we increase funding in the Budget , and why I have adjust the 2 . 5 % to 2 . 6 % in the case present to the House today . I agree entirely with the strategic direction that the Prime Minister have set out . defence and security must come first , but he do have choice about how he fund that important uplift . in the last Parliament , he and I vote together against balance the book on the back of the poor people in the world . do he still think that vote be right ? I be proud of that vote at the time , and proud of the work that our country have do on development . this be not a decision that I want to make , and I absolutely want we to get back to more funding on overseas development and increase those capability . some of that will be help if , as we be do , we get the asylum backlog down and stop use that money to pay for hotel , which be not what it be intend for . this have be a difficult decision . the right hon . Gentleman know how much I value overseas development and how important it be , but I think , and think , that the most important thing today be to be clear about the commitment we be make on defence , to spell out the reason that we be make those decision , and to set out penny and pound exactly how it will be fund . I would not come to the House with a plan that be not credible and not cost , because that would be far bad for our country , but I accept the tenor of what he say about the importance of the issue . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and for the leadership that he have show in these uncertain time . as the Member of Parliament for the home of the British Army , I know that this be hugely welcome news for my constituency and that my community be ready to serve . what will the Prime Minister do to help to create job in the defence sector in my community ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . give the make - up of her constituency and constituent , they be hardwire for this . this be an important obligation that we must rise to , but it be also an opportunity to ensure that the job that will be generate be british job , with british skill , in all our constituency . we will endeavour to ensure that that be the case . we be pleased to hear the announcement that the Government will increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % , but we be still wait for the strategic defence review to be complete , as without that we be in the dark . will the SDR be announce soon , and if not , will the Prime Minister outline how the additional money will be spend ? the SDR be advanced and I will come to the House with it as soon as we can . I want to make sure that we have properly identify the challenge and capability . obviously , we have put the funding forward today . we will do that as soon as we can , and when we do , it will be a credible plan for the House . I thank the Prime Minister for his tireless effort to bring security to Ukraine , because its security be our security . do he agree that that be possible only because we be one United Kingdom , and that that strength , that solidarity , be possible only because our four nation work together ? do he agree that those who attempt to fragment that Union in these perilous time do we great harm ? I do agree with that . as the United Kingdom we have always stand up in moment such as this , and we stand up again as the United Kingdom and be proud to do so . this be an important moment and a juncture after three year of a conflict , and the whole House will be aware of the potential consequence of decision in come week . it be a time for we to pull together . President Trump say that he want his legacy to be that of a peacemaker . in his difficult conversation with the President in a few day ' time , will the Prime Minister remind he that the reason the enforce division of Czechoslovakia before the war be a step on the road to disaster , but the division of Germany at the end of the war do not lead to world war three , be that the western half of Europe at the end of world war two be not demilitarised ? if there be to be a stable Ukraine after any such enforce division , there must be military protection for the unoccupied half of Ukraine . the right hon . Gentleman be right to talk about peace . it be what everybody want , not least the Ukrainians , but it must be a last peace and not a temporary ceasefire . I agree that that mean it need security guarantee . the configuration of that need to be agree , but the security guarantee must be sufficient to deter any further aggression . otherwise it will be a ceasefire , and that would be the bad of outcome for the whole of Europe . I thank the Prime Minister for his leadership and the announcement today , commit we to 2 . 6 % of gdp on defence spending , and 3 % beyond that . that be in stark contrast to the 14 year of erosion of defence spending , the hollowing out of our service , and the service life that result . do the Prime Minister agree with I that the reform put forward by the Defence Secretary be essential to deliver deterrence and to prevent further act of russian brutal imperialist aggression in Europe ? the reform be really important . the strategic review be very important , and the funding be very important . this be a moment when we must step up and play our full part in the defence of our country and the defence of Europe . I have already comment on the plan that the conservative party put forward at the election . I have not quote my word ; I have quote the word of the Institute for Government , which say — [ interruption . ] well , I would say what I think , but what the Institute for Government say be perfectly right . the plan be not properly fund and it be not a credible plan . we have put a credible plan before the House , and I be glad it have be welcome . Plaid Cymru stand firm with the need to safeguard Ukraine ' s sovereignty , because international security be also national security . however , the UK will now cut the already diminish foreign aid budget to fund military spending . national security call for build peace , as well as for armed force . give the importance that overseas aid play in prevent conflict , build democracy and curb warmongering tyrant , to paraphrase the Foreign Secretary , surely cut foreign aid too be a massive strategic and moral mistake ? the right hon . Lady be right to raise the importance of overseas development — I have say that from the Dispatch Box a number of time — but this be a moment when we have to step up and increase our defence spending . of course , everybody in this House would wish that be not the situation . we have have a peace dividend for many year , but that have come to an end . we have to step up and our first duty be to keep the country safe , which require a credible plan . I accept that it be a difficult plan — this be not a decision that I want to make — but it be a credible plan for the defence and security of our country and of Europe . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement . I agree with he that it be the beginning , not the end , of the process , but do he agree that it be not just how much money we spend , but how well we spend it ? will he join I in thank all our armed force personnel for the commitment they show day in , day out to defend our nation ? I agree with both those proposition , and about what we spend and how we spend it . speak for myself , the Government and , I be sure , the whole House , we thank our armed service for what they do on our behalf , day in , day out . it be without doubt that endure peace be achieve only if we have endure security arrangement , so I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement on defence expenditure and the commitment to it . however , I reiterate my observation , and the observation of other , on the way that that money be spend . for a generation , we have be complacent . there be significant dysfunctionality in the way that industry work with Government on the procurement and delivery of defence capability in this country . I urge he to keep his Defence Secretary in place for the duration of this Parliament , so that we can find some common purpose , across this House , and deliver endure reform that stand the test of time . Treasury after Treasury have find it impossible to get to grip with defence expenditure — we must achieve that in this Parliament . the Defence Secretary have just ask I whether he could reply to that question . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point . procurement and the grip on defence spend have not be in the right place , and we have not use our business in the way that we could have do in the past . I gently say that the past 14 year might have be a good period to have get to grip with that , but we need to get to grip with it now . I think that will be welcome by the whole House , because we need to do that . I and many of my colleague start our career in the shadow of Putin ' s first invasion of Ukraine , back in 2014 . we know then what Putin be capable of and what Putin intend to do . however , our service be mark by swinge cut from the Conservative Government that leave our armed force lack key capability . there be an old saying that if you want peace , prepare for war , so will the Prime Minister assure I that the extra cash will be well spend to cover those capability and to take advantage of the new technology we desperately need ? may I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her service ? she be absolutely right that this money must be well spend on the capability that we need , and it will be . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and I wish he well as he go to America to persuade the Americans to side with democracy , rather than vote with dictator . there will be a long lead - in time before we see the effect of today ' s announcement . give that and the overstretched commitment of our armed force , how will he give assurance to the Ukrainians that Britain will be able to supply arm and personnel to defend any peace agreement that be reach ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support . on the question of security guarantee , intense discussion be go on about how that would look and what that might involve . I be absolutely confident that we can play our full part . I will not disclose detail to the House for reason that he will understand , but I be confident that we can and will play our full part in whatever security guarantee may be need . they will , of course , be with US backing , which be important if they be to be proper guarantee . I welcome the uplift in defence spending but , as the Prime Minister have recognise , there have be a difficult decision about our aid budget . like many hon . member , I have see at first hand the impact of the aid budget , not only on tackle poverty but on our own stability and prosperity . I welcome what the Prime Minister have say so far , but will he reassure we that our commitment remain to get back to 0 . 7 % of gdp for overseas aid , as soon as fiscal circumstance allow ? yes , I want to see that . notwithstanding the difficult decision we have take today , I reassure the House that it be important that vital issue , such as those in Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine , be prioritise for reason that be obvious to member across the House . member across the House recognise the need to invest more and to invest differently in defence and security , but it be unbelievably counterproductive and short - sighted to fund that by slash aid to the poor and most fragile country , or by squeeze already stretch departmental budget . why will the Prime Minister not fund this by increase taxis on the most wealthy , rather than place the burden on the poor ? I do not think the plan put forward by the hon . Lady , as far as I have see they , be realistic . to make a commitment such as the one we have make , we have to put forward a credible , costed plan in which we can say with certainty precisely where the money be come from . that be why we have take the difficult decision that we have take today . the Prime Minister ' s statement hit the nail on the head , unlike the ranting of J . d . vance on european freedom of speech at the Munich security conference . I know the statement will be particularly welcome at the Ealing ex - servicemen ' s club , so will the Prime Minister recommit to our veteran , to the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe , and to organisation like the Army cadet centre in Acton and the territorial Army reservist in Wood Lane , either of which would welcome a visit , for those who have serve our nation and those who will do so in the future ? yes , I be happy to make that commitment . I ask my hon . friend to carry that message to her constituent , along with my thank and those of the Government and the House . when the Prime Minister fly off to Washington , he will go with the confidence that this House and the whole country be behind he and wish he well in that very difficult meeting . we know that this country and our continent face possibly the most dangerous moment that we have experience since the height of the cold war . I welcome his statement on increase defence spending , which some of we would say be a couple of decade overdue . will he accept that the benchmark for the success of the defence review be not some arbitrary percentage of what we be spend , but whether we be spend whatever be necessary to give back to our armed force the warfighting capability that be the only real deterrence that the Russians will respect ? I very much doubt that 2 . 5 % or 3 % will be enough ; I do not say that as a criticism , but because , as a nation , we must be prepare for that . I thank the hon . gentleman for his sentiment . at a moment like this , it be important that I be able to carry the House with I as we undertake the next stage of these discussion about the security and defence of Europe . it be a very important generational moment , and this House and this country have always come together and stand up at moment like this . I know he have long be a supporter of increase defence spending and capability , and of the notion that there must be a warfighting capability . he be right about that , which be why we have make the decision we have today . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and his strong leadership . do he agree that as we rightly reassert the concept of take responsibility — of responsibility be take by our own military , people and economy , and by our friend on the continent of Europe — we must also reassert the responsibility of all country to defend the international rule - base system , which have at its core the concept that bully must not get away with invade their neighbour ? if they do , not only will we dishonour the bravery and sacrifice of our ukrainian friend , but our collective security will be weaken . two of those rule - base system be fundamental : the UN charter and the NATO framework and all the article in it . those be hugely important rule - base framework that we must absolutely adhere to . I write many time about the UN Security Council as a lawyer . in my first appearance at the Security Council , I be sit at the table with a country that be in clear violation of the charter , and I do not feel at all comfortable . I have distinct memory of , three year ago , help my ukrainian friend and colleague flee the country as tank come towards their home . since then , people across Harpenden , berkhamste and Tring have open their door to those from Ukraine , but the hope that they once have have turn to fear of what be happen globally . can the Prime Minister assure the british people that when he speak to President Trump , he will push for last peace , and highlight the importance of work with our european colleague ? I thank , through the hon . Lady , everybody in this country who have open their door to ukrainian refugee . I be very proud of the fact that we have do that , and that the ukrainian flag fly in so many place across the country . I can reassure her constituent that this announcement today and the approach that we be take be to ensure that peace continue , but for peace to continue , we have to put ourselves and Ukraine in the strong possible position , and this be a step along that road . it be shameful that in such a volatile world , for far too long , conversation around defence spending have involve a lot of hot air and not much hard action . colleague from across the House will today have to recognise that the Prime Minister have change that , with a clear , funded and need plan for invest in our defence . supply chain be so important to security , so he will recognise , as I do , that what matter be not just what we spend , but where we spend it . how will he make sure that our whole Government be unite in the effort to build up our domestic supply chain capacity , when it come to key defence asset ? this be where the industrial strategy and growth be so important , because as we move to great defence spend , it be vital that we ensure that supply chain be in this country , as far as they can be , and that they lead to british , well - pay and secure job . we know that the defence sector already provide many well - pay job across the country . I want more . rise — can I say to those who be late , please do not embarrass the Chair by stand ? almost on that point , Mr Speaker , what an abdication of responsibility and duty it be that not a single member of the Reform party be able to ask a question of the Prime Minister this afternoon on these precious issue of defence and security . they be treat with a very different level of seriousness by member on the Conservative and Government Benches . many have ask the Prime Minister about the use of russian frozen asset . anybody who have study the issue with regard to Libya will know just how complicated international law and convention have make the defrosting of frozen asset so that they can be put to proper use . in his discussion in Washington and with the other european leader , can the Prime Minister press for urgent , collaborative and international reform of those rule , so that those frozen asset can be use to help the Ukrainians and their military to defeat russian aggression ? the point that the hon . Gentleman raise be important . the process be very complicated , for reason that he will understand . obviously we have be able to use some of the interest on those frozen asset , which have prove valuable to Ukraine , but we need to work with our european colleague and to collaborate on other legitimate , proper way to raise further funding , and we will continue to do that with our ally . I welcome the statement from the Prime Minister . this be a major commitment to our defence ; I think it will be hear across the world and welcome by our ally , particularly those face russian or iranian aggression . how will the Prime Minister ensure that british business , which be so crucial to our defence , be support in their important task ? that have to be do through the industrial strategy and the growth strategy that we will put in place , but it be vital that this be see as not just a duty and responsibility , which it be , but as an opportunity for british business , and for well - pay , secure job , which be so vital to so many community . the Prime Minister know that he can rely on the support of the SNP when it come to effort to restore ukrainian sovereignty in the face of russian aggression , despite the baseless rhetoric from those on the Benches behind he . I would like he to acknowledge that . I welcome the Prime Minister raise defence expenditure to 2 . 5 % , albeit by 2027 , which will be three year after the election , despite the pledge be in the Labour party ' s manifesto . however , it can not be right to balance the book at a cost to the poor in global society , when there be a Government Budget of £ 1 . 1 trillion . when he go to Washington on Thursday and get his pat on the back from the President of the United States , will he spare a thought for those — predominantly woman and child — who will suffer immeasurably , and some of whom will die , as a result of his decision today ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support on Ukraine . the First Minister have set out that support in clear term in recent day ; that be important , and I acknowledge it . we have have to make difficult decision , but as he and the House know , wherever there be war and conflict , it be the poor and the poor who be hit hard . there be no easy way through this , but we have to ensure that we win peace through strength , because anything other than peace will hit the very people the hon . Gentleman have identify hard than anybody else on the planet . that be why it be so important that we have take the decision we have today . national security be the first duty of any Government , so I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement , and his strong leadership today . this government be rise to the challenge of invest in our defence , whereas the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) have say that Vladimir Putin be the leader he admire the most , and that NATO provoke Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . do the Prime Minister share my concern that those comment play right into the hand of Britain ' s enemy ? you do not show patriotism by fawn over Putin . no decent Government cut international development budget lightly . the Prime Minister ' s discomfort be plain for all to see and will be share across the House , but will he look at other thing that perhaps present easy choice — in particular , his choice to spend billion of pound on Mauritius ? will he repurpose that money in defence of our armed force ? obviously in the short term , we have to make decision between the here and now and the commitment to 2 . 5 % in 2027 . have look at the available option , this be the choice that have to be make , and that I think would have be make by any serious Prime Minister make the commitment that I have make today . of course , we need to look at other thing as we go forward from here . many people across the House have mention , and I have set out , the ambition of get to 3 % , but I will put forward only credible cost plan to this House , not fantasy figure . [ interruption . ] the opposition chunter away , but this be a moment for a serious , costed plan . it be not the time for ridiculous , uncosted plan . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . I think the entire House agree that our safety and that of our ally depend on show Putin that we have the resolve and resource to defeat he . we be far more prosperous than he be : european NATO ' s gdp be $ 24 . 5 trillion , and Russia ' s be only $ 2 trillion . clearly , the matter before we be convert those resource into fighting force and mat é riel in the year ahead . can the Prime Minister assure I that the strategic defence review and our defence industrial strategy will ensure that we have long - term order that give we the capacity that we need , as well as secure supply chain , input such as steel and , of course , the ability to scale rapidly if we need to rearm ? I thank my hon . friend for raise those point . they be all important , and of course , they have to be hardwire into the work we do as we go forward . the Prime Minister will have the support of both side of this House when he go to see President Trump on Thursday . if he fail to encourage the US to become the backstop for Ukraine , though , no matter how much he increase spending in the next couple of year , there will be difficulty . what conversation be the Prime Minister have about a backstop for Europe to make sure that Ukraine get that support ? I be not go to pre - empt the discussion I will have , but the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I absolutely believe that we should play our full part in any security guarantee — if that be what happen ; we do not even know whether we will get to that stage — but I also absolutely think there need to be US backing for that , because I do not think a security guarantee will be operative without that backing . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , because although difficult decision have have to be take today , the alternative be inaction — which , of course , be also a decision . do the Prime Minister agree that the lesson of history be that Ukraine ' s survival and its defence be completely indivisible from our own ? yes , I do . that be why I say that this be not just about the sovereignty of Ukraine , but about european defence and security and our own defence and security . we have already pay a heavy price in this country — the contribution we have make have have an effect on our cost of living , our energy price and so much else — but this be fundamental . it be about our value ; it be about our freedom ; and it be about understanding who Putin be , and what his ambition be . we must never forget that . with some of our european ally liken our predicament in 2025 to that of 1938 , the increase in defence spending announce today by the Prime Minister be welcome , but I be concerned that it will come too late . will the Prime Minister look at liberal Democrat proposal to increase the digital service tax , which would raise £ 3 billion this year ? I do not accept the argument that this have come too late . it have come at the point at which we be able to put a credible , cost plan before the House . we have know for three year that this moment be go to come , and the last few week have accelerate this and make it more urgent , which be why I have make the statement I have today . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s leadership today . he be undertake the first duty of any leader , which be the defence of the nation , and reiterate the fundamental british value that our country oppose fascist , and never appease they . he rightly talk about renew the social contract with the british people when it come to job , skill and industry . do he agree that if we be to do that , it must reach every part of our country , include area that I represent that be far too often leave behind ? yes , I do . we must rise to that challenge . many of the well - pay , skilled job in the defence sector be find across the whole United Kingdom . we need to ensure that there be more of those well - pay , skilled job across the whole United Kingdom . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and for acknowledge that although what have be say today be very important , he and the Government will need to come back to we on get towards 3 % . in response to an early question , the Prime Minister say that the peace dividend be go . do he agree that we also need to look at welfare spending , give that in the current circumstance , no serious country can spend more on welfare than on defence ? I do agree with that . the last government let welfare spending spiral by an additional £ 30 billion . some 2 . 8 million people be out of work because they can not go to work due to some health - relate issue . that be a very high number . it be out of control , and we have to get it back under control . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , with which I agree . do he agree that Clement Attlee and Ernest Bevin show that the defence of the United Kingdom and Europe against totalitarianism be at the core of this House ' s value and those of our party ? do he also agree that what we can learn from their great political life be that we will face very many difficult public spending decision over the next decade , and that our moral duty as a Government be to take those decision , however difficult or heartbreaking they may be ? I agree with my hon . friend . these be difficult decision with very real consequence , which I acknowledge . as an early contributor say , though , the alternative to action be inaction , and in the light of the last three year and particularly the last few week , inaction would be completely the wrong thing for our country and our continent . I absolutely agree with the Prime Minister that this be an important moment for our nation , and I welcome the rebalancing of expenditure towards defence . however , do he agree that the success of our national security posture will be judge not by percentage but by the strength of the deterrent that we build , and be it his abide commitment to be unwavere in build such a deterrent ? yes , it be , because I agree with the hon . and learn Gentleman that it be the strength of our deterrent that count in a moment like this . I be very proud of our armed force — those who have provide so much for so long — but now be a time to ask more of they and to step up . the Prime Minister speak about the threat that Russia pose in our water . just a few week ago , I see a piece of undersea cable that have be cut , almost certainly by a russian vessel . what more can the Government do to protect Britain ' s undersea infrastructure from foreign attack ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . it be a bit like cyber : the way in which conflict , war and aggression be demonstrate these day be change , and we must protect our vital asset , include the cable under the sea . I have have extensive conversation with european ally and NATO about how we can well protect that infrastructure . I have be to war three time , each time work for an american general — General Schwarzkopf in the first Gulf war , the outstanding David Petraeus in the second Gulf war , and General Richard Mills of the US Marine Corps in Afghanistan . one of the lesson that keep come up after those war be that we have to prepare for the fight that we do not want to have . I absolutely welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement today . as well as send the Chancellor into the new defence reform and efficiency team , I encourage he to take a personal interest in the way that this money be spend , in order to prepare we for the fight that we do not want to have . I thank the hon . gentleman for his service to his country , and he be absolutely right that we have to prepare for the fight that we do not want to have . I can assure he that as Prime Minister , I have a very keen personal interest , duty and responsibility in all these matter . I welcome the statement from my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister . in place such as Telford — which have a proud defence sector — company , community and supply chain need certainty . british taxpayer will be demand that their money be use to enable British - base company to support our british troop around the world . can my right hon . and learn Friend assure I that each and every pound will be divert to british industry or British - base industry , enable they to support our interest around the world ? I certainly want that to be the case wherever we can . that be why we will have the plan for reform and efficiency , but that need to be translate into british skill and secure british job in every constituency across the land . it be disappointing that the Prime Minister ' s statement do not include any reference to the United Nations , or a pathway to end the dreadful conflict in Ukraine , Gaza , Sudan or the Democratic Republic of the Congo . clearly , his statement will have a massive effect on the poor people in the poor country in the world through a cut in overseas aid budget , but what effect will it have on the poor people in this country — for example , those disadvantage by the two - child benefit cap or by the housing crisis that so many face ? the Prime Minister say that tough decision be come up ; what be go to be the effect of the increase in defence spending on the poor people in this country ? the right hon . Gentleman say I do not mention the UN . the UN charter be at the heart of this , because Russia be in breach of it . Russia be an aggressor that have invade another country and be occupy part of that country , and it will go far if it be encourage down that line . that be why we need to take these decision . it be the first duty of Government to keep our country safe and secure . that be a duty I take extremely seriously . the poor people in this country would be the first to suffer if the security and safety of our country be put in peril . the Prime Minister be absolutely right to say that NATO be the bedrock on which we find our alliance . he be absolutely right to say that we can only achieve peace through strength , and he be absolutely right to cut the foreign development budget to pay for a £ 13 . 4 billion increase in defence spending . it be a difficult decision , but there be nothing more important than the defence and security of the british people . what conversation have the Prime Minister have or do he hope to have with our european ally about their defence spending ? do he hope to see increase across the continent in the future ? as my hon . friend may know , I have have extensive discussion with all our european ally . those have be particularly intense over the past three or four week , and I will continue to have those discussion , because it be right to say that Europe and the United Kingdom need to step up . we need to do that alongside our ally . that mean capability , co - ordination and spending . the good way , in my view , to do that be in a collegiate , collaborative way , work with our ally . that be what I have be do . in a world where our adversary be intent on blunt our national security and prosperity , I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and thank he for his commitment to increase defence spending . can he update the House on what action the Government be take to discourage BRICS nation and other emergent high - growth economy from advertently or inadvertently do anything that would assist Russia in its pursuit of its invasion in Ukraine ? this be a really important issue , and it be important that , as well as sanction , we bear down on those provide assistance to Russia , whether that be country or individual business . we shall continue to do so , work with ally . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister be absolutely right to say that this be a generational moment for this country ' s security . I pay tribute to this generation ' s armed force and all those who work in the defence sector , include in Stevenage , where they be refit the storm Shadows for use by Ukraine for its security and our security . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that the increase in defence spending he have announce today will , do properly , also help the wide economy ? I thank my hon . friend ' s constituent work in Stevenage for their important work . it be important that we make sure that this spending be measure in job and secure job across the country . last night , I attend a concert in Bath abbey call " together we stand " . the ukrainian deputy ambassador be there , and he particularly praise the direct link that my Bath council have form with the city of Oleksandriya . it have form such strong people - to - people contact , and it be endure and provide direct support . what more can the Government do to encourage other council to form these direct link to ukrainian community ? I be pleased to hear about that direct link . I think that people - to - people contact be important , both in relation to our appreciation and understanding of what be go on in Ukraine and in relation to the resilience of Ukrainians . I support any such initiative . I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement . in particular , I know that the ukrainian force on the frontline will be reassure today . clearly , the aid spending decision will not have be take lightly , but follow reduction at the US Agency for International Development , it do mean ten of billion out of the global aid system , which could be exploit by Russia and China . will the Prime Minister consider a deadline for end the accounting of asylum cost to the aid budget , which be currently 28 % , or £ 4 . 2 billion of money that should be use on aid spend overseas ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . it be a really difficult decision , and it be important that we make clear that we remain committed to the work we be do in Gaza , Ukraine and Sudan . it be important , as he rightly say , that we get the asylum number down and the processing do so that we can end the ridiculous use of money — money that should be for overseas aid — on hotel bill in this country . that spiral under the last government . as a veteran , I welcome the move to 2 . 5 % . it be a milestone on the right track to increase defence spending to 3 . 0 % and probably beyond , particularly give that defence chief be report to have request 2 . 65 % . with increase defence spending and suggestion that british force may be involve in a peacekeeping mission , along with ongoing support to Ukraine , it be reassure to see that we be not prepared to acquiesce to russian belligerence . with that in mind , as the Prime Minister prepare to meet President Trump , will he clarify with the President why the US side with Russia and North Korea yesterday , vote against the european resolution that Russia should withdraw from Ukraine at the UN General Assembly ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his service . our position on the UN resolution be clear from the way we vote yesterday . I think that send a very powerful signal of where we stand , and that be with Ukraine . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement today , his commitment to 2 . 5 % defence spending and his continued engagement with our international partner . as we be a proud maritime nation that be face threat from russian interference with undersea cable and from incursion into our water by the shadow fleet , do he agree that now be the time to bolster our Royal Navy ? yes , I think it be important that we bolster across our force . there be threat on land , threat in the air , threat at sea and , indeed , threat under the sea . it be important that we can meet all those threat . I welcome this important statement from the Prime Minister . the Liberal Democrats support an increase in defence budget and the leadership in Europe that the Prime Minister have describe . the Prime Minister speak about the need for unity and a whole - society approach . he will have hear the concern from across the House about the way he be propose to fund this increase in the defence budget , and the deep concern that it will create opportunity for our adversary , Russia and China , around the world . will he undertake to meet other party to build the consensus behind the funding of 2 . 5 % and then 3 % , so that we can maintain the unity and the national purpose that he have so eloquently describe ? I thank the hon . member for his support and that of his party . that be important at a moment like this . so far as the funding of the 2 . 5 % be concern , that have be set out today . the commitment on the ambition to get to 3 % be something that we need to talk about across this House . I will work with all party on any issue of the security and defence of our country . the Prime Minister have deliver a powerful statement today , and I know that his unwavering commitment to the defence of the realm will be greatly appreciate by my constituent in Stockton North . he mention the industrial strategy . do he agree that we need to start immediately to mobilise our steel , chemical and shipbuilding industry , work with regional group such as the Teesside defence and innovation cluster to ensure that we build the capability that we need for our defence supply chain at home ? the industrial strategy and steel within it be vitally important , as my hon . friend and the House will know . steel and our ability to manufacture it be vital to our security , and we must do everything to ensure that be preserve into the future . Scotland want to play its full part in this great national endeavour at this moment of peril , yet , almost incredibly , tomorrow the Scottish Parliament will discuss strip defence company of state funding . it be remarkable . the measure may not pass , of course , and I certainly hope it do not . will the defence industrial strategy take into account what be happen in Scotland , where certain element seem to be side with other national interest , so that we can protect our defence industry and this great country ? across the country , it be important that we stand by our defence sector and enhance our defence sector . we should thank those who work in it for what they be do . today ' s announcement will mean that there be more yet to do . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , this Government ' s unwavere support for Ukraine and this very necessary decision to increase defence spending . as someone whose close family have serve in our armed force , I know that over the year as a country , we have not always provide our servicemen and woman with the equipment and support that they deserve . can the Prime Minister reassure the House that this funding will be use to ensure that our servicemen and woman be provide with that equipment and that support and with respect , give that they be willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for our country ? yes , that be hugely important , and we will ensure that we do so . I have a family member who serve and whose ship go down , and I will never forget the agony that my mother go through until she know for sure that he be safe . that be what be on the line each and every day for our armed service . I thank the Prime Minister for his very strong statement . he have talk of a national security position , a whole - society response and a time for we all to pull together . may I ask he to ensure that Northern Ireland business be part of that national response ? may I also ask the Government to recognise and support the strategic and long - term importance of the Aldergrove military base and RAF station in Northern Ireland , which be able to contribute to not only our national but our international defence ? will the Prime Minister ask the Secretary of State for Defence to meet I to discuss those two issue ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise the question of Northern Ireland . it be important for this to be a whole - United Kingdom effort and contribution , and for we to ensure that those opportunity be there across the whole United Kingdom , include Northern Ireland . I will of course ask the Defence Secretary for that meeting , and I be sure he will agree to it . I spend all last week in Ukraine , and have the opportunity to meet a Defence Minister and a number of soldier on the frontline . the Defence Minister paint a bleak picture of the situation there , include the fact that russian production of arm continue to go up and up and up . meanwhile , the soldier I speak to on the frontline be face unimaginable challenge , and need much more resource to win this fight . I strongly welcome the announcement that defence spending will reach 2 . 5 % , that support for Ukraine will be increase and that defence spending will reach 3 % in the future , because I be convinced that we face an existential crisis in the world . however , as one who found the Labour Campaign for International Development , I be pain by today ' s other news , and I hope we can get back on track for 0 . 7 % as soon as possible . in that spirit , may I draw the Prime Minister ' s attention to the last Labour Government ' s record of thinking of innovative and different way of secure development finance , and may I ask he to meet I , and other Labour Members with development experience , to consider alternative way of finance support for development , such as special drawing right from the International Monetary Fund and more debt relief ? I thank my hon . friend for his commitment to international development . he be absolutely right about that , and we will of course work across the House on alternative and innovative way in which to support development around the world . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement wholeheartedly , and encourage he to get to 3 % as soon as possible . however , we do not just need a monetary value ; we need to know how and where the money will be spend , and that will be do through the strategic defence review , which give assurance to our ally , deterrence to our enemy and , most important , confidence in our troop . will the Prime Minister confirm that the SDR will be publish in the spring — in a couple of week ' time — or will it be delay until June , as the statement seem to suggest ? I do not mean to imply that in the statement ; I be refer to the security strategy . the SDR be well under way , and as soon it have be complete I will put it before the House , but what be most important be for we to get it right rather than meet a timeline . I be not seek to delay it , but I be absolutely clear in my own mind that we need to ensure that we understand the challenge we face , and the capability . I be particularly strike by the development that have take place during the three year of the conflict in Ukraine . the way in which the fighting start three year ago be very different from the way in which it be happen now . I be there a few week ago , and among the thing I take away be the need for we to learn the lesson of Ukraine and bind they into what we be do , rather than think that we be deal with the world of even two or three year ago . that be why I want to ensure that this be the right review and the right strategy to put before the House . let I start by draw attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in respect of the GMB defence manufacturing trade union . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to rebuild the UK ' s industrial capacity in defence . all government face a balance between international collaboration and avoid dependency on complex supply chain which can limit freedom of action , as some of our ally have find in their attempt to aid Ukraine . do the Prime Minister agree that one of the objective of the spending announce today must be to maintain and strengthen our sovereign freedom to aid our ally and defend our own shore ? I do agree with that , and I agree with my hon . friend ' s comment about the supply chain , which be vital to the security effort . the former United States Defence Secretary Jim Mattis once say : " if you don ' t fund the State Department fully , then I need to buy more ammunition ultimately . " can the Prime Minister not see that fund this uplift through official development assistance be short - sighted and a strategic and moral mistake , because prevention be cheap than war , because this give more leverage to Russia and China , and because we do it on the back of the world ' s poor ? in fact , it be something that I never think I would see a Labour Government do , and a pitiful inheritance from 1997 . give that it be a policy choice and not a retrospective fiscal one , and give that it be in direct contravention of the law pass here in 2015 , which rule out the link between level of defence and development funding , will this Labour Government be repeal that law ? the hon . Lady be right to say that prevention be well than war — that be why it be important that we prepare our defence to be able to secure and maintain the peace , and that be precisely why I make my statement today — but she be wrong about the law , and we be not go to repeal it . it be always a surprise not to be call last , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement . it have encourage everyone in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and we thank he for that . as for an increase in defence spending from 2 . 5 % to 3 % , let I gently remind the House that during the cold war it be 7 % — so we have a bit to go yet to catch up , but there we be . the new defence and security agreement with Norway be to be welcome , but I be a great believer in ensure , while we build new room in a house for new family member , that exist family member be comfortable at home with we . what discussion have the Prime Minister have with our close ally , the United States of America , about align our defence strategy and solidify the network of information - sharing ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support . we already work closely with Norway on defence and security , and we want to enhance and strengthen that , which the bilateral relationship will do . of course we need to work with the United States , and I will be leave for the US tomorrow . I have already have a number of conversation with President Trump , and our team be speak continually about these very important matter . I call the ever - patient Charlotte Cane to ask the final question . I welcome much of what be in the Prime Minister ' s statement , particularly what he say about our continued support for the brave people of Ukraine , but I be shock by what he have describe as a difficult and painful decision to cut overseas aid . I suggest that it be nowhere near as difficult and painful as it will be for the very poor family who find that our aid be no long there for they . it be also hugely short - sighted , because help community to be stable and secure reduce the risk of war and unrest . will the Prime Minister please assure we that he will look for less damaging way of fund this much - need increase in defence expenditure ? it be a difficult decision — there be no get away from that — but we can not have a situation in which member of this House stand up and support 2 . 5 % , head to 3 % , and then can not agree , or will not take the difficult decision that be necessary in order to get there . I be not pretend that this be an easy decision , and I be certainly not pretend that it be a decision I want to make as Prime Minister . it be a decision that I be drive to make for the security and safety of our country and our continent . I be grateful to the Prime Minister . we get in all the member who be bob throughout . Warm Home Discount with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the action we be take to protect family in the face of the global spike in gas price . in recent month , wholesale gas price have rise to their high level in two year . they be up nearly 15 % compare with the previous price cap period . as a result , this morning Ofgem announce the energy price cap will rise by around £ 9 a month between April and June . we know this will be unwelcome news for family across the country that be already worried about their bill , but as Ofgem ' s chief executive officer , Jonathan Brearley , say today , " our reliance on international gas market lead to volatile wholesale price , and continue to drive up bill " . this week mark three year since Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , and once again the british people be pay the price of our country be expose to fossil fuel market control by petrostate and dictator . the truth be that every day we remain stuck on gas be another day family , business and , indeed , the public finance be at risk from these kind of price spike . that be why sprint to home - grow , clean energy be the only way to end our exposure and our vulnerability as a country . in the meantime , we be determined to do all that we can to protect people , and today I want to set out the measure we be take . first , we want to provide great help to the most vulnerable in time for next winter . the warm home discount currently give around 3 million family a £ 150 rebate on their energy bill . the current system provide help to those on mean - test benefit , but exclude million of people in home not classify as hard to heat , as a result of criterion introduce by the last government in 2022 . these criterion be see by many as arbitrary and unreliable , and they mean there be family in almost exactly the same circumstance with some receive help and other not . today , we have announce that we will consult on proposal to abolish this restriction , mean all household receive mean - test benefit would be eligible for bill support next winter — from 3 million family in the current system to more than 6 million with our proposal — so that one in five family in Britain would get help with their bill through this scheme , include an additional 900 , 000 family with child and a total of 1 . 8 million household in fuel poverty . this Government be determined to do everything in our power to help people struggle to pay their energy bill and support the most vulnerable in our society . secondly , because of our exposure to fossil fuel , the cost of living crisis see bill rocket to £ 2 , 500 and family plunge into unstable debt — debt that continue to accumulate today . in the system we have inherit , every bill payer pay for manage this debt burden . we be determined to act on behalf of those in debt and all the bill payer who be pay the cost of it . so we be work closely with Ofgem to accelerate proposal on a debt relief scheme that will support household that have build up unsustainable energy debt through the crisis and have no way of pay it . this will be an important first step to cut the cost of service bad energy debt , and under these plan the target would be to reduce the debt allowance pay by all bill payer to pre - crisis level . thirdly , we know that one of the good answer to high bill be upgrade home so that they be cheap to run , so we will shortly announce the detail of around £ 0 . 5 billion pound of funding under the warm home local grant and £ 1 . 3 billion under the warm home social housing fund to invest in home upgrade over the come year and cut fuel poverty . in all , up to 300 , 000 household will benefit from upgrade in the next financial year through our warm home plan — whether it be new insulation , double glazing , a heat pump or rooftop solar panel — which be more than double the number support in the last financial year . we will also ensure that landlord invest in energy efficiency upgrade that will make home warm and bring down cost for tenant , lift up to 1 million people out of fuel poverty , so that we be do everything we can to ensure people have the security of a home they can afford to heat . fourthly , we be clear that we need a regulator that fight for consumer . that be why we have call on Ofgem to use its power to the maximum to protect consumer by challenge unlawful back billing , take action on inaccurate bill , drive the smart meter roll - out , give every family the option of a zero stand charge tariff so they have more choice in how they pay for their energy , and ensure that compensation be give for wrongful installation of prepayment meter . we be move forward on our review of Ofgem to ensure it have the power it need to stand up for consumer and clamp down on poor behaviour by energy company . this set of measure show a Government willing to use all the power at our disposal to help protect consumer . however , important as these measure be , I must stress to the House that there be no proper solution to rise energy bill while this country remain expose to the rollercoaster of fossil fuel market . that be why this Government be move at speed to deliver clean power by lift the onshore wind ban in England , consent nearly 3 GW of solar , set up great British Energy , deliver a record - break renewable auction , make it easy to build the next generation of new nuclear power station , and get on with the job of implement the reform to the planning system , the grid and renewable auction set out in our clean power action plan . I have to report to the House , however , that despite the importance of this mission and the fact that we be run it , we continue to receive representation from opposition party not to speed up , but to slow down and to reject solar power , reject onshore wind , reject offshore wind and reject new transmission infrastructure — representation that , if accept , would leave we more vulnerable and more insecure , with the british people pay the price . let I tell the House that we will reject those representation . we know that every solar panel we put up , every wind turbine we build and every piece of transmission infrastructure we construct make we more secure , and every time the Conservatives oppose those measure , they double down on their legacy of leave this country expose and the british people deeply vulnerable . this government will do whatever it take to stand up for work people now and in the future — protect family and business from the consequence of global event , drive forward our plan to bring down bill for good and do everything in our power to support those most in need . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . today , the Government have announce an expansion of the warm home discount , with a change to the criterion that will see more low - income household receive a £ 150 payment to heat their home , but for many this payment will be immediately eat up by the increase in the energy price cap . we must be clear that the good protection for vulnerable household be to prioritise cheap energy . the announcement today be , frankly , a sticking - plaster approach to rise energy bill . this Government fail to grasp the core issue : energy cost in this country be far too high for business , industry and , of course , bill payer . when the energy price cap rise in 2022 , the now Secretary of State call it a " national emergency " . he call for an urgent freeze on energy bill and cite a lack of leadership . now that he be in government , the only thing he be able to freeze be vulnerable pensioner by take away their winter fuel allowance with no notice . do the Minister think that show leadership ? I know that my constituent , and presumably her too , will be concern about their bill rise , concerned about inflation creep back up — hit 3 % in January , despite the hard work do last year to bring it under control — and angry that labour ' s promise to cut bill by £ 300 be be break . the bad part of all of this be that this government , lead by ideological zealotry from the Secretary of State , be double down . their obsession with go far and fast than any country in the world to meet their own self - impose 2030 target be go to increase people ' s bill even far . the renewable industry have warn that their rush to build record renewable in the next five year will push up price and " consumer will lose out " . the Government ' s rush to build twice as much grid in the next five year as be build in the last decade will increase the network cost on people ' s bill . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that the environmental levy will increase to £ 14 billion in 2030 , largely drive by the hidden cost of renewable , all of which will end up on people ' s energy bill . the Labour party be not honest about its promise during the election to cut bill by £ 300 , it be not honest about its plan to take the winter fuel payment away from million of pensioner live in poverty , and now it be not be honest with the british people about what its plan will do to our energy bill . if we have learn anything over the past few year , it be that the cost of energy be absolutely critical to any modern economy . we can not go on follow ideology over evidence and put political target ahead of what will cut the cost of energy in this country . however , this Government be in denial , which be why they scrap the full system cost analysis commission when the Conservatives be in office . will the Minister say when proposal for a debt relief scheme will be publish ? will she confirm by how much she expect levy to increase over the next five year ? will she commission a full system cost analysis of what the 2030 target will do to people ' s energy bill ? will she confirm by how much bill will rise before we see the £ 300 off , which we be all promise ? the hon . Gentleman be right that energy price be too high — on that , we agree . we also agree that that be worry for family and business across the country . however , I would point out that 80 % of this rise have be drive by wholesale price . I would also gently remind he that the reason we be in this position — the reason we be so expose to global fossil fuel price over which we have no control — be because the Conservatives spend 14 year in government squander the opportunity to accelerate the transition to clean power and reduce our dependence on global fossil fuel price , leave family across the country expose . the status quo be not tenable . we be at a point where energy price be at an historic high , and we get here under his government . that be a status quo that we be not willing to contend with . that be the reason — not because of ideology , but because we see the obvious : as long as we be dependent on global fossil fuel price , we will be on this rollercoaster . that be what be drive the push to clean power . while the Conservatives have no alternative , we have a clear alternative : we run to clean power ; and while we do that , we support the most vulnerable household in the short term . to answer the shadow Minister ' s question , Ofgem be in the process of consult on the debt support scheme as we speak , and we will support it to put that in place . we know that the debt burden have increase by £ 3 . 8 billion , and more than 1 . 8 million household in need of help will be support by that scheme . we be absolutely committed to cut bill — everything we be do as a Government be drive by that desire and clear commitment . we will do that both through short - term measure and , critically , by run at clean power by 2030 . we have a plan to deal with energy bill . the Opposition have a plan to slow down and do nothing , and it will be the british public who pay the price . it be clear that the conservative party leave this country dependent on global fossil fuel supply , which both burn the planet and be damage in term of price control . however , the Tories leave something else as well : a rigged energy market , which give £ 480 billion to the energy industry yet leave 8 million household — probably 17 million people — in fuel poverty , spend more than 10 % of their income on energy . it be therefore welcome that the Minister have today announce an additional £ 150 for the warm home discount , but that , as I understand it , be a one - off payment for next winter . a £ 150 one - off payment will not resolve the underlie problem — today , the regulator have increase the cap by £ 111 or £ 108 , depend on how it be calculate , per year on an ongoing basis . I welcome the Government ' s announcement and recognise the Minister ' s commitment to change the way that thing work . however , will my hon . friend confirm to the House that the Government intend to end this rigged market , which work in favour of the profiteer , and tackle the scourge of fuel poverty , while at the same time secure a just transition to clean energy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we have an energy market that do not work sufficiently in the interest of consumer , and we be committed to turn that around . that be why we be reform the electricity market , why we be try to drive forward a shift from fossil fuel to clean power , and why we be put in place the review of Ofgem , to ensure that customer and consumer be at the very heart of everything we do in the energy market . this be an important step to support household in the short term . we take action this winter , with up to £ 1 billion of support through government and industry to help the most vulnerable customer , and the measure announce today will ensure that we will provide support next winter . however , it be not the end of our ambition ; it be the start of our ambition to reform the energy market . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . it be deeply troubling that we remain so reliant on the foreign gas market and that , as a result , vulnerable people in this country will see an increase in their bill . I completely welcome the proposal to expand the warm home discount . no one should have to choose between heating and eat — we all know that . however , the reality be that we have to get beyond that issue and reduce consumption , instead of just hand public money to our energy giant . the Lib Dems have be call for a 10 - year emergency home insulation plan for a long time , and it be disappointing that the amendment table to the great british Energy Bill by my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) be not take up , so I would be grateful if that could be look at again in any other scope . what timeline can we expect for the upgrade of building standard for new home and the decent home standard for exist property , so that people be not have to consume as much electricity and gas ? until all home be properly insulate , what progress have be make on require all energy company to sign up to a single social tariff , pay particular attention to the pensioner leave cold after the removal of the winter fuel allowance ? I be contact by Michael from H2 - ecO , a company that do lot of retrofitting , who tell I about the home upgrade grant , affectionately know as HUG , which be end in March , when it be due to be replace immediately , with continuity , by the warm home local grant . the company be tell on Friday that it will not be continue , and that there will be a pause — five week before the scheme end . People have be tell that they would be able to pre - register , but now they be tell that there will be a pause . they ask I to tell you that they be concerned that they will lose their contractor [ Interruption . ] sorry — not you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but the Minister . I apologise . order . you have two minute for your contribution , and you be just over that . if you could come to a conclusion , that would be great . I absolutely will , Madam Deputy Speaker . they ask I to ask you — sorry , they ask I to ask the Minister what guarantee can be offer that the scheme will open immediately , and not be slow by review , and when will you set out your long - term plan before 2026 ? when will you set those out , Minister , since I will not be respond at the Dispatch Box ? the hon . Lady be right that insulate and upgrade people ' s home be the route by which we will reduce bill and deliver home that be warm and cheap to run . that be why we be absolutely committed to the warm home plan . rather than there be a pause , we be run at this . next financial year , 300 , 000 home will be upgrade , which be double the number in the previous financial year , and that be just the start for our warm home plan . we be work with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to bring forward the future home and building standard . critically , we have speak to industry , installer and local government , and we be acutely aware that there should and can not be a hiatus . we be move forward with the local grant and the warm home social housing scheme to ensure that there be not one . I ask the hon . Lady to write with the specific of that scheme , because we be try to design it to stop that . critically , on the social tariff , we be clear that clean power be the route by which we will bear down on energy cost in the long term , but that we will need to support the most vulnerable customer as we get there . there be different way to design a social tariff , and we be look at option for how to support the most vulnerable at the moment , and the warm home discount be a key part of deliver that . I call Luke Murphy , a member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . many of my constituent , like other across the country , will be concern about the increase in their energy bill announce today . I therefore welcome the Government ' s extension of the warm home discount , as well as the measure to tackle unsustainable debt and push the regulator to do more to support consumer . I must say that the shadow Minister talk as if his government leave a legacy of low energy price , when it be his Government who leave an appalling legacy of high energy price . I have stand in both this Chamber and Westminster Hall and hear shadow Ministers attack renewable and electric vehicle — do they not realise that they be attack the very mean of bring down the cost of energy ? do the Minister agree that our clean energy mission and renewable be the fast way to ensure we end our dependence on volatile fossil fuel , which also leave we at the mercy of Vladimir Putin ? I thank my hon . friend — that be well say . the conservative party leave we with the high energy price that we have see in a generation . that be a legacy that , quite frankly , should see they hang their head in shame . rather than criticise we for try to unpick and deal with their legacy , I would strongly caution they to support our action . [ interruption . ] it be their legacy ! my hon . friend be right : the way that we get out of this bind , leave by and inherit from the conservative party , be through clean power , deliver renewable that we know be cheap and clean power by 2030 . my hon . friend be right ; the conservative party continue to be misguide . thankfully , we be in the drive seat . I call a member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , Bradley Thomas . rise energy cost affect not just household but industry . Sir Jim Ratcliffe have say that deindustrialise Britain be a false economy because it " shift production and emission elsewhere " . can the Minister tell the House what be more important : chase an arbitrary target or protect industry and job ? business be under pressure from high energy price . we know that . again , I remind conservative party member that give their legacy , they should perhaps be a bit more humble about that . we be work with industry and it recognise that the way to drive down energy bill be through clean power . the Confederation of British Industry come out this week say that our energy revolution be good for business . it be the route to lower energy cost for business and to create job across the country . we have a plan , not just for energy bill but for job and the economy , which be root in clean energy , and that be much well than the legacy that we have inherit . thousand of my constituent be still deal with the cost of living crisis , find themselves in debt because energy price hit record level under the previous Government . energy price continue to go up make those constituent ' live more difficult , so I welcome the Minister ' s statement . will she , however , provide further reassurance about the immediate action the Government can take to regulate energy company who be take their customer for a ride , such as the thousand of my constituent who still do not have meter in their home and who be be bill unlawfully for backdated energy and , in some case , energy that they have not use ? will the Minister give the House further reassurance that there need to be immediate action , as well as a long - term plan from the Government to see the transition to clean energy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out the cost of living crisis that blight constituency across the country , with many people face energy debt totalling £ 3 . 8 billion . she be also right , however , to point out that there be thing that must be do to ensure that customer be serve by the energy market . that be why we be ensure that the regulator have the power — we be also instruct it to use the one it have — to ensure that thing such as back billing , which we know be an issue , do not happen . the rule be very clear and we need they to be enforce to ensure that when customer do not receive the good customer service from their supplier , there be consequence . our review of Ofgem be to ensure that it have the power it need to be that champion for consumer . in the end , the energy market must work in the interest of people . we agree that that be not happen at the moment and it must happen after we reform it . in the UK , electricity price be link to the global fossil fuel market , which be at the bottom of UK household ' pay the high energy cost in Europe . to fix that , the use of a single levy - control system have be suggest , with two simple rate — one for electricity and one for gas — set by Ministers . that would allow the Government to manage the cost for household and low price , especially for clean energy . will the Minister look into that suggestion ? I be happy to meet she to go through those detail far . our reform of the energy market arrangement look at all the aspect of our electricity market that be not work . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) be look at that question and the Department be willing to work across the House to ensure we get to the right arrangement . as long as gas continue to drive the cost of energy , that will create a problem and have an impact on consumer . we be alive to that question and will report on that in due course . I thank the Minister for her statement . I hear from many constituent who suffer with energy debt as a result of the previous Government ' s failure to protect billpayer during the energy crisis . many of they be petrified , unable to move or change provider . I welcome the propose acceleration of a debt relief scheme , but can the Minister provide more detail on how that will help family in my constituency of Portsmouth North ? we know that energy debt be a big problem . I have speak to people across the country who be suffer with accumulate debt that they have no way of pay , with many have to forfeit energy as a consequence . Ofgem be consult on a range of option , but at the heart of that be the principle that there need to be a debt relief scheme . whether we write off some of the energy debt that can not be pay , or put in place payment plan , we want to ensure that those 1 . 8 million household have the opportunity to drive that debt in a way that mean their energy will be sustainable . that be absolutely critical . it deal with the legacy of the energy crisis and the fact that many household have have to accumulate debt because they just could not pay £ 2 , 500 . it be an important step and one that we be keen to support the regulator to deliver . I entirely agree with the Government that , as the Minister say in her statement , we should not be " pay the price of our country be expose to fossil fuel market control by petrostate and dictator . " give that we can not move completely to clean energy tomorrow , why do the Government insist on close down and , indeed , concrete over our potential fossil fuel gas reserve until such time as we can move completely to clean energy ? why should we import it from other state while piously say that we will not extract it from beneath our own country ? there will be a role for gas in our energy mix , but we be very clear that the route and the quick way to get ourselves off that dependence be through clean power . we have make a decision that we will put our energy into drive clean power by 2030 . in the end , that be the quick and good route to deliver for consumer and business and ensure that we can deliver energy security , which we all , across the House , agree will deliver financial security for family across the country . I thoroughly welcome the statement , particularly on the reform of Ofgem and back billing . it be a key plank in the just transition as we move away from a rig energy market that be totally reliant on import of gas from dictator such as Putin . it be not , however , just about the transition to renewable . do the Minister agree that in that transition we will also create hundred of thousand of new green job right across the UK , include in Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , cover onshore wind , offshore wind , geothermal , tidal and solar ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . at the heart of this be the opportunity to create job and boost local economy across the country . that be good not just for our energy independence and family finance , but for every single part of our economy . that be why , rather than slow down , we be committed to accelerate to deliver clean power by 2030 . family and business obviously operate in an environment with lot of different cost . when they see increase in their tax bill , the burden of potential new regulation and additional energy cost , they be bind to challenge themselves on what they can afford to invest . the Minister be clear on the Government ' s strategic direction , but do she not accept that in the short and medium term the burden during the journey to change be enormous for business and will have a massive effect on the level of investment in this country ? do that not concern she ? I challenge the right hon . member on this matter . business be completely behind we because they can see that clean power be the route by which we reduce energy cost and , critically , create job and invest in our industry . that be good not just for people ' s pocket , and for deal with the energy problem , which we know we have to deal with , and the affordability problem , but , ultimately , for the economy . it be good for business . this be a win - win situation . it be a shame that the conservative party can not see it , because it be obvious to we , obvious to industry , and obvious to business across the country . that be why we will continue to power forward with our plan . the previous Conservative Government abjectly fail to insulate our leaky home and get our home heating system ready to take advantage of the cheap , clean energy that Labour be now create . in addition to the very welcome discount that the Minister have announce today , do she agree that Labour ' s plan to upgrade hundred of thousand of home with heat pump and well insulation next year be a vital part of this Government ' s commitment to lower household bill ? my hon . friend be completely right : the previous Government fail to insulate and upgrade enough home to protect people from energy price hike . conservative Members be hang their head in shame and rightly so . she be also right that we be committed to upgrade hundred of thousand of home . that be critical . the way that we ensure that household be insulate from price rise and the way that we drive down price be to upgrade those home . that be a central part of our plan . we be already run at it with 300 , 000 home in the come year , but we will build on that , because we want to ensure that home across the country benefit . I call a member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . chop and change home upgrade scheme , as we see under the previous Conservative Government , cause uncertainty and confusion , which be damaging for both consumer and installer alike . will this Government avoid that mistake by set out long - term plan for energy efficiency scheme that go beyond 2026 ? one hundred per cent . we need a long - term plan , so that every part of the system can respond to that . our warm home plan will try to set a long - term trajectory , so that we can marshal every part of the system necessary to deliver hundred of thousand of upgrade , year in , year out . may I welcome the Minister ' s announcement around the expansion of the warm home discount scheme ? about 160 , 000 home in my region will get £ 150 more help with their energy bill , but , clearly , the root cause of high price be high natural gas price , which have double since the election in July 2024 . we know that natural gas be 50 % to 75 % more expensive than wind and solar , because the sun and the wind be free , and natural gas be not . can the Minister assure I that we will get into clean energy by 2030 , so that we can get our energy bill down for good ? I thank my hon . friend for make the point so well . he be absolutely right that this be the route by which we can deliver cheap energy . I can assure he that we be commit to drive this for the reason that he say . this be the way that we break the stranglehold that we be in . this be the way that we get off this rollercoaster of price rise and price fall that be impact household across the country . the commitment be there , and we be run with that commitment . yet again , an Energy Minister come to the House to tell we that they be move at pace . the only thing move at pace be the last shred of credibility from that Department as it talk about protect consumer from high energy price . let we not forget that this be the Labour party that strip 900 , 000 scottish pensioner of their winter fuel payment , and that tell we that fuel price would go down £ 300 , when they be now £ 600 high than the level it promise they would be ahead of the election . can the Minister explain three thing to I ? do the Labour party profoundly misunderstand how energy in the United Kingdom work , or be it mislead the electorate ? why be it that the Minister be make such a big deal about Ofgem do its actual job of get after back billing ? should it not be do that anyway ? why be that an announcement ? thirdly , when will consumer in GB finally see some response from this Government about high energy bill ? I remind the hon . member that the Scottish Government have jurisdiction in this area . we be work in collaboration with they to deliver this , but the Scottish Government do have responsibility in this area and he know it . we be committed to bear down on energy bill — of course we be . it be the central drive mission of everything that we be do as a Government . it have be eight month . I hope that everyone can see from what we have do — whether it be remove the ban on onshore wind , whether it be a record - break auction , or whether it be the plan that we have to support the most vulnerable household — that we be run at this . we take our commitment seriously , and we be do everything in our power to drive it . I suggest that the hon . Gentleman remind his colleague in Scotland that they should be use the power that they have , include with the warm home discount , to protect their consumer . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . this extra support will make a huge difference to resident in my constituency of Harlow . one of the issue with live in a post - war new town be that all the house be build at roughly the same time , so the issue of insulation all appear at roughly the same time . at this morning ' s crisis summit , which I and the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) attend , there be a strong feeling that cross - departmental communication be key to ensure that funding get to the people who need it the most . do the Minister agree ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . that be why we be work with the Department for Work and Pensions and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , and across Government , to target this support at household , so that we be help people who we know be struggle . it be interesting to hear the Minister say how humble we on the conservative Benches should be . clearly , the Secretary of State for Energy , Security and Net Zero be so humble that he have not even bother to turn up for this supposedly important statement . it be no more than a smokescreen , as we be see energy bill go up yet again . when will my constituent see the £ 300 energy cut that be promise by the Government ? the Minister talk about international market . why on earth be this Government not look again at drill in the North sea ? it be vital that we do so today ; then , rather than just help out a little bit with mean - test benefit , they could perhaps afford to do more for my constituent who be on £ 12 , 000 or £ 13 , 000 a year , and for pensioner who be lose their winter fuel payment this very year . why will they not take a look at that ? give the legacy of the right hon . Gentleman ' s party , a bit more humility be warrant . we be commit to drive down energy bill . everything that the Department be do hinge on the central task of get clean power . everyone , include the regulator and industry , recognise that price be go up because of our reliance on global fossil fuel . we be committed to deal with that , and to provide support to the most vulnerable . we be take action . the Conservatives be in power for 14 year and do absolutely nothing . absolute shame on they . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . will my hon . friend join I in praise the work of Citizens Advice team , such as those that I have see in my constituency of Rugby , who provide really useful support ? they help people to navigate the numerous support scheme that the Government have put in place . they also deal with debt management and income maximisation . they be help our constituent at a difficult time with the cost of living crisis that we inherit . do she agree that this be valuable work that deserve our continue support ? my hon . friend be completely right . Citizens advice team , and the network of third - party organisation and charity that they work with , be provide some of the most vital support to our constituent at a really difficult time . Citizens Advice be a key partner . we work with it and engage with it . I be go across the country meet its team , because we absolutely need their help to target support at the most vulnerable . I thank the Minister for her statement , but not for the madness contain within it . recently , we have discover a new gas field in Lincolnshire . we could frack the gas , yet we be still import fracke gas from the United States , which be create all sort of mayhem in the atmosphere . do the Minister agree that it would be well for the environment if we fracke our own gas , rather than import it from America ? I be disappointed that the hon . Member do not listen to my statement . if he have listen to it properly , he would not have come up with that statement . once again , there will be a mix , but we be clear that the quick route to drive down energy bill be through clean power by 2030 . that be sprint at it . there be no other route to deliver energy security and financial security for our country . the industry be behind we on this , and we be work to deliver it . I welcome the support in this statement , and the fact that 300 , 000 house will be insulate in the next year . do the Minister agree that the only long - term solution that will lead to energy security be our clean power plan ? it will be good for area like mine . the Confederation of British Industry point out yesterday that the green economy be grow three time quick than the wide economy in this country . People want we to speed up , not slow down . my hon . friend be 100 % right . this be the route by which we will deliver for people ' s pocket and , critically , deliver the job that we need across the country and boost our economy . we be clear - sighted about what need to be do . it be a shame that the conservative party be so blinkered . we need to produce more energy at home from renewable and oil and gas , as we need a diverse energy mix in the UK . that will help we to deal with the volatile global energy market . when will the Government change course and support the UK ' s oil and gas industry , include the cluster base in north - east Scotland , and issue new oil and gas licence to help bring down bill for resident across the country and in my constituency ? I direct the hon . member to the clean power plan , and the analysis do on the way to deliver energy security . we be clear that this be the quick and good route by which to do that . in the end , one thing guide what we do : the need to get low bill for the long term . we believe that this be the way to do it . the rest of the system agree with we , from the regulator through to NESO . our job be to crack on and deliver that . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , which have practical step to support people with their bill , and a long - term plan , deliver at speed , to transition to a resilient , sustainable , clean energy system that take advantage of the incredible advance in renewable in recent year . offshore wind be provide really low - cost power , underpin by UK - lead innovation in technology such as hydrogen . the Minister have lay out ambitious plan for support household in upgrade their home , and have make excellent early progress on those upgrade . will she continue work in partnership with UK innovator and manufacturer to make it not just possible but easy for homeowner to keep their home warm with dependable , clean and affordable energy ? my hon . friend be completely right . we be commit to work with industry on upgrade our home . we believe that that be the way to drive down bill , but we need to make this as easy as possible for consumer across the country . we be work with industry and across the piece to deliver at pace . I welcome many of the measure in the statement , although I echo the request from my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) that we consider decouple electricity and gas price ; that would make such a difference . in 2023 , Sutton council be block by the opposition conservative group from partaking of an EU grant to help upgrade some of our council house to energy performance certificate rating C . I welcome the warm home social housing fund , but I encourage the Minister and the rest of the Government to increase the amount available in these fund , so that we reward as often as possible council that be ambitious to provide well , warm home for their resident . we be commit to work with local and regional government . we be increase the support provide and be ensure that it be long - term support , because we agree that the route to insulate lot of home be through partnership with local and regional government , to deliver home that be warm and cheap to run . Northern Ireland be the only region of this United Kingdom where the warm home discount scheme be not available . since 2011 , the UK Government have fail to grasp this issue . the reason give be that fuel poverty be a devolved issue , but the same can be say of Scotland and Wales . when the price increase in Northern Ireland be announce next week , the assistance will not be available . will the Minister meet I to discuss this matter ? furthermore , will she open conversation with the Northern Ireland Executive about right this wrong ? we be reach out to and work with the Northern Ireland Executive . I would be happy to meet on this issue . extend the warm home discount to all household that receive mean - test benefit could make a difference to many , especially those who have not receive their winter fuel payment this winter . however , £ 150 off will not go far enough to help the 56 % of adult in Wales likely to ration their energy over the next three month , accord to National Energy Action Cymru . with the energy price cap rise again in April , will the Minister admit that we need long - term solution that ensure energy affordability , such as the social energy tariff , which I have ask for since I come to this House last July , in order to support — order . I agree that we need long - term solution . that be why we have talk constantly about the clean power mission , and why we be clear that while we make the transition to clean power , we will support the most vulnerable household . as an important first step , we be extend support next winter to over 6 million people who we know be struggle . we will continue to build on that in the week and month ahead . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during the statement on defence and security , the leader of the Scottish National party , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , describe Reform UK mps as Putin ' s puppet and say that they be miss from the Chamber during the statement . that be not true . I be present for the Prime Minister ' s statement , leave for a comfort break and return for the rest of the session . in fact , I have be in this Chamber for nearly four hour today . funnily enough , when I return to the Chamber , the leader of the SNP and his mp be not actually present . the leader of the SNP have mislead the House and should apologise , if you can find he . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order , although it be slightly long than what he provide notice of . I have no doubt that he let the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) know that he would be speak about he . the hon . Member should know that it be not appropriate to accuse other member of mislead the House . as ever , it be vital that member in all part of the House maintain good temper and moderation in debate . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . many people will have become aware of the recent controversy regard the BBC ' s decision to broadcast on its iPlayer service the documentary " Gaza : how to survive a Warzone " . it only withdraw it after public outcry . it feature the son of a Hamas deputy Minister , and there have be the further revelation in the past 24 hour that the cameraman on the film put up a celebratory tweet after the 7 October massacre . the Culture Secretary have already indicate publicly that she want to speak to the director general of the BBC about this outrageous lack of due diligence , but have she indicate to the Speaker ' s Office that she intend to make a statement to the House , to allow right hon . and hon . member to seek further clarification and get answer for the wide public ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I have not receive any indication that a Minister intend to make a statement to the House on this matter , but Department for Culture , Media and Sport question will be on Thursday , and I be sure that the Table Office can advise he on how to pursue this matter far . BILL present Crime and Policing Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Yvette Cooper , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Shabana Mahmood , Secretary Steve Reed , the Solicitor General and Dame Diana Johnson , present a Bill to make provision about anti - social behaviour , offensive weapon , offence against people ( include sexual offence ) , property offence , the criminal exploitation of person , sex offender , stalking and public order ; to make provision about power of the police , the Border Force and other similar person ; to make provision about confiscation ; to make provision about the police ; to make provision about terrorism and national security , and about international agreement relate to crime ; to make provision about the criminal liability of body ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 187 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 187 - en ) . River Wye ( Cleaning ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish and implement a plan for clean and improve the water quality of the River Wye ; and for connected purpose . as shadow Leader of the House , I be rarely allow to speak on behalf of my constituent from the Back Benches , so this ten - minute rule motion be a priceless opportunity for I to highlight a vital issue of both local and national significance — the plight of the River Wye . the Wye be one of the most beautiful and ecologically significant river in the UK . rise from the slope of Plynlimon in mid - Wales , it wind its way via Hay - on - Wye and Hereford on to Ross - on - Wye before head down to Symonds Yat , Monmouth , Tintern and the severn estuary . the Wye valley , too , be renowned for its beauty . it be a special area of conservation with two site of special scientific interest . the river be thus a vital part not only of the local economy in Herefordshire but of our landscape , our culture and our heritage as a nation . admire since roman time , the river be one of the birthplace of british tourism , the origin of the movement know as the picturesque and the inspiration for some of the fine poetry in the english language , yet in recent year it have face huge environmental pressure , particularly from high phosphate level , which have harm water quality and aquatic life . the rapid growth of certain farming sector , include poultry , have bring economic benefit but also place additional strain on the river . as well as agricultural run - off , sewage and waste water discharge and change in land management have contribute to the problem . those pressure have be compound by rise in water temperature and change to seasonal water flow . many of those specific problem and their interaction be still not fully understand , so there be a real need for proper research . build on the work of Councillor Elissa Swinglehurst and the Wye and Usk Foundation among many other , I first highlight this issue in September 2020 . from the start I press the agency — the Environment Agency , Natural England and Natural Resources Wales — for a collective response and call on they to produce a cross - border , all - catchment long - term action plan . in June 2021 , work with other catchment mps at the time , I invite the national agency and the local council on both side of the border to a special meeting devote to the issue . in October 2021 , I co - ordinate a letter from Wye catchment mps to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury call for a specific spending package devote to the Wye in the 2021 three - year spending review . the result , notwithstanding lockdown and other pandemic delay , be the Hereford Shell Store meeting of July 2022 and the setting up of the wye phosphate working group , whose term of reference be then adopt — very much with my support — by a phosphates commission establish by the four local authority . all those thing help to bring people and group together . in the course of that work , I be pleased to say we also have one major win of substance . I have call for the proceed of fine on water company to be ringfence and devote to a new national river recovery fund . in November 2022 , the Government accept that ringfencing . in relation to the Wye , it be important to be aware that much good work have be do on the ground . the cross - border nutrient management board have carefully assess and assemble a range of potentially useful measure . thank to detailed assessment work with Welsh Water , it now look as though local sewage and waste water discharge will be bring within national standard — though only by the early 2030 , which be still far too slow . the community response on both side of the border have be magnificent , with hundred of volunteer citizen scientist actively take weekly water reading under the aegis of the friend of the wye and other organisation . at the national level , I be sorry to say that progress in address these issue have be painfully slow . for year , the creation of a high - level catchment - wide plan , essential to manage this cross - border issue , be impede by political difference between the Welsh and UK government . meanwhile , the regulatory agency struggle to enforce exist environmental protection effectively . finally , after three ministerial visit , include one by the then Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to Hereford in June 2023 , we manage to secure publication of the River Wye action plan last year . that at least cover the english part of the river , and £ 35 million be reallocate from within exist DEFRA budget to fund mitigation and the development of an integrate long - term recovery strategy . the then Government also announce that they have appoint a new river champion , whose job it be to lead the detailed planning work in collaboration with key stakeholder on both side of the border . the plan for the Wye be by no mean perfect , but for the first time it provide a framework , badly need money to support project and research , and a name person to help drive thing forward on the ground . it be therefore deeply disappointing when the plan be drop by the new Government after the general election , alongside the idea of the river champion . it be still more disappointing that the Treasury be also now row back on the previous Government ' s commitment to ringfence money from fine on water company and use they for a river restoration fund . that be a massive step backwards . water company have pay many ten of million of pound in fine since 2022 alone . that money should go back into save our river . what be to be do ? protect and restore the Wye require a long - term , collaborative approach , as I have highlight . the UK and Welsh Governments , the agency , farmer , business , local authority , environmental group and local people all have a role to play in develop a strategy that balance economic sustainability with environmental responsibility . while I be very glad that my colleague the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) be sponsor the Bill , it be a great pity that other Wye catchment mps have choose not to . indeed , I do not notice a single Wye catchment MP in the Chamber ; a great sadness . the Bill be clear and simple in its intent . it would for the first time require the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs in law to publish and implement a plan for clean and improve the water quality of the River Wye . that be a measure that every MP of every constituency inside or outside the Wye catchment should be enthusiastic to support . solution must include well land management , improved water treatment , effective incentive for sustainable farming and strong oversight and enforcement . the Wye catchment 2025 management plan be design to cover not just water quality but biodiversity loss and flood and drought vulnerability . the nutrient management board provide an important framework of public accountability in relation to measure affect nutrient and water quality . in other word , many of the key clean - up measure and mitigation be well understand . what we need now be action . we need an end to delay . we need political leadership from Ministers on both side of the border , a share determination to address this vital national issue with the seriousness it deserve , and the funding — the £ 35 million cut from the plan for the Wye — to make it happen . the River Wye be a true national treasure . it require not just short - term measure but a sustained , collective effort lead by the UK and Welsh government to ensure that this magnificent river be fully restore to health as swiftly as that can be achieve . question put and agree to . order , that Jesse Norman and Ellie Chowns present the Bill . Jesse Norman accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 186 ) . Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Ian Sollom have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . we be a country of incredible talent and enterprise ; a country of industry and invention . our university lead the world . our college deliver excellence to hundred of thousand up and down the country . british company found on great idea export their product across the globe . our strength range from research to manufacturing and from professional service to creative industry , yet there remain a wide and grow gap between where we be now and what I know our great country be capable of , because , despite our many strength , there be skill miss from our workforce . there be skill miss by people who want to get on in life , get well training to land that great job and earn a decent living ; skill miss by our employer , with business , hospital , lab and factory hold back ; skill miss by so many of our community , with town and city leave behind as industry have move on ; and skill miss by our country . those skill be vital to the security and growth that this Labour Government be so determined to deliver . our late datum show we that half a million vacancy sit empty simply because employer struggle to find the right staff with the right skill : the most since we start collect the datum in 2011 . that be half a million job not fill , half a million career not boost and half a million opportunity not take — a tragic waste that this country simply can not afford . but I be sorry to say that this be not surprising . we have fall behind our neighbour on high technical qualification — the one that sit just below degree level , but which can lead to well - pay , fulfilling career for software developer , civil engineering technician or construction site supervisor . over 90 % of employer value basic digital skill in their job candidate , but more than 7 million adult lack they . our skill gap deal our people and our country a double blow . they hold back the economic growth we need to invest in our public service and drive national prosperity , and they hold back the ambition of work people who deserve the chance not just to get by but to get on . they deny they the opportunity , the power and the freedom to choose the life they want to live . would the Secretary of State agree that one of the difficulty be that employer can not spend the money from the apprenticeship levy easily , and that too much of that money be retain by the Treasury ? will she undertake to speak to the Chancellor to see whether she could make it easy for employer to spend that money on training ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the Chancellor be as commit as I be to ensure that we have the right skill within the economy , because without they we will not be able to deliver the economic growth that be the no . 1 mission of this Labour Government . but we be committed to reform the fail apprenticeship levy , reform the system and convert it into a growth and skill levy with more flexibility for employer . as a first step , this will include short - duration and foundation apprenticeship in target sector , make sure that we be work more effectively with employer in order for our economy to grow . I welcome the commitment to skill that the Secretary of State be articulate , but will she recognise that too often the advice give to young people , particularly from school , be to pursue an academic career — I use the word " academic " in the loose possible sense — rather than to engage in practical learning ? that mean that while the shortage she describe be profound , there be also many people who be graduate in non - graduate job owe a lot of money and with pretty useless degree . I be almost on the point of say that I agree with much of what the right hon . Gentleman have to say , but unfortunately he go and ruin it at the end with that comment about the value of university education and of have the chance to gain a degree . where I do share common cause with he be that I want to make sure that all young people have a range of pathway available to they , include fantastic technical training route , include through apprenticeship , but I also want to make sure that young people with talent and ability be able to take up a university course if that be the right path and the right choice for they . as we be recently celebrate National Apprenticeship Week , I take the opportunity to see across the country some of the fantastic route that be available in area such as construction and nuclear , with really wonderful job opportunity and career where young people be able to make fantastic progress . I have the opportunity to visit Harlow College during National Apprenticeship Week , and I really agree with the point that my right hon . friend be make . do she agree that if we be to achieve the new home target that we really want to achieve and get people off the street and into those home , we need to train those apprentice now and that Skills England can be part of that future ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I know how much he champion , in his constituency and in the House , opportunity for young people to have the chance to take on new skill , include through apprenticeship route . where it come to construction , he be right to say that there be fantastic opportunity out there . it be hearten , during some of my visit during National Apprenticeship Week , to see the fantastic contribution that woman play in construction , break down some of the stereotype that exist about the right opportunity , and to meet some amazing engineering apprentice and bricklaying apprentice . those woman be really trailblaze in an industry that be often very male - dominate . on the subject of construction , do my right hon . friend agree that a huge amount of the construction industry be make up of small employer and that one of the big failing of the apprenticeship levy approach have be that small and medium - sized enterprise have be shut out ? we have have a 50 % reduction in the number of sme offer apprenticeship since the introduction of the levy . how will she increase the number of sme that be able to offer apprenticeship ? if the major employer be the one that have all the budget , how do we ensure that we increase the number of SME apprenticeship ? my hon . friend have a long - stand interest in this area and have consistently raise not only the challenge face by small business but the opportunity to create more apprenticeship start and more training route for people across our country . one of the change that we set out during National Apprenticeship Week be to the math and english requirement for adult apprentice , which will make a big difference to employer large and small and be welcome by business , but he be right to say that much more be need to help small employer and small contractor to take on apprentice . that be the work that Skills England will drive forward and that be why this Bill be such a crucial development . the skill gap that we face in our country deny people the opportunity , the power and the freedom to choose the life that they want to live . but it be not just today that we count the cost ; those gap limit our power to shape the career , the economy and the society of tomorrow as well . only with the right skill can people take control of their future , and only with the right skill system can we drive the growth that this country need . it be time this country take skill seriously again : no long an afterthought , but now at the centre of change ; no long a nice to have , but now a drive force for opportunity ; no long neglect , but now a national strength . there be much to celebrate . plenty of college go above and beyond , plenty of employer be ready to contribute and plenty of people be eager to upskill , but our system need reform . too many people have be sideline and leave without the skill to seize opportunity . one in eight young people be not in employment , education or training . we can , and we must , do more to break down the barrier to learn that too many people still face . we need a system that be fire on all cylinder . the figure in Stoke - on - Trent be even more stark , with 22 % of young people not in education , employment or training . we have a wonderful ecosystem of college , with Stoke sixth form college , Stoke - on - Trent college and the University of Staffordshire , but as my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) say , we also have small and medium - sized organisation . can the Secretary of State set out how this Bill will help an organisation such as the Spark Group , run by Dan Canavan , to tap into opportunity in order to spread his ability to help those young people into well - pay job in my community ? my hon . friend name a fantastic business in his constituency and the contribution that it make . there be a lot more that we need to do to support small employer to be in a strong position to benefit from apprenticeship . this Bill will bring together the many disparate part of a very fragmented system , which employer , particularly small employer , often find hard to navigate the right way through , and be not always clear about the good training and qualification route in order to find the people that they need . also , the change we have make to English and math in particular will support employer to create 10 , 000 additional apprenticeship every single year . [ Official Report , 26 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) this be a call that we hear loud and clear from employer , and it be a simple , straightforward change that will open up opportunity for people across our country . they will still have the English and math standard as part of their apprenticeship , but they will no long be hold back by some of the red tape that have deny they the chance to get on in life . the skill system that we have right now be too fragmented , too confusing and too tangle up across too many organisation . there be no single source of truth , no single organisation able to zoom out and see the big problem and no single authority able to bring the sector together to solve they . the result be a system that amount to less than the sum of its part . for young people , it can be hard to know where the opportunity lie . adult look to upskill or reskill and work people hope for a fresh start be too often meet with confusion , not clarity . they be present with a muddling mix of option when they need clear pathway to great career . it be no well for employer . they tell we that the system be difficult to navigate and slow to respond . they tell we that they be too often shut out of course design and that their voice be too often not hear . the result be frustration . learner and employer be frustrate , and they be right to be frustrate . many business do a good job of invest in the skill of their workforce , but other simply be not spend enough . investment be at its low since 2011 at just half the EU average . we must empower business to reverse the trend by invest in their employee , and for that , we need to move forward . there will always remain a strong and galvanise role for competition , but where it be harmful , add complexity , duplicate effort or twist incentive , we will balance it with supportive co - ordination to ensure that all part of the system be pull in the right direction . here be our vision and the change we need . from sideline to support , we need a system that help everyone so that business can secure the skilled workforce they need . from fragmented to coherent , we need a system define by clear and powerful pathway to success and towards effective co - ordination . we also need a system of partnership with everyone pull together towards the same goal . that be the change that Skills England will oversee . this Labour Government be a mission - lead Government with a plan for change , and skill be essential to labour ' s mission to drive economic growth and break down the barrier to opportunity . in fact , skill go way beyond that . skill training contribute across our society , and great skill training drive by Skills England , support by my Department , guide by the wisdom of college , university , business , mayor and trade union , and direct by national priority and local community be the skill system we need . it be a system that will drive forward all our mission . it will help we fix our NHS , create clean energy and deliver safe street . skill be the fuel that will drive a decade of national renewal , which be vital for our plan for change . that be why early this month we unveil our plan to help thousand more apprentice to qualify every year . that mean more people with the right skill in high - demand sector from social care to construction and beyond . we have listen to what business have tell we . we will shorten the minimum length of apprenticeship and put employer in charge of decision on English and math requirement for adult . last November , the Government announce £ 140 million of investment in homebuilding skill hub . once fully up to speed , the hub will deliver more than 5 , 000 fast - track apprenticeship a year , help to build the extra home that the people of this country desperately need . we be drive change for our skill system , and Skills England be lead the charge . it will assess the skill need on the ground regionally and nationally now and in the year to come . where skill evolve rapidly and where new and exciting technology be accelerate from AI to clean energy , Skills England will be ready to give employer the fast and flexible support they need . I represent a coastal community . coastal community have be forget over the past 14 year almost as much as the skill agenda . in my constituency , Bournemouth and Poole college lead by Phil Sayles , who be do incredible work , be about to open the green energy construction campus in April , which will enable solar , heat pump and rainwater capture skill to be teach to apprentice and trainee . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate the college , and do she agree that college like that one be critical to achieve clean power by 2030 ? I be delighted to hear my hon . friend ' s experience from Bournemouth . our college be a crucial part of how we ensure that we have the skill we need in our economy , but also how we will drive forward our agenda on clean energy . he be also right to identify the enormous opportunity for job , growth and training , as well as , crucially , the imperative of ensure that we have stability and security in our energy supply , so that never again be we so expose to the fluctuation of energy market that happen because of the invasion of Ukraine . I want to amplify the valuable skill that our college be teach in renewable technology . I recently visit South Thames college in Wandsworth , where I see the lab it have set up to teach the installation of heat pump and other renewable technology . the main challenge that the college face be find staff to teach the class and to take on the apprentice and all the other learner . what support will the Government give to college to ensure that they can recruit experienced individual to pass on those skill to the apprentice , so that we can provide the workforce that we dearly need ? the hon . Gentleman be right about the challenge across the further education sector . sadly , we know those challenge all too well after 14 year of failure under the Conservatives . we recognise the enormous opportunity that come from invest in our fantastic college . that be why at the Budget we announce an extra £ 300 million of additional revenue for further education and £ 300 million of new capital investment . that also build on our investment to extend target retention incentive payment of up to £ 6 , 000 after tax to eligible early career fe teacher in key subject area . our fe sector will have a crucial role to play in our mission for growth and opportunity , and he be right to draw attention to that . Skills England will be ready to give employer the fast and flexible support they need . while update to course in the past have be sluggish and leave behind by new technology , the Bill will help we keep up with the pace of change . skill England will draw on high - quality datum . it will design course that be demand - lead and shape from the ground up by employer . employer should be in no doubt that they will have a critical role in course design and delivery . that be why I have appoint Phil Smith to chair Skills England . Phil bring a wealth of business expertise from his two decade lead Cisco and will ensure that employer be at the heart of Skills England . I have appoint Sir David Bell as vice - chair , draw on his wealth of experience across education and Whitehall . I have also appoint Tessa Griffiths and Sarah Maclean as chief executive on a job - share basis , with Gemma Marsh as deputy chief executive . they will provide strong , independent leadership to move the skill system forward . skill England will be hold accountable by an independent board , and the Bill require a report to be publish and lay before Parliament , set out the impact on technical education and apprenticeship of the exercise of the function in the measure . the clear relationship between the Department and Skills England be govern by a public framework document , which will be publish for all to see . it will be a core constitutional document produce in line with guidance from the Treasury , make clear the different role of my Department and Skills England . Skills England will reach across the country . it will not be trap in Whitehall but spread to every town and city , because growth and employment must benefit every part of the country , not just where it be easy to drive growth . that mean be ambitious , especially in area that have be overlook for decade , because talent and aspiration be no less present in those place . skill England will drive co - ordinate action to meet regional and national skill need at all level and in all place . it will work closely with mayoral strategic authority and local and regional organisation , and it will connect with counterpart in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . Skills England will simplify the system by combine function within one powerful body and pull together the disparate strand of Departments , local leader , college , university and training provider and weave they into a coherent offer for business and learner alike . to see why the skill revolution be so important for growth and why we must take skill seriously again , we should look no far than the UK ' s stall productivity over the last decade and a half , drag down our economy and cut off hope of high income for worker . the skill system be central because , despite all its problem , the expansion of workforce skill drive a third of average annual productivity growth between 2001 and 2019 . here we have a chance . here we see what be at stake . if we get this right by invest in our people and back Skills England , we can drive productivity and get economic growth back on track . at the same time , we can give work people power and choice because that be what good skill can offer : the chance for they to take control of their career and take advantage of the opportunity that our economy will create . that be why Skills England will work to support the forthcoming industrial strategy unveil by the Chancellor last November . the next phase of its work will provide further evidence on the strategy ' s eight growth - drive sector : advanced manufacturing , clean energy , the creative industry , defence , digital , financial service , life science , and professional and business service . add to those be two more : construction and healthcare . Skills England will work closely with the Industrial Strategy Council , which will monitor the strategy ' s progress against clear objective . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way again . she be speak incredibly powerfully and passionately about the role of Skills England , and I share her commitment and excitement about it , but as she know , this ifate Bill abolishe ifate rather than create Skills England . there be those who believe that put Skills England on a statutory footing as an independent body , rather than keep it in the Department , might have be the way to go . will she explain to the House why she have take this approach , and why she believe that Skills England will , as a body in her Department rather than as a truly independent body , have the strength and respect in the sector that it so badly need ? I will set out the reason primarily and then say a little about the way in which Skills England will operate . first , the need to do it in this way be one of time and speed . as I hope I have set out to the House , the need to act be urgent ; we must get on with this and ensure that we tackle the chronic skill shortage right across our country — there be no time to waste . the Government be determined to drive opportunity and growth in every corner of our country . further delay to that will hold back not just growth but opportunity . when it come to the function of Skills England and how it will operate , it will be an executive agency of the Department for Education . it will have the independence that it need to perform its role effectively , with a robust governance and accountability framework and a chair who bring an enormous wealth of experience from business . a strong , independent board , chair by Phil Smith , will balance operational independence with proximity to Government . it will operate in the same way that many executive agency , such as the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency , already operate . as with any new arm ' s length body , in the next 18 to 24 month we will review how Skills England be function , to consider whether it still exist within the good model . [ interruption . ] that be entirely in keep with the way in which arm ' s length body be routinely consider by the Government . I be surprised that conservative Members be surprised , because that be simply how these thing be do , as they know all too well . if they be content to allow drift and delay , they will hold back opportunity for people across our country ; they will hold back the demand that business rightly lie at our door to get on with the job of create the condition in which they can deliver more apprenticeship start , more opportunity , and more chance to learn and upskill . Skills England will work closely with the Industrial Strategy Council , which will monitor the strategy ' s progress against clear objective . the Skills England chair will have a permanent seat on the council — that really matter . by 2035 there will be at least 1 . 4 million new job . our clean energy mission will rely on talented people with the expertise to power our green future . the pace of technological change , include artificial intelligence , be accelerate , and it bring huge opportunity for our economy . however , to seize those opportunity , firm need a ready supply of people with the right skill . we will nurture home - grow talent in all region so that people have the skill they need for those exciting job of the future . skill England will work with the Migration Advisory Committee to ensure that training in England account for the overall need of the labour market and to reduce the reliance of some sector on labour from abroad . I thank the Secretary of State for be so generous with her time . I absolutely support her ambition of ensure that we have the skill for the job of the future . will she say a little about how Skills England will support foundational manufacturing industry , such as ceramic in Stoke - on - Trent , which will not be prioritise in the industrial strategy but still have a lot to offer our economy and be cry out for skill from local people ? if we can get that right , we can grow our own economy , and that be true levelling up in my opinion . my hon . friend always champion the ceramics industry in his constituency . we have have many conversation on that topic , and he be absolutely right to put it into context . skill England will benefit the ceramics industry and his constituent because we will be able to move much more rapidly to make change to qualification and training requirement in order to meet the need of employer , with further flexibility , short course , and foundation apprenticeship for young people for the chance to get on , include in long - stand traditional industry as well as in future job and opportunity . the Bill be a crucial leap forward , bring the different part of the skill system close together , and it pave the way for Skills England . it transfer the current function of the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education to the Secretary of State , not to exercise power from Westminster , but to empower the expert leadership of Skills England to drive the change we need . bring those function to Skills England will place the content and design of technical qualification at the heart of our skill system , where they belong . Skills England have exist in shadow form since Labour take power and begin the work of change in July . it set out its first " state of the nation " report into skill gap in our economy in September . skill England be move ahead . the leadership be in place , and by lay the groundwork for a swift transition to Skills England , we be move a step close towards a join - up skill system . at its heart , this Bill be about growth and opportunity — growth for our economy , and opportunity for our people — and there be no time to waste . we need action , not delay . the people of this country need well job , high wage and bright future ; no more vacancy unfille due to a lack of skill , no more chance miss and no more growth lose . we need change now , not change push back to some foggy future , so we be push ahead . this be legislation that build on what have come before but demand more — more cohesion , more dynamism and more ambition . that be how we break down the barrier to opportunity , that be how we fire up the engine of economic growth , and that be how we deliver the future that this country deserve — the bright hope that our good day lie ahead of we . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I rise to speak on a piece of legislation that pose more risk than benefit and prove that there be not parity of esteem for technical and academic qualification within the Government . the Secretary of State be put forward a Bill that allow she personally to write each apprenticeship assessment . just in case you think I be exaggerate , Madam Deputy Speaker , we can see it in the explanatory note . the Bill provide " the option for each standard and apprenticeship assessment plan to be prepare by the Secretary of State " . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you imagine the outcry if this be do with history gcse ? if it be a Conservative Government take these power , there would be howl of outrage from the Labour party . it be extraordinary that the Government be , contrary to the word of the Secretary of State today , cut out employer and give sole discretion to the Secretary of State . they would not allow it with academic qualification ; we must not allow it with vocational one . I acknowledge the statement make in the other place about clarify the situation when the Government envisage the Secretary of State intervene , but the specific criterion for use this power should be on the face of the Bill . at the moment , the Secretary of State have carte blanche to do whatever she like , and we know from the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill that that be a very bad idea . can the Minister confirm that there will be some restriction , and will the Government put those on the face of the Bill ? the Bill be another manifestation of the Department for Education ' s centralisation spree . as with the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , everything must be control by the Secretary of State , and no innovation be allow . the Bill abolish the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education — shorten to ifate — and transfer its function to the Secretary of State , in effect absorb they into the Department for Education . the Government say that they will set up Skills England , but there be no detail on the plan for Skills England in the Bill , or on how the Government ' s propose change to the funding of skill - base qualification will work in practice . simply create a new agency will not address any of the issue that we need to address within the skill system . even put aside my severe doubt about the wisdom of progress down this road in the first place , the very least the Government could provide the House with be some information on Skills England itself in the Bill . the only thing we know from debate in the other place — the Secretary of State have confirm it today — be that Skills England will not be on a statutory footing and therefore will unquestionably be less independent than ifate . can the Secretary of State explain why this be an improvement ? this matter because the framework document publish in the autumn be , at good , vague and , at bad , silent on the role of employer . there be some statement in the section on aim say that employer will be engage in the preparation of occupational standard , but it do not say how . do the Secretary of State think that she know well than employer ? I urge she to explain why employer be so much less visible in the framework document , or to agree to amend the Bill . reduce the role of employer will harm the apprenticeship system . the change will also create unnecessary turmoil in the skill system . a cross - party amendment be pass in the other place to try to minimise the impact that this uncertain upheaval will have . the amendment will delay the provision of the Bill to ensure that Skills England have time to set up before take on its role and to ensure that the administrative duty do not get in the way of provide quality apprenticeship . that seem the bare minimum of what we would expect , and I hope the Government will not oppose that amendment , because to do so would be absurd . the skill system need a stable landscape , but the Bill present real risk with no obvious benefit : risk that the Government will erode standard in our skill system by remove the relationship with the employer and replace it with diktat from the Secretary of State ; risk of poor leadership by replace a good organisation , which be like by employer and apprentice , with an unknown and undefined body . I be listen carefully to the right hon . Lady . she seem to be evangelise the role of ifate , but I have hear far strong criticism of it than she appear to make . be her position that ifate do not have many fault and should carry on the way it be , or do she think that the organisation ' s remit have grow and be vague , and most employer feel that it be a block to get the standard they need , rather than the vehicle for that , as she seem to suggest ? I have huge respect for the hon . Gentleman and think his early question be spot on . there be much that need to be improve , but that be much less vague than Skills England , which be what we have in front of we at the moment . there be risk of distraction , with the time and cost involve in create a new agency in the Department for Education . if the government be serious about progress quickly with the urgent strategic issue that I accept be need in skill reform , the most effective step would be to build on the success of ifate , rather than dismantle it . instead , the Bill threaten to undo much of the progress make under successive conservative Governments in build a world - class apprenticeship and technical education system . it be fiddle for no reason , change for no purpose and , as be so often the case with this Government , the opposite of what be require . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . the further education and skill sector be of strategic importance , and equip our workforce with the skill that employer need be critical for economic growth . ensure that there be opportunity for young people and those mid - career to access high - quality training in order to enhance and develop their skill be vital for break down the barrier to opportunity that hold back far too many people . for far too long , the further education and skill sector have be the Cinderella service of our education system , patronise with lip service about how important it be , always regard as second good , and never allocate the level of funding need to really deliver . despite the fact that at the very peak only around one third of 18 - year - old go on to university , our school system be overwhelmingly orientate to communicate to young people that university be the option they should all aim for , rather than support a plurality of education option post - 18 , all of which can equip they well for a successful career . that have create a postcode lottery in which the high - quality further education and training opportunity that be available in some part of the country be not available everywhere . the hon . Lady be make a profoundly important point that reinforce what I say early about career advice and guidance . when I be skill Minister , I introduce a statutory duty on provider to make available free and independent advice . the problem be that that be often do by mean of the internet . school will refer student to the internet , rather than bring people such as independent adviser into the school to guide they . she be right that the good solution to the problem she set out be exactly that kind of involvement from career adviser with student . I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . I be delighted recently to visit a school in my constituency , and a career fair that give young people the opportunity to meet many employer and provider of further education face to face , in order to give real meaning and reality to what such opportunity might provide in the future . it be important that young people have those opportunity . recently , I be delighted to visit the Lambeth college campus in Vauxhall , which be part of the Southbank University group , with my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . we meet young people engage in cut - edge training in robotic , renewable energy installation , dental technology and game design and production . they be be equip with valuable skill to help they to access high - quality job , with the possibility , in some case , of progress their training all the way to degree level at the university . the college be a good example of a strategic vision be apply to skill at a local level to ensure that employer ' need be be meet , and that the good possible opportunity be make available to young people , but not everywhere can benefit from such a strategic approach at present . I therefore welcome the Bill , which will formally establish Skills England . it be encouraging that this Government be give further education and skill the strategic prominence they need , and seek to establish an effective national agency to deliver a step change in the strategy that underpin our approach to skill and the quality and availability of training opportunity . Skills England have be operate in shadow form within the Department for Education since July last year . follow the passage of the Bill , it will become an executive agency . this important Bill will work to underpin many of the strategic aim of the Government , include the delivery of economic growth , the skill to provide the additional 1 . 5 million home that need to be build , and the skill to drive the urgently need transition of our energy sector to achieve net zero , and the much - need improvement in our national health service and in social care . as the first Skills England report highlight , we currently have a fragmented and confusing landscape that let down learner , frustrate business and hold back growth . the current system that the Government inherit have be badly neglect and urgent action be need to deliver the change and scale of ambition require . while I welcome the Bill , there be a number of issue on which I would be grateful for further clarity from the Government . the Bill do not provide a statutory underpinning for Skills England , mean that the Secretary of State and future Secretaries of State can make fundamental change to Skills England or close it down without the consent of Parliament . that call into question the ability of Skills England to deliver a stable long - term underpinning of the skill system over a period of time . I understand the Government ' s urgency , but it be important that in deliver this change Skills England be place on a really solid foundation . in order to be effective in deliver the skill system that our country need , Skills England will need to have leverage with a number of different Government Departments beyond the Department for Education , yet the chief executive of Skills England be the equivalent of a director - level post in the civil service , not a director general , call into question the extent to which appropriately senior people from across Government will be require to act on its recommendation and work in effective partnership . as the Bill progress , the Government should consider the seniority of the ceo in that light . partnership work with key stakeholder outside Government , include training provider , trade union , employer and devolve authority will also be critical to the success of Skills England , but none of that be write into the Bill , and the way in which Skills England will be hold accountable for effective partnership work be unclear . will the Secretary of State take further action to address that ? the impact statement for the Bill state that there may be a drop in apprenticeship start while the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ' s function be transfer to the Secretary of State and then to Skills England , with a disproportionate impact on adult apprenticeship , disadvantaged learner and disadvantaged region . will the Secretary of State explain what step she will take to minimise and mitigate that potential short - term drop ? the success of Skills England will depend on a series of wide factor that should be consider at the point at which it be be establish . there be a significant issue with the funding of sixth form college , particularly around inequity in pay between teacher in school and college , exacerbate by the failure to extend the recent pay increase to teacher to those employ by college . it can not be right that a teacher in a college can be pay less than a teacher in a school sixth form for teach exactly the same subject . to drive parity of esteem between pupil follow an academic route and those follow a vocational route , it be important that sixth form college be able to both recruit and retain teacher . that mean address the low pay in sixth form college compare with school , and the gap between teacher salary and the salary that teacher could receive in industry . it be a real problem for college seek to recruit teacher of vocational subject that those who have the skill to teach trade can often earn far more by practise that trade in the private sector . there be currently very little obligation on industry to release staff to deliver vocational education or to help to secure the pipeline of vocational teacher , include through post - retirement option . the Government should give further consideration to the recruitment and retention of high - quality teacher in the further education sector . for some student in the further education sector , their school day have not be the happy day of their life . college or an apprenticeship should be the place where they start to find the thing that they can excel at and where their confidence be build because they start to succeed . the importance of a functional level of English and math be universally accept and understand , so something be badly wrong in our education system when 38 % of student do not achieve a grade 3 or above in English and math at GCSE . the cycle of failure end up continue in the fe sector , which require they to resit again and again . there must be a well way to ensure the functional skill in these subject that employer need within further education , while enable young people genuinely to succeed , build their confidence and thrive . finally , I will raise the issue of the huge differential in the information provide to sixth form student as they decide on their next step after school or college — a point make by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) early in the debate . when meet with skill provider and school leader in my constituency recently , many participant highlight how a move to university be often present as a natural , secure step , with multiple option and a well - trodden path through the UCAS process , while vocational option , include apprenticeship and degree apprenticeship , be not present with the same clarity or coherence , or even within the same timeframe . that make it hard for teacher to advise their student and for parent to have confidence in pathway that may appear less predictable and secure . if we want to see true parity of esteem between academic and vocational route , that need to change , and I hope that it will be a priority for the newly establish Skills England . the Education Committee recognise the strategic importance of further education and skill , and we have recently launch a substantial inquiry that aim to understand how the further education system can well equip young people with skill and qualification for a range of sector experience labour shortage while open up a wide range of opportunity to young people and mid - career switcher . we will make our recommendation to the Government in due course , and we look forward to play our part in scrutinise the work of Skills England . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill because , while acknowledge the importance of reform the delivery of skill and technical education , it fail to establish Skills England as a statutory independent body ; because it centralise decision - make power in the hand of the Secretary of State ; because it provide for the abolition of the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education without ensure a legally define replacement ; and because it lack provision to ensure that Skills England be directly accountable to Parliament . " the Government be right that our skill system need reform . the Liberal Democrats agree with the Secretary of State that our current fragmented and confusing skill landscape let down learner , frustrate business and hold back growth , as she make clear in her foreword to Skills England ' s first report in the autumn . I and my hon . friend on the liberal Democrat Benches share the ambition to build a high - skill , high - productivity workforce that can meet our economy ' s need , and reform be essential for that ambition to be realise . like many in the sector , we be encourage to hear the Government prioritise that last July in the King ' s Speech , with the statement : " my government will establish Skills England which will have a new partnership with employer at its heart " , but the Bill before we do not establish Skills England at all ; it simply abolish the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education and transfer the function directly to the Secretary of State . we need a strong , independent skill body with proper parliamentary oversight and genuine employer engagement , but this Bill deliver a centralisation of power in the hand of Ministers . there be example of body that combine independence and strong democratic accountability for the most critical policy area . the Office for Budget Responsibility have statutory independence while be directly accountable to Parliament through the Treasury Committee . its leadership be subject to parliamentary approval , its report must be lay before Parliament and it have clear statutory duty to ensure transparency . the Climate Change Committee similarly have a clear statutory basis that ensure it can provide independent advice while be properly scrutinise by Parliament , yet the framework propose for Skills England — or at least the draft framework for illustrative purpose , which be all that we have see so far — fall far short of those model . despite promise about work across Government , its governance structure be heavily Department for Education - centric . there be no formal mechanism for co - ordination with other key Departments ; there be no cross - departmental board representation ; and there be no clear structure for align with body such as the Migration Advisory Committee , just aspiration . be we to assume that the Government think that skill policy be not so critical to their mission that it warrant a strong framework than the one we have see ? this matter profoundly when we consider the scale of cross - Government co - ordination require . Skills England must work with the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council on future workforce need ; with the Migration Advisory Committee on reduce reliance on overseas worker ; with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero on green skill ; with the Department for Work and Pensions on employment programme ; with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology on priority sector ; and with the Department of Health and Social Care on workforce planning . particularly in light of recent development , Skills England must also support the Government ' s strategy for defence and the critical industry and skill that we will need for our defence . as propose , though , it will lack even director general status , mean that it will struggle to drive the co - ordination of skill that the system so desperately need . the hon . Gentleman be make a powerful case for the independence of Skills England . he will know that Government Departments resist independence like most people resist disease , but his point be important because to get the kind of lateral action he describe in respect of the nuclear industry or other industry , it will be necessary for the body create to have a reach that Government Departments do not tend to have . I agree . that cross - departmental and cross - industry working be a critical reason for the need for a truly independent body . the implication for standard development be also concern . where we have have employer - lead trailblazer group set standard , the Secretary of State can now bypass employer entirely . in limited circumstance and for minor change , that will have the benefit of speed up the review process , which have be frustrating for employer . there be , however , no safeguard to prevent ministerial control become the default approach . instead of give business a structural role , maximise responsiveness , the Bill make engagement merely consultative . that speak to a broad point : Skills England ' s credibility with employer will be key if those employer be to buy into the Government ' s skill vision for the country . have the Secretary of State not at least consider the possibility that the propose structure , whereby programme can be drive at her whim or those of her successor , undermine that much - need credibility from the start ? the Government ' s own impact assessment worry that there will be a " slowdown in the growth rate of new apprenticeship and technical education course due to potential delay in the approval process " cause by this new approach , and it reveal who will pay the price . it be adult learner , who make up 48 % of apprentice and often face the great barrier to retraining ; learner from our most deprived community , whose achievement rate be already eight percentage point low than those from affluent area ; and learner in region such as the north - east , where apprenticeship start be already low and where every reduction in opportunity have a disproportionate effect . I see that the hon . Gentleman have receive the briefing from the Association of Employment and Learning Providers . he appear to be read it virtually word for word ; I do not know whether he contribute anything to the speech , but it have be very interesting to hear what he have say . with the Bill have be through the House of Lords , the hon . Gentleman be propose a wreck amendment that would kill it . although I sympathise with some of the point in his amendment , do he not think that with the reassurance that we have hear from the Secretary of State — which can be scrutinise over the course of this Bill ' s progress — we can at least get Skills England set up at speed , so that it can take on the shape he be suggest in future ? the hon . Gentleman ' s propose approach would cancel all this reform . it would go right back to square one and stop reform dead in its track . I have look beyond the aelp briefing , thank you very much . this be a critical area of Government policy , and it be important to get it right from the start . that be just a difference of approach . as my noble friend Baroness Garden say in the other place , this look like an innocuous little Bill , but there be so much more to it than meet the eye . it represent a fundamental shift away from employer leadership in our skill system towards ministerial whim , a shift away from statutory independence towards departmental convenience , and a shift away from proper parliamentary accountability towards rule by regulation . the Government may argue that this be just an enable Bill to pave the way for Skills England , but that be precisely the problem . it enable the wrong thing — it enable centralisation when we need independence , it enable ministerial control when we need employer leadership , and it enable opacity when we need accountability . the hon . Member and I share a county , and he will be aware that in a place such as mine , we have see the decimation of level 2 and 3 apprenticeship . do he not recognise that the big concern I hear from employer be that the current system be centralise and let down working - class family in seat like mine ? what they want be Skills England . no employer have be to see I to speak against Skills England , but many have be to speak to I against the current system , because it do not give we flexibility . what might be all right for academic policy in Cambridge will not be all right in Peterborough . we need the change deliver now . I point out that I represent St Neots , which be not Cambridge , and many employer have speak to I about their concern about Skills England and the lack of clarity on its future . we can not support this Bill . that be not because we oppose reform — we desperately need it — but because centralise power in the hand of Ministers , remove proper scrutiny and weaken employer involvement in our skill system will make thing bad , ultimately . learner , employer and our economy deserve well than this overcentralisation of power . will the hon . member give way ? I be go to finish now . learner and employer deserve a properly independent Skills England with the authority and accountability to drive real change . I urge the Government to think again and bring forward legislation that deliver the genuine reform that our skill system need . I speak today in support of this much - need Bill , and I ask Members to do the same . this Bill be not just a piece of legislation , but the foundation for an English skill revolution . it will give our workforce the right tool to boost our economy , fix the skill shortage and provide real opportunity for million across the country . I start off as an apprentice when I leave school at 16 . the academic school do not work for I as far as my education be concern , but the apprenticeship give I opportunity that I could not have otherwise reach . it get I into the world of work . it get I active and away from a desk , and it lead I on to a path that , frankly , the classroom could not provide . for too long — this have already be say today — vocational qualification have be look down on and see as second - rate , but they allow people to reach their full potential in a way that fit in with they . this Bill be a crucial step in deliver the Government ' s manifesto promise to set up Skills England , which will take a smart , join - up approach to ensure our workforce have the skill our economy need . by bring business , training provider , union and local leader together under one roof , we can finally build a system that work for everybody . Skills England will map out where we be fall short , make sure training fit with what business actually need , and oversee the new growth and skill levy , which will replace the exist apprenticeship levy . this mean that business can put money into the right training at the right time , leave both worker and employer with more . let we be honest : we be in a skill crisis . in construction , health and social care , engineering and digital industry , we simply do not have enough train worker , which be why we have to move so speedily . accord to the 2022 employer skill survey , more than a third of job vacancy be a result of people not have the right skill — the skill that we need — and that be not acceptable . we can not allow a lack of training to hold our economy back , which be exactly what be happen at the moment . the Bill will ensure that apprenticeship , t - level and technical qualification match what employer need . whether those involve be young people start out or adult reskille , they will know that they be on the path to a stable , well - pay job . we must not ignore the damage do by those who look down on vocational training . we need to change the way in which we talk about skill , apprenticeship and lifelong learning , because those career be not a back - up plan but a first - class route to success . the Bill represent a move to challenge the idea that the only way to get ahead be through university . it show that we be serious about support technical skill so that no matter what path people choose , they have what they need to thrive in life and in work . I say to member , " ask yourselves this : do you want a skill system that actually work ? do you want to help build a workforce that be properly train , value and pay ? " this Bill be our chance to fix skill training in England . it will give apprenticeship and technical education the attention , funding , and respect that they deserve . it will bring order , clarity and proper co - ordination , element that our system have be lack for too long . in September I visit Corby technical school in my constituency , which be lead by Shona Lomas . I be tell about its approve partner scheme , a lead scheme in the area , which bring in business partner who support child through school , offer work experience and provide apprenticeship . when that school open , it be look down upon . it be talk down . People talk as though the kid who be not bright enough go to that school . that be wrong , because the kid who go to that school be well support , get on with partnership and get on in life through apprenticeship . the CTS scheme have now grow to 119 partner , include local school , college and major local employer , and it have see a rise in awareness and interest since the recent National Apprenticeship Week . opportunity such as those give young people the skill and confidence that they need to get on in life . we have more brilliant apprenticeship scheme throughout my constituency — some of which I visit recently — include those at 7formation , Asda , Carmack Engineering , Weetabix and RS Components , which be rank 82nd in last year ' s list of the top apprenticeship employer in the country . those business be deliver what they can , but the Bill give they the freedom and flexibility to deliver more . most important , it provide the link that will enable we to build the future and the growth that our economy need . these be the kind of opportunity that we can grow and spread through Skills England and the power in the Bill . let we get our system in step with an industrial strategy , join with local economy , to bring the skill revolution that our country so desperately need . we can do that with the Bill . this Bill be important for the future of technical education and apprenticeship in our country , and I accept that the Government ' s intention be to streamline the governance and management of skill . however , I believe that , in its current form , the Bill threaten to centralise the system to such an extent that it may undermine the independence and effectiveness of our skill system . the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education be establish with the clear purpose of ensure that apprenticeship standard and assessment be determine with the input of employer , education provider and industry expert . I fear that by abolish this body in favour of a group of civil servant appoint by the Secretary of State , the Government will make technical education less responsive to the need of the labour market . the Bill remove the requirement to publish regular review of occupational standard and apprenticeship assessment plan . the Government say that remove this duty allow for much great flexibility , but they be do so without ensure that the view of employer , educator and other relevant body will continue to be hear and consider . the Bill grant the Secretary of State power to determine the standard and assessment that will be use to measure progress in technical education . no long will these decision be make by a broad group of stakeholder , include employer and sector specialist . what do all this mean for our workforce , and what do it mean for learner ? it mean that we be at risk of create a system that be more distant , less responsive and potentially less effective . when decision be make by civil servant without the input of those on the ground — those directly impact by these decision — we risk lose touch with the reality of the skill landscape . I be afraid the hon . Member and the shadow Secretary of State speak as if the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education be an unblemished success . between 2018 - 19 and 2023 - 24 , apprenticeship start in England per capita drop by 16 % , so how be it a responsive system ? I think the House would be well serve if Opposition Members acknowledge that . I understand why he be focus on structure , because that be in part what the Bill focus on , but surely we should also be focus on outcome , on which the previous Government be not deliver . the pandemic clearly have something to do with that reduction . I would not say the system be perfect , but I fear that replace it with a committee of civil servant appoint by the Secretary of State be likely to be less successful still . amendment have be make in the other place to address some of these concern . specifically , a one - year delay be add between the establishment of Skills England and the commencement of the Bill , which would allow for a more effective transition and give Skills England a well chance of get up and run . it be crucial that we do not damage the very real progress that be make on technical education under the last government . during the general election , my party pledge to raise the number of people in high - skilled apprenticeship by 100 , 000 per year , represent a 30 % rise . this be to recognise that , for many young people , apprenticeship represent a well way to enter the workplace than some university degree . Bridgwater and Taunton College , base in my constituency , be the UK ' s large provider of apprenticeship , support thousand of learner in achieve their career ambition . with over 120 apprenticeship programme , the college offer exceptional opportunity for individual to gain hand - on experience and develop the skill need for today ' s competitive job market . BTC ' s success be reflect in its recent achievement , such as its register nurse degree apprenticeship , which recruit 53 apprentice in the 2023 - 24 academic year alone . the college ' s commitment to employer engagement and industry - align training be at the heart of its success . it have strong partnership with employer of all size , ensure that its apprenticeship programme meet local and national skill need . while BTC welcome the streamlining of the management of apprenticeship , it be clear that these change must not reduce the quality of education and support provide to apprentice . as it rightly point out , it be crucial that these change do not compromise the wellbeing of student or the high standard of education they have come to expect . I hope that the new framework will continue to uphold these standard and ensure that the need of both student and employer be meet effectively . it be this type of local , industry - focused and employer - engage approach to skill training that we should be foster . in conclusion , while I understand the desire to create a streamlined , more efficient system , the Government must be careful not to sacrifice the effectiveness and independence that have be the hallmark of our apprenticeship and technical education system . this Bill , in its current form , grant perhaps too much power to the Secretary of State with too little accountability . it risk diminish the role of employer and learner , and weaken the check and balance that have serve we well , so I will continue to scrutinise this Bill as it proceed through Parliament . I be pleased to speak on Second reading of this Bill , which I welcome for its focus on overhaul the skill system in England , particularly in relation to apprenticeship and technical education . the creation of the Institute for Apprenticeships in 2017 , with the subsequent addition of oversight for technical education , undoubtedly help to create a system that increasingly include high - quality apprenticeship and increase the accessibility of these pathway to all . however , there be still too many in our country for whom unlock their full potential remain a distant dream , which be fundamental to everything this Government have set out to achieve and to the future of our country . the mission drive this government — the incredible plan for change , the drive to become self - sufficient as a nation on energy , defence and security , the need to increase growth in our economy , and the drive to improve the life of all our citizen — all require a comprehensive plan for improve skill . the basic provision of the Bill will abolish the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education and transfer its function ultimately to Skills England ; there be also propose change to the function undertake by Skills England . I believe these change be important and will help to ensure a more simplified system with build - in flexibility , which will enable the skill system to take account of change circumstance . conservative Members have speak about the power be take up by the Secretary of State and the Department . I think build in accountability be important , so that we know that this Parliament can come back to Ministers and hold they to account on that . all this , I think , will help to ensure that our skill system be truly responsive to the need of user , employer and our economy . this matter be incredibly important to my constituent . Smethwick have a rich industrial heritage , and , while there have be significant change over the year , the need for high - quality skill , education and training remain key . in Smethwick , significantly more people than the national average have no qualification , significantly few have a level 4 qualification , and few than the national average take part in apprenticeship . too often , structural inconsistency hold back our business and our people from flourish . the lack of skill essential for work , the lack of specific skill require by employer in the place they be need and the lack of option available to many for achieve these skill be just some of those issue . the Bill will help to streamline the skill system and ensure it be able to identify gap , respond to change circumstance and provide the skill need for our business to flourish . last week , I meet Robert Powell , the head of resource development at Keltruck Limited , which be the large independently own Scania distributor globally involve in the sale of new and used truck , and be base in my constituency . Keltruck be a significant business , with 461 employee , include 51 apprentice — that be more than 10 % of its employee . I be also inform that pretty much all the senior staff in the organisation have come up through the apprenticeship route — this be a business that really value apprenticeship . many of its apprentice go on to great job in industry , for example , one go on to become chief mechanic at a top Formula 1 racing team . that be something to aspire to , and a story for somebody from Smethwick that be quite inspirational . be more responsive mean listen to business . while Keltruck welcome the recent announcement that English and math qualification will not be a requirement for apprenticeship , it be concern that this requirement still apply to 16 to 18 - year - old begin an apprenticeship . the story that be tell to I be that some of their senior staff would not be in that position if they be require to have an English or math qualification at age 16 or 18 . I hope the Government can therefore look at that too to ensure that all our young people have access to the good quality apprenticeship . in an illustration of the flexibility and freedom that can be bring to bear , I congratulate Richard Parker , the Mayor of the West Midlands , and the West Midlands combine authority on launch a scheme last year to enable big business with an unspent apprenticeship levy to donate that to the West Midlands combine authority rather than return it to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . that have allow the West Midlands combine authority to receive nearly £ 3 million to support 176 small and medium - sized enterprise and 411 apprentice through fully fund apprenticeship . that be an indication of how the freedom bring about by the Bill could be utilise . the two example I have outline show what can be achieve through a skill system that be more flexible and responsive , as well as be focus on excellence . that be incredibly important to my constituency and I therefore have no hesitation in support the Bill . we can not just wish it into be , we can not assume it or assert it , and we can not legislate for it : esteem be in the eye of the esteemer and parity of esteem be earn . in technical and vocational education and training , that require a clear and understandable set of qualification with high standard and specification that people know can not be fiddle because they have be set independently . it also require equip the individual with what they need to know and what they need to be able to do to succeed in a trade , craft or sector because those standard have be set by employer in that trade , craft or sector . those thing be at the heart of the blueprint set out for technical and vocational education in this country , which have be follow for the last number of year . I say the blueprint , but it be also a red print , because it be the vision of Lord Sainsbury , a labour peer . in his landmark report , he set out that we need to reform the system so that we have a streamlined set of qualification with clear path to vocation . his recommendation include : a minimum length of time for apprenticeship , along with a minimum length of time off the job ; for t - level , a minimum length , which be much long than usual for industrial placement ; and standard set by employer . there be also the expansion of the remit of what be then the Institute for Apprenticeships to become the broad Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education , link apprenticeship and t - level . Lord Sainsbury be also absolutely clear that specify standard be not a job for Ministers in the Department for Education . it be a job for employer in the industry that would employ those apprentice . we think that those principle have become a matter of cross - party consensus . I be sorry to say that we be wrong . we have already have from this new Government a rowing back on the streamlining of qualification . they have say that they will have short apprenticeship but still call they apprenticeship . now , in the Bill , they will abolish — not reform or evolve — the body that be independent of Government , which set the standard and ensure the integrity of the system . over 50 year in this country , we have have industrial training board , the Manpower Services Commission , the Training Commission , training and enterprise council — tec — which be different from another TEC , the Technician Education Council , which exist alongside the Business Education Council , or BEC . BEC and TEC would eventually get together to give we the Business and Technology Education Council , or BTEC . there be national training organisation , the Learning and Skills Council , sector skill council , the UK Commission for Employment and Skills and the Skills Funding Agency , or SFA , which would later become the Education and Skills Funding Agency , or ESFA . lately , we have have local skill improvement plan and ifate . now we will have Skills England , which will be the 13th skill agency in 50 year . I say to Ministers that if all it take to solve our skill challenge be a new body , a machinery of Government change , do they not think that one of the previous 12 would have manage that already ? minister , especially those in new government , like to create something new , and , in this case , they think that they have something new that business want , which be a quango — except Skills England be not even a quango . I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for indulge I thus far in talk about all these thing , because none of they be in the Bill . this Bill be not about Skills England . there be , I think , two mention of Skills England in the text of the Bill and I think that they be both insert by the House of Lords . this Bill be about abolish the independent institute that set standard and pass those power not to Skills England but to the Secretary of State . that be what Skills England be . minister be bandy about all these fancy term about agency this , and agency that , but it be part of the Department for Education . when it come to work across Government , I have no reason to believe that this new part of the DFE will be any more equipped to work across Government , let alone across the whole economy , in solve some of these issue . I love the Department for Education deeply , but , honestly , to operate across Government , to exert leverage and to get thing do , I be afraid that the new body have to be in the Treasury or possibly in the Cabinet Office — not in the Education Department , the Business and Trade Department , or some of the other that could have be pick . therefore , far from reflect what business need , what this legislation do be remove the requirement for business to set the standard for what their future employee will learn . follow the vote in the House of Lords , the Government say that they will amend the Bill to be clear that they will still listen to business . I have the amendment here . what it say be that they will be clear about the time when they will listen to business and when they will not , which be not quite the same thing . in any case , if we be to make use of that business voice — if it be really go to mean something — it have to go hand in hand with the independence of the body . as thing stand , even if the DFE be listen to business , it will still be the convenor . there will be no other body . therefore , it will be the Government who be set the standard for t - level and for apprenticeship . I have ask the Minister this question twice already . we would not allow the Department for Education to set the standard for a - level . we would always have that independently do and verify . therefore if we would not let it happen for a - level , how can it be right for t - level ? that be a rhetorical question , but it be a rhetorical question that Ministers should try to answer . Baroness Smith of Malvern set out all the thing that be be do to make Skills England something other than just another unit — a mini department — within the DFE . today , the Secretary of State have set out some of her appointment , which sound like good appointment , to that body . but none of that be in legislation . that be all news to we . news of this set - up and the appointment of these individual have come out since the announcement of Skills England . we be vote over the course of the next few week , as the Bill pass through its stage , on what will be an Act of Parliament . all that Act of Parliament will say be that those power be come to the office of the Secretary of State for Education , and it will be for they to decide in the future how to use they . it may well be that this team of Ministers be in power for 25 to 30 year , or it may not . I encourage all colleague to think about that . when we legislate , we do so not just for the next 12 month , or even for the next four or five year ; we legislate the law of the land , which , all other thing be equal , stay in place . I have some good news . I confidently predict that the Government will hit all their target on the number of young people go through technical vocational education and training and attaining . that be because I think back to the 2000 , and the key target of more child get five or more gcse at grade C or above , include in English and math . year after year they make that happen , even though , as we know subsequently , we be tumble down the international comparison table . about a dozen different ruse make those figure look well every year , and that be achieve even without have final control over the specification and what count as pass or get a particular grade . let we imagine what the Government could achieve now . the Government want a new body — fine . but to give it a chance to succeed for our economy and , crucially , for the young people who this ultimately be about , that body must be independent . I call on Ministers to take the opportunity , as this legislation go through the House , to write that on the face of the Bill . we be encourage by the Secretary of State say early that , in any case , within two year they will review the status of Skills England with a view to perhaps make it a statutorily independent body . I encourage Ministers to take the opportunity in Committee to write that into the legislation . I welcome the Bill ' s commitment to broaden educational opportunity and skill training , which be so urgently need . as one of those young people who undertake my qualification in the early 2000 , I assure the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) that they be rigorous and get I where I be today . area such as South East Cornwall have feel forget and leave behind , cut off from the opportunity of economic growth in other part of the UK . labour understand the link between an individual ' s education and training and the wide economic prosperity of our country . the Bill be an example of how we be rebuild the country from the ground up , focus on our young people . where university or academic route be not the right fit , apprenticeship offer vital , valuable alternative not only for those enrol , but for training provider , local business and the economy . where someone be bear and the circumstance in which they grow up should not limit where they go or what they achieve . this mission - drive Labour Government be make education a priority . it be a far cry from the previous Government , which see apprenticeship collapse , business plead for change and our young people pay the price . in South East Cornwall , local business lead by example . Wildanet , a home - grow company from Liskeard , be do fantastic work to improve digital connectivity across Cornwall . it be invest in more than just cable and infrastructure . it be invest in our local people through training scheme that create meaningful opportunity for local resident and build the skill that directly benefit my community . during National Apprenticeship Week last week , I have the privilege of attend Wildanet ' s apprenticeship graduation ceremony . celebrate the achievement of our young people be a reminder of what be possible when we support they through business such as Wildanet and through the Bill . work in partnership with Truro and Penwith College , Wildanet ' s ground - break apprenticeship scheme be a key part of the company ' s DNA , create new job and training people locally . it be vital that such opportunity in rural community continue to build momentum , and that be what the Bill will deliver . the Bill be a step in the right direction . I want to highlight the brilliant work of Truro and Penwith College , Cornwall ' s only expert apprenticeship provider and one of just five further education college in the UK that have be award this status by the Department for Education . the college ' s staff , many of whom be resident in South East Cornwall , play a crucial role in shape our local workforce and improve opportunity . apprenticeship course align with the Government ' s mission and key industry will help people secure reliable , high - quality employment after complete their training . in Cornwall , where income remain about 20 % below the national average , this investment in skill and future - proof job be essential . by strengthen our apprenticeship system , we can equip the next generation while also support local business such as Wildanet . Cornwall be a drive force in Britain ' s first industrial revolution . with the right foundation , we can once again lead the industry of the future , whether in renewable energy , marine technology or digital infrastructure . the first step be build those foundation . much of this debate have be about the purpose of learn — the Secretary of State begin in that spirit — and I think we can all agree that the purpose of learning be both to deliver personal fulfilment , through the acquisition of understanding and competency , and to fulfil a social purpose by provide for economic need . John Ruskin say : " the first condition of education be be able to put someone to wholesome and meaningful work . " apprenticeship embody — indeed , they epitomise — that purpose . a trainee learn from a mentor a skill that have use in a workplace . the value of apprenticeship be why , when I be shadow Minister for university , further education and skill , and subsequently the Minister in 2010 , I set about revitalise the apprenticeship system . I know that apprenticeship be well understand by employer , be widely recognise by the public and could be attractive to trainee . I will make a point on adult learning , provoke by the excellent contribution by the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) . it be vitally important to understand that in order to skill our workforce and provide it with the necessary competency to meet the Government ' s economic ambition , we really do have to reskill exist worker as well as make practical and vocational education attractive to new entrant to the workplace . simply as a matter of number , if we train more young people but do not retrain the exist workforce , we will never deliver the capacity need to fill the skill gap and deal with the skill shortage that , as have be say repeatedly , inhibit our ability to drive the economy forward . the Bill be about the management and maintenance of standard of apprenticeship . I understand why that matter so much , which be why I set about elevate the practical , the vocational and the technical . I believe that practical , vocational and technical learning be as important as academic accomplishment . it have be a myth perpetuate by the establishment — I be inclined to say " the liberal establishment , " but I do not want to damn the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire , have praise he so nicely — that the only form of prowess that count come through academic learning . that myth have be so pervasive that a former Prime Minister , Tony Blair , set out the extraordinary , bizarre ambition that 50 % of people should go to university . the number of people who go to university should be about their taste , talent , aptitude and ability . we should not set a target and then shoehorn people into a system in order to meet it ; we should allow a system to reflect those aptitude , taste and talent . many people ' s ability rightly lead they not to an academic education but to a practical one , yet we have underpowere and undervalue practical learning for so long in this country , and we continue to do so . deep at the heart of that fault have be the career service . as hon . member have mention , the career advice and guidance that people have get have guide they — even when it do not suit they — into an academic route that have ill - serve they . even though it have land they with immense debt , it have render they unable to get the job that would allow they to pay off those debt readily . so it be really important that we look again at that advice and guidance . as I have mention , when I be the Minister I create a statutory duty on school to offer independent advice and guidance , but I should have insist that it be to be give face to face , with a career adviser visit a career fair or hold personal interview with student to set out the various option available . unfortunately , teacher , who have typically be to university themselves , know that route well , and they be inclined to say to young people , " why don ' t you do what I do , and follow the route that I take ? " they be often less well informed about the practical and vocational route that would lead people to acquire the kind of skill that , as we have all say , be vitally important . I should , at the outset of my remark , have refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , because I be associate with university . indeed , I ought also to say that my background be entirely academic . I study at two university , Nottingham and Cambridge , and I have teach in two as well , so I do not really have any practical skill myself , unlike my dear father , who could turn his hand to almost anything — there be nothing he could not do , practically . I have to send out for a man in the village if I want anything do . so my case be not bear of any personal prejudice . indeed , maybe it be bear of a certain envy of those that can make and do thing in the way that Ruskin describe . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will happily give way . the hon . Lady be now go to test I on my practical incompetence . I have a couple of point to make . do the right hon . member acknowledge the important role that university play in support technical advanced education ? do he also agree that , under the stewardship of the last government , we see a decimation of specialist career guidance in school ? yes , of course I acknowledge that role . it be important to point out that many of the university do great work . I would not want to disparage that work , and the hon . Lady be right to draw the House ' s attention to it . the point I be really make be that , sadly , many people be drive down a pathway that be just not right for they . that be because of the underestimation of the significance of practical accomplishment , both at an intellectual level — the unwillingness to recognise that practical accomplishment be of a high order — and at a practical level in term of the advice that people be often give and may later regret . it be not easy for a young person to know quite what path to take , and if the advice they get skew they towards one route or another , it be fairly likely that they will be ill equipped to make a consider judgment . I be simply make the argument for , at the very least , a degree of equality about the advice we give to people . this Bill be questionable in a number of respect , and in particular , as have be highlight by my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) and other , in the way that it present the future management and control of apprenticeship and the standard associate with they . it be right that employer play a key role in that process , but the Bill be silent on the role of employer . I be not an unbridled admirer of the Institute for Apprenticeships . I do not create it . in my time as Minister , and indeed as shadow Minister , the standard be guarantee by sector skill council . I would have go for a sector - base approach myself . have I stay in office , I would probably have develop that far and emulate the german approach by establish guild . I begin to lay some of the foundation for that as Minister , and I would have go for such an approach rather than where we end up . have say that , what be critical about either that kind of sectoral approach or the apprenticeship institute be abolish by the Bill be the role of employer in ensure that what be teach and test meet a real economic need . we can not detach that economic need from the structure by which we guarantee the quality of apprenticeship . so , there be the issue of quality , and again the Bill be unconvincing in that respect . my right hon . friend draw attention to the fact that if quality be lower , the number can be increase . indeed , the Labour Government prior to 2010 introduce programme - lead apprenticeship , which be teach entirely outside of the workplace . they be still call apprenticeship but be unrelated to any particular employer or sector . that be not the way forward , and any diminution of standard will far undermine the status of practical learning . I simply say to the Minister that if the Secretary of State be go to take back control — to borrow a popular phrase — it be vital that simultaneously we hear more during the passage of the legislation about how standard will be maintain , because at the moment we have few assurance to that effect . I will say a word on number , partly to advertise my own effectiveness in government . when I become the Minister of State for Further Education , Skills and Lifelong Learning , I be able , due to the promotion of apprenticeship , to drive their number to the high level in modern time . I become the Minister in 2010 . by 2011 / 12 , we achieve 521 , 000 apprenticeship . that have never be equal since , and we be now down to about 340 , 000 . to say a word about previous Labour Governments , I inherit 280 , 000 apprenticeship , and the average number of apprenticeship completion from 2000 to 2009 - 10 be less than 100 , 000 a year . as we debate these matter go forward , it be vital that the Government commit to the apprenticeship as a key determiner of their skill policy . the number of apprenticeship and their quality will allow the Government to drive up skill level and , therefore , to meet economic need . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who have be listen attentively to my speech so far . I be worried that I might damn the right hon . gentleman with faint praise because when he cite the number from when he be the Minister , one of the determinant of his success be the involvement of trade union in the sector skill council and the partnership . while we have talk lot about employer , he be an advocate in his party of involve trade union . unfortunately , Ministers after he exclude trade union from that involvement . be he advocate that trade union should be involve in the new system ? I be immensely flatter that the hon . Gentleman have follow my career with such assiduity . he be right : I defend Unionlearn and would continue to do so . trade union can play a vital part in ensure the outcome that the Government say that they seek and that I certainly believe in . indeed , I go on a delegation to Germany — this be a minor digression , Madam Deputy Speaker — to look at their apprenticeship system with employer and trade union , because I know that the combination of trade union and employer be critical to drive the skill agenda . again , it would be useful to hear from the Government what they think about that . how will they engage with the trade union ? because trade union be not mention in the Bill at all , we be leave to wonder what will happen , as my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire say in his excellent speech , when the Secretary of State seize control of apprenticeship from the current structure . there be a number of other question to be put . the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) make a very good point about sme . one challenge when I be a Minister , and for subsequent Ministers and this Government , be in engage more sme . I be not sure that we be successful in that . I launch a review of how we might do that ; it be typically by make the system regulatory and try to review some of the paperwork . again , as the Bill move forward , what more will we hear about how to engage more sme ? if we say to someone in my constituency that there be really good engineering apprenticeship in Derby , which I be tell be in the same part of the country — or in the same region at least , whatever that mean — we might as well be say that there be apprenticeship on Mars , because they will not be able to get to Derby to study . we really need the spread of apprenticeship accessibility , which SME involvement provide . it be the only way of create the reach that be necessary to engage more young people and adult learner in acquire those skill . I have one or two further question , with which I hope the Minister can deal . I have already speak about employer . on the status of the new body , be it the Government ' s intention , as the Secretary of State imply — but no more than that — for it to become a non - departmental body in the end , or will it always be an in - house body ? anyone who have be close to government will know the significance of those two option . it need at the very least to be a non - departmental body if it be to have the necessary freedom and independence to respond to employer need and change economic circumstance . the Secretary of State hint that that might be the direction of travel , but we do need to know more when the Minister sum up . conservative Members be make quite the noise about ifate ' s independence , but I remind the House that this be a precedented move . the Conservative Government establish the Standards and Testing Agency , which be currently the Executive agency and be formerly a non - departmental body . that be exactly the same status as ifate , which perform very similar function for many other kind of qualification and test . why be it okay for the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government to do that in 2011 ? it seem that the Conservatives be more focused on the process point — a process similar to that undertake by their government — and not on the outcome that will deliver for working - class kid interest in learn a trade . as I say , I be not an unbridled advocate of the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education , which the Bill abolishe . I do not set it up during my stewardship . as I have already describe , I would have prefer a different , guild - base model . guild would , by their nature , have be independent from Government . if we look at the german model , the guild be sovereign , and they be closely tie , by the way , to the trade union of the particular sector for which they be responsible . I be simply say to the Government , " here be the chance to do something well . " one learn from experience and one learn from government experience , to be honest and straightforward about that . certainly , there be the issue of standard . how will standard be determine and deliver ? will that be do by an independent body or a series of independent body , perhaps in different part of the business community , or will it be do directly by the Department ? what about the figure in the impact assessment , which say that there would be a reduction in the number of apprenticeship ? we be already at a pretty pitifully low level . as I describe early , the number of apprenticeship start in 2023 - 34 stand at 340 , 000 . we can do much well than that , but the Government have certainly suggest in their impact assessment that they expect that number to fall , at least in the interim . by how much do we expect it to fall — 5 % , 10 % , or 25 % ? we really need to know a little more about that . the Secretary of State speak about , as the labour manifesto detail , work with the Migration Advisory Committee and other . can we hear a little more about the detail of that ? certainly , it will be require before we vote on Third Reading , because it be inconceivable that the Government would not want to be more straightforward about how those structural link will work and what role those other body will play in help the Government to deliver their objective . practical accomplishment be something dear to my heart . William Morris — rarely quote in this House except by I , which be a sad indictment of the modern Labour party — say : " a man at work , make something which he feel will exist because he be work at it and will it , be exercise the energy of his mind and soul as well as of his body . " Morris understand what I know many , from their contribution to this debate , understand too : that it be time to again elevate the practical . this be , of course , about our ambition for the economy , but it be also about the people who acquire those skill — the way their life be change because their life chance be change . I start by speak about John Ruskin and his view of these thing . Ruskin say : " the high reward for a person ' s toil be not what they get for it , but what they become by it . " yes , this be about the economy , but it be also about the difference we make to individual who , through gain new skill , grow and develop and become proud of what they can do for themselves , their family , their community and their nation . rise — I have not be plan to introduce a formal time limit , but member might reflect on how many be still stand and perhaps restrain themselves to five minute or so . in rise to support the Bill , I want to say , without heap too much praise on the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , that it be a pleasure to follow he and many of the comment he make . like he , I have arrive at this place through the academic route , and perhaps precisely because of that , I , like he , be incredibly aware of the value of the vocational , practical and apprenticeship route . it be in that value that the power of what the Bill be seek to achieve lie , and I hope to return to that point . I thank the Secretary of State , who be no long in her place , for bring forward the Bill , because seven month ago this country vote for change , and what we see today be another building block of that very necessary change . on a recent visit to Southampton college ' s marine skill centre in my constituency for National Apprenticeship Week last week , when it seem we be all busy make visit , I meet some apprentice learn a whole range of skill , from engineering to electronic , to carpentry and yacht make . it be truly impressive , mostly because I would be entirely useless at all those skill . it remind I that invest in apprenticeship be one of the most effective way that we can equip the next generation with the skill they need . I be pleased to see that , with this Bill , the Government be take action to ensure we get the right framework in place to shape our apprenticeship system . what apprentice want and what employer need be a system that offer route into those meaningful , secure job , full of the dignity of work , that will bring they success as well as grow the economy . I be not particularly obsessive about the structure of thing or the way in which Government Departments organise themselves to implement policy . like most people , I want what work , and I want what work well . the truth be that what we have at the moment , however much Opposition member try to dress it up , be simply not work for too many people . I be pleased that the focus of the Bill be on how we create an agency that will reduce the number of hoop to jump through and will , as my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) say , focus on outcome , what happen at the end of these training course , and opportunity . which hoop be the hon . Gentleman look forward to the removal of ? I think the good people to answer that would be the employer who , time and again , have be tell we — and , I be pretty sure , tell the right hon . Gentleman and his colleague — about the pure bureaucracy and complexity of the system that have be set up . they be the good advocate of the need for change . by set up Skills England we can give apprenticeship the flexibility and durability that we need , and that those training will need . importantly , we can take the interest of employer and young people into account . if the year since 2010 have teach we anything , it be that poor policy have consequence . sadly , the ifate structure set up by the previous Tory Government have fail to deliver and , alongside a lack of investment , that have leave the UK with stubbornly high number of vacancy due to skill shortage and too many young people who be not in education , employment or training . I would welcome reflection from the Minister on how , at the same time as set out the new framework and strategy for skill development , we can deal specifically with those not in education , employment or training , and whether a strategy specifically on that would be another jigsaw piece in resolve this picture . employer in Southampton Itchen be cry out for new trainee and employee , especially those with crucial , basic digital skill , but even today in this country about 7 . 5 million working - age adult lack those skill . be that the golden Tory legacy that we keep be remind of by member on the Opposition Benches ? all of that be change with the structure that the Bill set up , pave the way for Skills England . that will meet the skill challenge of today and empower all training provider and employer , include the excellent Kiwi Education and the South Coast Institute of Technology , to drive maritime , engineering , hospitality and digital opportunity in and around Southampton . it will also ensure that we reset the prestige of apprentice and the apprenticeship route , and elevate they once again to a place of real value . I associate myself with comment from member on both side of the Chamber about the value of apprenticeship skill . I say that as someone who have pay my bill by be a university lecturer for a number for year , yet throughout my time in politic I have champion apprenticeship route . a piece of paper at the end of something be pretty incidental , to be frank , because its real power be what it empower someone to do and which door it open up . to return to the point make by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings , it be about what skill enable someone to be , and what they become through those skill . that be where the real value and prestige of apprenticeship lie , and that be why we be reset the value of they . if we want growth and a well - train workforce , the Bill be a route to deliver that . with this Bill , and with action that I know Ministers will be take in future , this Labour Government be widen option and break down barrier to opportunity for people in Southampton and beyond . that be why I will be proud to walk through the Lobby and vote for the Bill later today . the Bill be a crucial first step in the reform of the Government ' s skill system . this government be change the narrative around skill . when I be young , apprenticeship be often see as something for working - class kid and a route into traditional trade such as plumbing , bricklaying — like my dad — hairdressing or be an electrician . although those trade remain vital — indeed , our ambitious house building target rely on they — skill today can be about so much more . they be the foundation of our economy , our technological progress and our ability to compete on the global stage . the Bill underpin the Government ' s aim for apprenticeship not to be just for 18 - year - old fresh out of college . in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , many apprentice be over the age of 25 . in fact , the majority of apprenticeship be take up be advanced qualification . those people know what they want to do , may already have year of experience and be look to upskill , retrain and take their career to the next level . we need exactly that kind of dynamic , lifelong learning . we can not just talk about improve skill — we need real , structural reform to make that happen . that be why the Bill be so important . in October last year , the Government carry out a detailed impact assessment , look at how it will affect learner , training provider , business and staff . the conclusion be clear : the Bill be essential to deliver the manifesto commitment to establish Skills England on which I and many of my hon . friend stand . we can not continue to make the same mistake make by last Government by keep the fragmented approach of a slow , inefficient skill system . we do not have time for that . we need a join - up approach that deliver for people who be try to build their future , and for employer who be try to build their business . for that reason , I be concern about amendment 15 table to clause 11 in the other place , which introduce a one - year delay between the establishment of Skills England and the commencement of the Bill . I worry that that will delay the establishment of Skills England , and negatively impact employer , learner and the economy . I hope that the Government can minimise the impact of that amendment in Committee . hon . member will often hear I champion Newcastle and Stafford college , base in my constituency , one of a small number of college nationally to twice achieve an Ofsted outstanding rating in all area , include apprenticeship . it be recently praise for its " strong contribution " to meet local skill need , which be incredibly impactful on our local economy . the Bill will only help to increase that impact . more widely , Skills England will work hand in hand with industry , employee and training provider to ensure we be not just react to skill shortage , but proactively identify they . for too long , we have have a stick - plaster approach to skill — and , let we be honest , to everything else — but that must change . we need to be strategic , focused and ambitious in develop a workforce who be prepare for the future . the Bill recognise those need and confirm the manifesto commitment that I proudly stand on . I be delighted to see it progress , so that people in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village can well access training and , ultimately , well job . I urge all colleague to vote for the Bill . I and all my hon . friend be elect last year on a simple promise : change . it be a promise to rebuild our country , economy , health service and infrastructure , and to lay the foundation for a bright future where we will overcome the challenge of climate change , see the benefit of a green economy and lead the world in new technology . it will be a future of prosperity and opportunity for all . all of that — every mission the Government have set out — depend on a skilled workforce . I have recently see the diversity of apprenticeship in my local area , from the National Horseracing College in Rossington , to the SSE business in Keadby , to Jack who cut my hair , who I be sure hon . member will agree be supremely talented — a phenomenon . I just ruin his career , I think — sorry , Jack ! everything this Government have promise can be create only by have the right people , with the right skill , in the right place , at the right time . whether they be in the NHS , energy , house building or security , apprenticeship have be part of the fabric of british society for hundred of year . they have make we the country that we be today . in the past , modern apprenticeship be meet with great enthusiasm by both leader and business . they represent a different way of learn and have great promise , but in recent year that promise have be unfulfilled . both apprenticeship start and , crucially , apprenticeship completion have fall off dramatically . the current system be not work for learner , employer or our country . we need a targeted and strategic system that work for everyone . the system must work with local leader and business to be relevant to the skill gap that be hold our economy back . we need partnership , but most importantly we need a system that inspire and empower our teen and young people . both before and since become an MP , I have have the privilege to meet many of the young people in school in my constituency . their talent and ambition be outstanding . so many of they be rare to change the world to tackle the climate crisis , harness artificial intelligence and be part of a bright future . all they need be the opportunity to succeed , and they will make we proud . that be what the Government have promise , and the establishment and progression of Skills England be at the heart of that promise . create Skills England be one of this Government ' s first act , and it be already do important work . this Bill be an important step towards fully empower Skills England , reshape the skill landscape and get our economy grow . this government ' s no . 1 priority be growth and to get the economy work again not just in some place and for some people , but everywhere for everyone — for north and south , urban and rural and all background and ability . the fragmented approach we have see over the last decade have never be so evident in the lack of pipeline for skill that we need right now and in the future . skill and apprenticeship must be at the heart of that strategy . too many industry be hold back from their potential because of the skill shortage we see . so many of the challenge that this country face be root in the skill gap . our housing crisis be build on a huge deficit in skilled construction worker , our hospital and care home can not get the staff they need to do much more than hold together a system on the verge of collapse , and our economic productivity crisis be root in far too many people who miss out on the opportunity to fulfil their potential , so they neither thrive themselves nor contribute to our thrive economy . I have spend my life work with water and the land . blue - green infrastructure be absolutely vital , and new , smart way to work with nature be develop constantly . as we transition to net zero and sustainable development and growth and develop green energy solution , we open up a whole sector of future job . in the come decade , job and the blue - green economy will be as important as factory and coal mine be in the industrial revolution . we must embrace that opportunity now and use Skills England and the apprenticeship system to get our people ready for job in an industry in which we lead the world once again . Britain have never have the big population , the most land or the great supply of natural resource , but we have be able to lead the world for century because of the skill of british people . we lead through technology , innovation and craftsmanship and through our wonderful natural talent . Britain spark the industrial revolution and become the workshop of the world because of the skill of its worker , and that be why I be really happy to support this Bill . I be pleased to see that we have some young people observe we today . before come to this place , I work in research and development , lead a team of talented young engineer who be create and realise new technology to tackle the climate crisis . some of those team member be apprentice , and some have be apprentice early in their career . we face many challenge , not least from a regulatory environment that struggle to move quickly in innovation and in find relevant qualification for new and emerge field . some of those challenge be inherent in do something for the first time , but they be also the result of a UK engineering and industrial sector that have be neglect and , in some place , allow to stagnate by political leader who simply do not get it . I be pleased that this new Government have embrace the value of purposeful , mission - lead goal set alongside agility , partnership and a willingness to act and learn fast . just like our regulatory environment , our education ecosystem , which deliver skill and qualification , need to become more agile and responsive , and this Bill be an early step in that transformation and in revive the symbiosis of academia and industry in our nation . anyone who work in engineering know that there be no employee quite like an apprentice . apprentice embody some of the most valuable skill need in the workplace , such as social competency that fuel teamwork , empathy , excellent communication , share purpose , critical thinking and problem - solve skill build on perseverance , experimentation and pragmatism and a can - do attitude back by hard skill hone in the real world . I have have numerous meeting with our local college in Worcester , and they be champ at the bit to deliver the technical and vocational skill need for the big transformation that our country face in digital , clean energy and public service . they welcome our change to reduce bureaucracy and lift demotivate and burdensome requirement for English and math gcse , as well as the change that we be begin to make regard short placement and funding band . they want we to keep go ; I have be ask whether we could look at industry - specific flexibility around English and math for 16 to 18 - year - old , with requirement integrate into standard . I have also be ask about further review of apprenticeship standard and funding band in a wide range of area , such as hospitality and customer service , and they would like we to keep build on our partnership with the sector , provide clarity about future levy change and level 7 so that they can plan more effectively . I be pleased that this Government be make change that provide the agility and freedom to act quickly and responsively . innovation in our economy will be found on innovation in our ecosystem of education and skill . we can see a creative , industrial and innovative renaissance in the UK , and I believe that apprentice will be in the thick of it , deliver the true power of a thriving economy : skill and passionate people . as such , I urge the Secretary of State and our Ministers in the Department for Education to continue this work at pace , and I would like to express the appetite and ambition that be present in Worcester to play our part in deliver the technical and vocational skill of tomorrow through apprenticeship . the people of Worcester be ready to back the Secretary of State ' s mission and work in partnership with the Government to break down the barrier to opportunity and see our country — and every single person who make it — thrive . it be an honour to follow such a passionate speech about apprenticeship from my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) . I be go to thank the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) for raise John Ruskin and William Morris in the Chamber — I certainly think they should be mention more often — but I will amend my comment to say that it would be nice to have some Opposition Members in the Chamber for this important debate . hey ! it be nice to have some — to have some more would be quite good . whereas we have have William Morris and John Ruskin , some colleague seem to have be get speechwrite advice from Lewis Carroll , because some of the speech from Opposition Members have be through the look glass in their description of the problem and what be happen . we be lose in a debate where people be stick on the function of a body , rather than the purpose we be try to achieve , which be to change and enhance people ' s life . before I continue , I must declare my interest . alongside my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , I be co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on apprenticeship . apprenticeship be my passion in this House and in life , so I certainly believe that the transfer of function and asset from the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education to the new Skills England body be an overwhelmingly positive move . it be a proposal make in our manifesto — another promise make and keep by this Government . the rationale underpin this Bill be simple enough : the scope of the institute be too limited , and it be let too many people down . vitally , Skills England will work with young worker on their learn journey , signpost they through the maze of qualification and apprenticeship opportunity . More than that , it will identify the skill gap in our economy and work with the Industrial Strategy Council and the Migration Advisory Committee to plug those gap . this matter to I , because in Peterborough , we have some of the high level of youth unemployment in the country . apprenticeship start be down , and unemployment be up . it be clear to I that the work of Skills England must be align with the new industrial strategy , something we hear too little about from Opposition Members in their discussion of this issue . it do not matter what structure we have if we do not have industrial purpose , which this Government will bring to our growth mission , but also to our mission to remove barrier and transform life . we must have cross - departmental , cross - agency , join - up work to deliver the skill revolution and take we out of the old silos . when the Minister reply to the debate , I encourage she to detail how the industrial strategy and new Skills England body will work together to create those transformational opportunity . I also invite she to talk about how the growth and skill levy will fit together with Skills England , enable we to deliver on those ambition . our no . 1 mission be economic growth , spread to every part of the UK and build on a diverse base of industry and service . that mission will be hamstrung unless we unleash a skill revolution . the first report of Skills England make that clear , and it show the scale of the challenge . employer investment in training have be in steady decline over the past decade , with training expenditure at its low level since record begin in 2011 . investment per employee be down 19 % in real term . I know from talk to business leader in my constituency that they find the qualification landscape and the institute bewildering . they tell I that skill supply be often mismatch against demand and that there be insufficient way to encourage employer to invest in skill . I know from talk to learner in my constituency that the journey into career be poorly signpost and often block . learner too often lack the essential literacy , numeracy and digital skill they need prior to apprenticeship to get the job they need . in short , we do not have the skilled worker to do the future job that will drive growth . this Bill go a long way to address that by set up the institution and the purpose to get we there . apprenticeship be the golden thread that run through this Government ' s ambition for growth . the new Skills England must recognise the centrality of apprenticeship to that and bring they centre stage into our economy . as so many other in the Chamber have discuss today , the breadth , talent and determination of the apprentice I have meet have be humble , whether that be the butcher ’ apprentice in Newborough , construction apprentice at Laing o ' Rourke build a new Olympia or creative learner at the Fashion Retail Academy . recently , I be delighted to welcome engineering apprentice from Caterpillar in my constituency to talk to we . these apprenticeship will give young people a clear route into career where the nation have skill gap . the new levy we be talk about will fund short apprenticeship , give learner and employer great flexibility . overall , we must elevate the status of apprenticeship in our society and culture . I be not decry our university , but we must end the snobbery that say an apprenticeship be second - good to a degree . we must tackle the outmoded idea that learn and earning be a less option for young people . we do not hear that lazy trope in Sweden or Germany , and we should never hear it here in the UK . my third question to the Minister be : how will Skills England work through this legislation to elevate the role of apprenticeship in our society ? skill and apprenticeship be not only the engine of growth , but the ladder of opportunity . the Minister will have see the excellent briefing on this Bill from the Co - operative Group , of which I be a member , and one of its central challenge be that we should not just be create more apprenticeship , but ensure that Skills England have a responsibility to improve outcome for those from low socioeconomic background , include working - class kid in my constituency . that will ensure that the new body have social mobility bake into it from its inception . that will not only deliver well outcome for those from working - class background , but will encourage Skills England to thoroughly measure the impact . when the Minister respond to the debate , will she talk about how we will measure the impact in city such as mine , as well as the country as a whole ? this be a wonderful bill , and I be pleased to support it . I be pleased to put on record my support to the ministerial team , particularly Baroness Smith of Malvern in the other House , who have be kind with her time and brilliant with this Bill . my drive focus as the MP for Hertford and Stortford be to make our community an even well place to live , work and learn . I be delighted to speak in this debate today , and I have no doubt that the Bill will allow we to harness the talent of our young people through ambitious skill reform that will drive growth and unlock opportunity . our young people in Hertford and Stortford be keen to take advantage of these opportunity , and the confidence that apprenticeship instil in our young people can not be overstate . early this month , I have the pleasure of visit the Hertford regional college ' s Ware campus to mark National Apprenticeship Week . it be great to meet some of its talented hairdressing apprentice and hear how they be start to fill job at small and medium - sized business in our local area and to learn more about HRC ' s apprenticeship offer for my constituent . in our community , we can see how apprenticeship be help young people to find the path that be right for they , develop skill for life and drive the local economy , but for too long , those opportunity have be out of reach for too many young people in our area , leave those for whom traditional education do not work , who want to pursue an apprenticeship or another form of education , to slip through the crack . apprenticeship start crash under the watch of the previous Government . a broken apprenticeship levy let down business and young people alike , and both be now cry out for change . I be pleased that this Government will introduce a new growth and skill levy , enable employer to access a broad range of high quality training offer , provide they with more flexibility and help learner to access opportunity that will improve their life . the Department for Education ' s employer skill survey show that about 36 % of all UK vacancy in 2022 be skill shortage vacancy — a huge increase from 22 % in 2017 , and a clear indicator of the damage do to the economy by the lack of a strong skill offer . this Labour Government will tackle the critical skill shortage that have hamstring our economy , and apprenticeship will power this mission - drive Government and our plan for Change . we know that the skill need for economic growth come from the community up . the Bill will pave the way for Skills England to find and fill skill gap , ensure that our skill and apprenticeship offer can harness the talent of young people in community such as mine and deliver the growth that our country need . it will allow we to build a skill system that empower our young people , cater to their diverse talent , and once again restore skill as a national priority . most important , it will provide the tool for young people in Hertford and Stortford to break down the barrier to opportunity , find the path that be right for they , and reach their full potential . I will proudly vote for it this evening . the Bill constitute a significant step towards streamline and strengthen our technical education and apprenticeship system , and , as someone who work in the apprenticeship sector in different role , I be a big fan . so many of we have see at first hand how apprenticeship transform life — how they build dignity in young people ' s work , and help they to establish fulfilling career . Joy at all this unlocked potential have , however , be continually frustrate by the decline in apprenticeship that we have see over the past decade . this decline must be reverse , and that , surely , be an aim that can unite the House . it be what this Bill be about : deliver the step change in skill that we so desperately need if we be to rebuild our community and our country . my constituent must be able to earn , learn and thrive because of what we do in this place , not in spite of it . in town such as Weston - super - Mare and Worle , technical education and apprenticeship be fundamental to enterprise , prosperity and economic independence for our young people . sadly , however , town like mine have never be able to take full advantage of those benefit , because of red tape and because of the hoop that provider and small and medium - sized enterprise have have to jump through . for too long we have see a fragmented technical education system plague by that red tape and by inefficiency . give the huge responsibility and expectation on this Government to deliver significantly improve life chance for community , we must break down barrier and block to progress everywhere , and we must be bold in the way in which we restructure the state to make it deliver . our employer , our training provider and , most important , our apprentice deserve a system that be responsive , transparent , and align with the need of our economy and our society . the young people of Weston - super - Mare be burst with potential and ambition , but they have often be let down by needless bureaucracy and a lack of the right opportunity and resource — and the right information , advice and guidance — to enable they to develop the skill that be need by today ' s employer . community like mine have be leave behind by successive skill strategy that have overlook the nuance in our local economy , especially when it come to support the need of the sme that provide the overwhelming majority of private sector employment in town such as mine — whether we be talk about Weston - super - Mare association football club , the Ascot Group or our beloved grand pier . this Bill remove bureaucracy , and will make the system work well . it allow the Secretary of State to act swiftly when necessary , to respond to industry ' s need and to deliver the flexibility that be crucial in a job market where skill requirement be constantly evolve and move on at an unprecedented pace . if we be serious about provide high - quality technical education , close the skill gap and develop our workforce , we must structure our institution to achieve those goal . we must also ensure that town up and down the country that sit outside city and , currently , outside combine authority area — such as Weston - super - Mare — be fully consider , be not leave behind in any reform of skill and apprenticeship , and have a seat at the table when it come to skill and growth plan . the Bill be a huge step in the right direction , and I urge all my colleague on both side of the House to support it . for too long , our skill system have not deliver due to policy that simply have not work . business have struggle to recruit the skilled worker they need , young people do not have the opportunity they deserve and investment in training have go backwards . the previous Government talk a good game and introduce measure such as the apprenticeship levy with big promise , but in reality their approach be slow , bureaucratic and fail to deliver . it be worth note , as I say in my intervention on Conservative Members , that I feel their criticism of the Bill today have focus far too much on structure , not outcome , but since they have do that , I think it be worth reiterate this point . the Standards and Testing Agency set the statutory assessment for school pupil , and it develop professional skill test for trainee teacher . it be an executive agency , just as Skills England will be , and it be formally a non - departmental public body , just as ifate be . however , the Standards and Testing Agency be set up in October 2011 , so I be not sure that criticism of structure actually hold any merit ; rather , they be a distraction from the record of the conservative party . on its watch , investment in skill fall and apprenticeship start drop . critical sector be still face chronic skill shortage , and employer up and down the country have be leave navigate a system that just do not work for they . that be why this Bill be so important . it be about fix what be break and make sure that our skill system actually work for worker , business and the wide economy . to celebrate National Apprenticeship Week , I visit Basingstoke College of Technology to talk to its current class of carpentry and joinery apprentice , and to speak to college leader . it be a particular privilege for I because my dad be a carpenter . he leave school at 15 with no qualification , but in the trade that he learn on the job he have skill and pride in his craft . he do not have the opportunity that many young people I meet last week in Basingstoke have , with the fantastic support structure around apprentice today and more that we be go to build , as well as all the brilliant way in which apprenticeship can help turbocharge the career of so many talented and skilled young people . one thing that be make very clear to I from my visit to bcot alone be that it be massively oversubscribed for many of the apprenticeship it offer . that worry I , because it show that too many young people be not get access to the resource they need to learn a trade and be be leave behind by more than a decade of failure to deliver . so I be pleased that this Government , through this Bill , be work hard and fast — with their very first education Bill to be introduce — to cut red tape and give people great opportunity to start apprenticeship . with 1 , 250 apprentice currently train in Basingstoke , 310 just start and 110 have just complete their course , the Labour Government be already make progress , but there be much more to do . I want Basingstoke to be the good place for someone to learn a trade , start a career and build a life for themselves , and I believe this Bill will help to deliver just that , lay the groundwork to establish Skills England and take a step towards a more join - up and responsive approach . Skills England will replace the current fragmented system with one that properly assess national and regional skill need , which will be absolutely crucial if we be to meet the challenge of the future . that will ensure we be train people for the job that actually exist in the place where they be actually need . this be not just about cut red tape ; it be about make sure that our approach to apprenticeship and technical education be fit for the modern economy . for year , the system have be tie up in rigid , outdated rule that make it hard to respond to the fast - change need of industry such as digital , green energy and advanced manufacturing . the change in this Bill will allow for a more flexible , forward - think approach that actually meet the need of employer and worker alike . a big part of that be replace the old apprenticeship levy , which have be too restrictive , with a new growth and skill levy , which will give employer the freedom to invest in a wide range of training opportunity . as other member have say , we must put an end to the snobbery around skill and apprenticeship . for too long , highly skilled and essential trade have not be give the recognition they deserve . too often they have be see as somehow less valuable than the career that require a university degree , despite be just as vital , just as skilled and just as valuable to our economy and society . I be proud that this Government be change that narrative . we need these skill to drive growth , build the home and infrastructure that we need and deliver energy security . we have the opportunity here to fix the mistake of the past and to build something well . I urge colleague to support the Bill , because a strong skill system be not just good for business and the economy , but good for everyone . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on apprenticeship , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) , I welcome the Government ' s focus on this crucial aspect of skill policy . they have inherit a wildly diverse and dysfunctional skill landscape . I would not go so far as to describe what we have as a skill system , which would seem to suggest something far more consider and structure than what currently exist . this Bill be the Government ' s first very small legislative step towards address the skill crisis that be one of our nation ' s big barrier to growth and productivity . it be almost impossible to have a meeting with an employer — private or public sector — without the issue of the UK ' s skill deficit arise . apprenticeship be a crucial but criminally underutilise dimension of provide Britain ' s learner with an opportunity to earn while they learn , and provide our employer with skilled and qualified worker who contribute in the workplace as they develop the skill they will need . indeed , the Government ' s ambitious aspiration for growth will remain purely aspiration if the current failure in our skill approach be not rectify . the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) suggest that the previous Conservative Government ' s record on apprenticeship be world class , but I beg to differ . in discuss apprenticeship , it be worth first identify what be wrong with the current system before consider the extent to which the Bill move we towards resolution of those issue . first , it be estimate that around £ 480 million will be leave unspent in the major employer ' apprenticeship levy pot this year . FE News report in February 2024 that SME apprenticeship start have fall by 49 % since the introduction of the apprenticeship levy , with the cost , rigidity and bureaucracy of the current system all cite as reason why sme do not take on apprentice . level 2 and 3 apprenticeship , in particular , have suffer , with a 53 % reduction since the introduction of the levy , while a grow portion of the levy pot be be spend on degree - level course . degree - level apprenticeship should be a huge social mobility tool , with learner from poor background who might be dissuade from attend university relish the opportunity to secure a degree while work and without accrue debt . however , recent research have show , shockingly , that degree apprenticeship be be sweep up by the wealthy student , with free school meal pupil less likely to get a degree apprenticeship than to get a place at Oxbridge . finally , the completion rate of apprenticeship be worryingly low , at just 54 . 3 % of all student , compare with 97 % of a - level student pass across all subject . this be due to many cause ; the Government have set about address one by remove the need to pass functional math and English in order to complete an apprenticeship for under - 19 . however , there also need to be a much great link between the completion of the apprenticeship and the fitness - to - practise requirement . many learner do not complete the apprenticeship , but not because they have fail — they may well have secure the skill they need to start work , and do not see the apprenticeship as be relevant once the job have be secure . there be , therefore , a great deal for the noble Baroness Smith , in the other place , to sink her tooth into . this Bill be the Skills England Bill that dare not speak its name . by abolish ifate , it lay the groundwork for the creation of Skills England . there be important question for the Government to answer , and I hope that when my hon . friend the Minister respond to the debate , she will be able to enlighten we on a number of they . first , be she concerned that Skills England will have the necessary weight and independence to bring about the scale of change that its own report acknowledge be necessary ? what will the extended scope of Skills England be , beyond the identification of standard and the potential alternative use of the Government ' s new growth and skill levy ? if the Minister be not clear about what shape Skills England will take post ifate , be she concerned about abolish ifate without be clear on what will replace it and where the responsibility for those function will fall ? can she say any more about how the voice of employer will be hear when the power be centralise with the Secretary of State ? there may be huge enthusiasm for the Secretary of State take a more streamlined approach , on occasion , to the process of create new standard , as ifate be see as too cumbersome . however , do she agree that that must be the exception rather than the rule ? how will she ensure that employer ' voice be still hear ? can she also confirm that the power to approve standard will indeed pass to Skills England once that have be create , and can she say any more about the role of Skills England with regard to the growth and skill levy ? I very much welcome Baroness Smith ' s announcement about remove the need for pass math and English for student who be over 19 , but have the Minister do any assessment of the merit of that for student under the age of 19 ? I be interested in understand the argument in favour of that change for over 19 that do not apply to student who be under 19 . I hugely welcome the Government ' s commitment to this area of policy and the positive initial step . I suspect that it will not be news to my hon . friend that I think that far great systemic change be need if we be to deliver the more transformational change that our employer , our learner and , indeed , our nation desperately need . I do not support the amendment but will speak in favour of the Bill . as many have highlight , there be a gap between the skill need by employer and the skill hold by the UK workforce . skill shortage vacancy have be on the rise year after year , and the late datum show that a third of all vacancy be due to skill shortage . it be hold our country back and , therefore , the system need to change . the immediate skill gap need to be address urgently , but just as press be the need to have a single body that consider the skill that our business will need 10 , 20 or 30 year from now , with 1 . 4 million new job predict by 2035 alone . many of those new job will need technical green skill , digital skill and understanding of artificial intelligence . if our government be to achieve the change in this country that so many people vote for — more home , green energy and economic growth that put money back into people ' s pocket — skill be the key ingredient . the importance of apprenticeship and technical qualification to that mission can not be underestimate . indeed , I be immensely proud when the Prime Minister and the Education Secretary visit MidKent College in my constituency before the election to set out their ambition to put vocational education on the same footing as academic university education . if Skills England be to achieve its aim and help we to meet the skill challenge our country face , it must cover all area . I therefore welcome the Bill , which fold ifate into Skills England to enable that integrate approach to support our labour market and economy . as other have mention , the Bill will make Skills England an executive agency of the Department for Education . I be pleased that Ministers amend the Bill in the other place to require the Secretary of State to lay a report before Parliament detail the exercise of function confer on she by the Bill . I understand that will also make clear the function that Skills England will take on and the expect effect of those function . I likewise welcome the commitment to publish detail of the framework that will be use to hold Skills England to account for its delivery and its relationship with employer . the clarity those document will provide be most welcome . I will also take this opportunity briefly to welcome the reform announce by the Government during National Apprenticeship Week . the apprenticeship levy under the former Government , well mean though it be , be too cumbersome and restrictive for too many employer and learner . as a result , apprenticeship start fall off a cliff , and the late datum on apprenticeship completion show a rate of just 55 % in England . I be therefore pleased that the Government have listen to employer and training provider and commit to make the new growth and skill levy , which will replace the apprenticeship levy , simple , more flexible and employer - lead . I note that Skills England will be task with carry out analysis of the broad type of training that will be eligible under the new levy and I look forward to see the outcome of that work , which will be hugely beneficial to employer and apprentice . a common issue with the current apprenticeship scheme in this country , as other have mention , be that it do not work for small and medium - sized enterprise , which do not have large human resource department to help navigate the often complex skill landscape . nowhere be this more apparent than in my local authority area of Medway where 90 % of all business be sme . can the Minister set out how the Government will ensure that the voice of sme will be hear , so that we get an apprenticeship framework that work for all type of business ? that be particularly important if we be to drive growth across all part of the country . I know , for instance , that there be some large business look at how they can provide practical apprenticeship support to sme in their supply chain , so it would be good to know whether the Government be consider how they can well incentivise approach such as this , which will help hugely by " de - risk " apprenticeship for sme . likewise , I know that there be some amazing small training provider . I have a fantastic woman - lead one in my constituency call Umbrella Training . it be equally important that these provider ' experience and need be reflect in the new apprenticeship system . there be always risk associate with change ; that be unavoidable . there be obviously some concern that the transfer of ifate to Skills England may lead to a level of disruption , so it would be helpful if the Minister provide detail of the main risk identify by her Department for the transition and how they will be manage and mitigate . do so would help to provide assurance to those currently undertake apprenticeship and other technical qualification , as well as to employer . it will be particularly important to ensure that the knowledge and expertise of staff at ifate — no doubt build up over many year — be not lose during this process . it will also be helpful for Skills England to set out a number of other issue in due course , such as what change may be propose to the local skill improvement plan framework , and assurance that local area will be able to prioritise sector or industry that be key to drive their local economy that may not feature in the Government ' s industrial strategy , as mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) early in the debate . anything far that the Minister can say on these point at this stage would be welcome . finally , clause 6 remove the requirement to review technical educational qualification at regular interval . instead , the Secretary of State will have the flexibility to focus on review base on need . it would be helpful if , in her response , the Minister outline what step will be take to ensure that the quality and relevance of qualification be maintain under the new framework . before I call the next speaker , may I gently remind member that their speech should be no long than five minute ? like many of my colleague , I find that this year ' s National Apprenticeship Week really bring to life the amazing work be do by business , organisation and student across my constituency . listen to many of the comment from across the House about how we need to improve the culture and perception around technical education , I be minded to reflect on the experience that I have when I be in year 9 and get quite high result in my electronic exam . I have an amazing teacher , Miss Robinson , who ask I one day whether I would consider do a BTEC in engineering . I do not end up follow that technical route , but I do wonder what our productivity would be today if , back then , our culture have promote it more prominently , particularly for people who be very academic . I be really excited at the prospect of the Bill lay the groundwork for the new body , Skills England , to realise our ambitious mission for opportunity and growth . one of the good commitment in this Government ' s manifesto be to link immigration and skill policy in an effort to tackle the UK ' s reliance on international recruitment . indeed , during the general election campaign , I be on a panel with fellow candidate in Lancashire and explain our commitment , and a fellow candidate stand for Reform remark that he actually really like that idea . I will be interested to see whether his colleague agree today . Skills England will work closely with the Migration Advisory Committee and Industrial Strategy Council to develop an evidence - base approach to the labour market , with the committee set to monitor sector where skill shortage be lead to increase in overseas recruitment . importantly , this will mean that there will be a focus on sector reliant on overseas worker to ensure that they be address their failure to invest in skill in the UK . to support british worker as good we can , it be promise to hear that international recruitment will not be the standard choice for employer fill skill shortage . although migration can play a strategic role in support our economy , it must not be utilise as a means to address skill or training shortage in the UK over support british worker here . in general , we be far too familiar with press skill gap negatively affect our economy . some 20 % of our UK workforce may be significantly under - skilled for their job by 2030 , and 1 . 5 million job in England be at risk of at least some of their task be automate in future . there be business and organisation lead the charge in tackle this . in my previous life away from this place , I be privileged to work alongside the Lancashire skill and employment hub and the Lancashire digital skill partnership , which have long be pioneer for develop our skill landscape in this country . I would like to put on record my thank to Michele Lawty - Jones and Kerry Harrison , who lead those service , pilot programme such as the skill bootcamp , which they make such a success of in Lancashire that the previous Government roll they out nationally . their hard work also secure the Lancashire and Cumbria institute of technology , which I be delighted to visit last week at the Preston college base in my constituency . its principal , Simon Nixon , and many student speak to I about the technical training that they receive in health and social care , construction , counselling and engineering . vitally , Preston college collaborate closely with industry expert and business to ensure that its curriculum be up to date and reflect the need of the economy . it be work with around 950 employer who help design the curriculum , support assessment and offer mentoring and industry placement for its iot student . a great example of that be its work with Leyland Trucks , which report a need for electric vehicle training for its apprentice . the college embed a new module into its institute of technology course . a key need that Preston college meet be provide increase adult education opportunity . the upcoming devolution deal in Lancashire will undoubtedly allow organisation to have an increase say in adult education budget , to boost local productivity and foster the right opportunity for the north - west . however , the college be concern about the report 2 % to 3 % reduction in adult skill budget . for college that have little adult work or that have struggle to deliver against contract , that might be less of a problem , but Preston college get around 20 % of its income from adult provision and have be able to over - deliver for the past few year . any reduction apply across the board would hit Preston college ' s delivery , particularly in key area such as construction and English for speaker of other language , and be likely to add to cost pressure already feel . undoubtedly , we be under severe financial pressure at the moment , but we need to be careful that short - term saving do not impact the long - term skill development that we desperately need to lead we to a well financial outlook . I welcome the Minister ' s comment on that . what really blow I away at Preston college be the feel of the place . it feel inspiring , modern and a place to really grow . I hear from student who have have negative experience elsewhere but feel truly at home there . that be what government investment can do for the wellbeing of area in need of growth . that be the opportunity we have with this Bill . BAE Systems be another business operate in my constituency that offer fantastic training and skill opportunity , particularly through apprenticeship . I be move on a recent visit , on which I be delighted to be join by the Minister for Skills , Baroness Smith , by a young person who have try a few time to get a role at BAE Systems . because of the multitude of inclusive route that BAE provide young people to end up on one of its apprenticeship , he eventually find a route that allow his strength and potential to shine , enable he to secure a role . I know from have work in economic development in Lancashire that many local sme have benefit from BAE Systems over - training on its apprenticeship programme , so that there be a supply of apprentice who can flow into the surround SME chain . as many member have note , a big challenge be how we encourage sme to support apprenticeship when they may need only one or two apprentice . the route that BAE go down come from targeted Government funding . I would welcome the Government ' s consider something similar . BAE have the training infrastructure to provide the support much more efficiently than most sme would be able to do themselves . we should maximise our productivity in how we train people by make the most of the successful structure that we already have . I be delighted that almost half of people start apprenticeship in Ribble Valley in the past year be age over 25 , show that people in my constituency be ambitious and commit to lifelong learning . I fully support the Bill and I can not wait to see Skills England establish , to support those look to improve their skill by bring about a more data - drive and join - up skill system for all of we . it be often say that the UK be increasingly a knowledge economy ; a place where our growth and job come both from trading idea and information as well as physical good . this government ' s plan for growth clearly recognise that and play to our strength , which be why we be now the second most attractive country to invest in globally , accord to a recent PWC report . however , it be vital that the benefit be feel equally across our country . area with a proud industrial heritage like my constituency of Mansfield do not get the investment and training programme they need under previous government , and our young people have suffer the consequence of that . many of they face an unenviable choice between stay trap in unstable and low - quality employment or leave their home town to seek opportunity elsewhere in the country . my election in July be a resounding vote for change in Mansfield , and my first mission for the constituency be to fight for a grow economy with good - quality job for everyone . for that reason , I will be pleased to vote for the Bill , which be a major step of progress in the Government ' s reform of the skill and apprenticeship system . apprenticeship be a critical component for high - quality job in Mansfield . on my visit to business around my constituency , I have be fortunate enough to see the great work already be do by some of our employer , work in partnership with West Notts college and Nottingham Trent University . that include : local aerospace and nuclear electronic company Glenair , which recently take on 60 apprentice ; Power Saving Solutions in Warsop ; and Capita in Mansfield , which be do particularly good work to support people with disability to access and sustain employment through apprenticeship . they be provide opportunity not just for school leaver but for those who be retrain and get back into the world of work . we must not underestimate the importance of that for those individual , the local economy or for productivity and growth nationally . we need to be do more to encourage that type of opportunity in my constituency and across the country . I therefore welcome the change that we will vote on today . in particular , the transfer of power from the old Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education to the new Skills England body and the reform of the apprenticeship levy be two measure that will help bring together under one roof the patchwork of scheme and organisation that currently exist and result in a more flexible system that will give our local training pioneer the support they need . Britain need to begin the process of reskille worker . I draw attention to the work that Nottingham Trent be do with West Notts to encourage adult learner , facilitate direct entry into the renewable workforce , which be another great example . I expect the impact to be transformative for Mansfield in the long term . for that reason , I end by invite the Minister to visit my constituency , where she will be able to see for herself the start make in upskille our young people and adult as well as how far these change will go in deliver secure , fulfil , well - pay employment . Mansfield be a place with significant latent potential . I believe that a keen - eyed collaboration between local business , far and high education and the Government will support our formerly neglect area to realise the potential that we have . too many young people be be let down by a skill and training system that do not work for they . for too long , Britain have be a country where technical education have be treat as second class , skill shortage stifle success and talent go untapped . let we be clear : the Conservatives ' legacy have fail our young people and they can not keep use the pandemic as an excuse . between October 2023 and September 2024 , 41 % of people age 16 to 24 be economically inactive in the north - west ; nationally , that number be 11 . 4 % . I would be really interested to hear what Conservative member have to say to young people in the north - west . in the last two year , skill shortage have leave more than a third of UK vacancy unfilled while the number of 16 to 24 - year - old look for work have double . that be over 420 , 000 young people want to work and to contribute to our economy , but , without the right training , they can not get those job that need fill — job that they could thrive in if we have the right skill system . our young people be not lazy . rather , it be the system the Conservatives leave behind that have fail they . visit business in Bolton , I know that employer be desperate for skilled worker and that they recognise skill training and apprenticeship as a way forward . the young apprentice I have meet in Bolton be thrive . they have security , skill and a clear path ahead , and that confidence be transform life and livelihood . that be why be proud that , through this Bill , this Labour Government be establish Skills England . skill be not second class ; they be the backbone of Britain . Skills England will break barrier that have leave entire region such as mine behind . in Bolton , have already see what work . Bolton Lads and Girls Club , part of the outstanding youth charity OnSide , have achieve remarkable success with its On Track initiative . this programme provide one - to - one support for young people who be not in education , employment or training , offer practical help with CV building , interview preparation and visit to business . but more than that , it broaden their horizon , show they the many promising alternative to the traditional university route and pathway that may well suit their skill and ambition . I recently visit Bolton college during National Apprenticeship Week . its apprenticeship programme be another shine example of how investment in skill transform life . from health and early year education to engineering , digital skill and low - carbon construction , Bolton college be equip young people with the expertise that business urgently need . during my visit , it be clear that the apprenticeship levy ' s rigid restriction — allow fund to cover training but not wage — be directly prevent business from hire more apprentice , so I sincerely hope that Skills England will review the levy so that more young people can earn while they learn and employer can fill those critical skill gap . the success of OnSide and Bolton college provide proof of what happen when we invest in skill and opportunity . now we must take those lesson and scale they up nationally . this Bill and Skills England be not just about educational reform ; they be an economic necessity and critical for growth , because Britain can not build , grow or lead without a workforce that be skilled for the future . but let we also be clear about what Skills England be not . it be not another quango , it be not more red tape , and it be not just another Government agency . Skills England be a promise to young people that their future do not have to follow a single path , a promise to business that they will have the workforce that they need to thrive , and a promise to this country that Britain ' s good day be ahead , not behind we . we need more builder , engineer , coder , carer and welder — the people who power this country — and I be proud that this Labour Government be end the snobbery around skill and finally put apprenticeship on an equal footing with academia . I wholeheartedly support this Bill and the opportunity that Skills England will create for my constituent , not least young people . I have be proudly champion the very neglect skill and trade sector since arrive in this place because , unfortunately , one of the most toxic legacy of the previous Government be a crisis in education and training , with overwhelming barrier to opportunity for far too many young people and a real downplaying of practical vocational skill in the eye not only of student but often of their parent and the wide community . this be in stark contrast to what we see across Europe , Australia and the USA . apprenticeship offer young people an alternative pathway to success and one that be not only vital for our community but practical , hand - on and deeply connected to the industry that drive our economy . we must start by ensure that we value all pathway and people if we be to move towards a productive , highly skilled population and achieve our growth target . vocational training be hugely important . however , in 2022 , we have nearly 340 , 000 apprenticeship start , compare with 520 , 000 11 year before that . young people in my city of Portsmouth be not always able to access the well - pay job , despite there be many opportunity on our doorstep in the defence , maritime , space , science and trade sector , to name a few . we must improve and promote vocational pathway by increase the number of apprenticeship available , improve apprenticeship completion rate , increase financial support and increase the flexibility of course . this Bill establish Skills England be the first step to achieve some of the much - need elevation of our skill sector . only a third of apprenticeship be complete . that be a shockingly low statistic , and it could be improve by increase financial support . it be therefore welcome to see the 18 % increase in apprenticeship rate pay from April to help make apprenticeship more attractive . it would be good to see more target support make available to those who have dependant and other financial responsibility . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to look again at the levy and the length of apprenticeship . adopt a modular structure and increase flexibility could significantly boost competition rate by provide a more adaptable learning experience . increase the flexibility of apprenticeship also accommodate diverse learning need and life circumstance , make it easy for apprentice to balance work and training alongside personal and financial commitment . I look forward to Skills England examine those issue in a new chapter for innovative thinking on apprenticeship . in my constituency of Portsmouth North , the City of Portsmouth college be a centre of excellence for apprenticeship training , especially in the area of gas engineering and refrigeration , air conditioning and heat pump engineering . the college play a vital role in equip young people with the skill they need and we need as a city and a country . the college ' s gas assessment centre be now the lead provider of gas assessment training in Portsmouth , Hampshire and West Sussex , ensure that our region remain at the forefront of those essential industry . from skilled trade , such as bricklaying , electrical engineering , carpentry and plastering , to professional career in business administration , accounting and early year education , the range of course reflect the diverse need of our local workforce . crucially , the programme be support by strong partnership with major employer , include BAE , Airbus , Queen Alexandra hospital , the NHS and of course the Royal Navy . the partnership not only ensure that apprentice receive a direct link to potential career , but mean that student can feel the value of training and future opportunity . the success of that approach be evident , and I be particularly proud to mention James Rowland , an apprentice in refrigeration , air conditioning and heat pump engineering who win silver in the WorldSkills UK RACHP competition in December — an incredible achievement that showcase the high calibre of training and people in my city . we must recognise the importance of sustainability in our skill development . early this year , the City of Portsmouth college facilitate access to green skill funding , enable local plumbing and heating business , particularly small and medium - sized enterprise , to train apprentice in sustainability . that be precisely the kind of forward - think initiative that ensure our workforce remain prepared for the challenge of the future , and I be proud that my city be embrace those opportunity and look forward to extend they with Skills England . a Government who be ambitious about growth need to be serious about skill , because without the workforce train to build and insulate the home we need , to install the next generation of electric vehicle charge infrastructure , to deliver excellent health and social care and to deliver high - quality early year education , none of the Government ' s mission be achievable . well skill mean good , often well - pay job . apprenticeship be a driver of social mobility , and I be determined that my constituent feel the benefit of those opportunity . Skills England will have much to do to pull together a fractured skill landscape and deliver real change , but the Bill will enable it to make a solid start . my constituency be home to the excellent further education college Bracknell and Wokingham college , which already do so much to offer young people the chance to deliver the skill of the future in everything from social care to sustainable technology , from pharmaceutical to construction . the college train over 100 electrical installation apprentice , provide they with hand - on training in state - of - the - art electrical installation workshop , which be recently renovate with more than £ 200 , 000 of investment . the facility ensure that learner gain practical experience with the late industry - standard equipment , prepare they for high - demand role in electrical engineering , construction and sustainable technology . last week , I visit the Bracknell Forest skill hub , lead by Nikki Burns , a small business owner with year of experience . the hub be proactively identify with employer where the skill gap be , work with potential and exist employee to address those gap , and team up with education provider , include my local college , to design bespoke course to plug the gap , all back with support from local and national Government . since launch in September , the skill hub have already engage with over 40 business , offer tailor support for over 50 jobseeker , train 300 employee and build two bespoke course . that be a system work as it should , but we need more collaboration , and Skills England will have a huge role to play in identify skill gap at both national and local level , and in ensure that business and Government be talk to each other . business understand the value of good skill and apprenticeship for their workforce . Waitrose , whose head office be in my constituency , be just one example . it currently have 1 , 200 partner on live apprenticeship across 30 scheme . when I visit Waitrose last year to meet some of its apprentice , I see the true range of opportunity available , from people train up to look after Waitrose ' s delivery fleet and maintain its bodywork to apprentice study for a t - level in finance , in partnership with Bracknell and Wokingham college . small - scale scheme also offer route into employment . Waitrose ' s " Building Happier Futures " programme be design to support care - experienced young people — include those who have be in kinship care — into work . when I have speak to Waitrose and other business in my constituency , they have tell I that among the barrier they face to offer more apprenticeship be the inflexibility of the apprenticeship levy and the overly burdensome requirement need to run and recruit to an apprenticeship . that be why the reform to apprenticeship that the Government announce two week ago be so very welcome . they will provide more flexibility for employer and those who want to take up these opportunity , shorten the length of some apprenticeship , and scrap the need for adult apprentice to pass English and math gcse . those be common - sense change back by business . to be successful , Skills England will also need to get a grip on the lengthy time that it take to update framework , to ensure that apprenticeship always remain at the cutting edge . it be also vital that opportunity be genuinely open to all , include those with additional need . datum from the Office for National Statistics show that only 29 % of autistic people be in pay employment — that be not good enough . more targeted support be need at local and national level to ensure that more autistic people can well access apprenticeship and other skill . Bracknell Forest council be currently look at how to address that autism employment gap , particularly through more support into apprenticeship and other form of work experience . Skills England have a huge job ahead of it . our country have too often rely on import skill rather than nurture our own talent , which be not progressive , and too many young people have miss out on valuable opportunity . skill gap be prevent we from build , grow and thriving . Skills England will be at the vanguard of the Government ' s work to fix all that — no small task , but one for which the reward be great . I be proud to be a Derby MP and to represent a city with incredible engineering , manufacturing and technological expertise and skill . we make thing in Derby . yes , we have industrial giant such as Rolls - Royce , Alstom and Toyota , but we also have the brilliant small and medium - sized company in their supply chain and more broadly , from a wide range of industry include rail , defence , nuclear energy , food production , aviation and digital technology . what attract so many business to Derby be our skilled workforce , but I know that even our city feel this country ' s skill shortage . under the previous Government , a third of UK job vacancy be a result of skill shortage , and the uptake of level 4 and 5 technical training in England fall to historically low level . I warmly welcome the Bill , which lay the groundwork for the establishment of Skills England to assess and help to address our skill shortage . large company in Derby have be invest in skill and apprenticeship . the Rolls - Royce nuclear skill academy , for example , offer 200 apprenticeship a year , work with the University of Derby and Derby college . the Toyota academy provide skill not just for its own apprentice but for partner company too . many of our small and medium - sized employer be invest in their future by invest in skill , such as tech company Barron McCann , which I recently visit , and engineering firm Tidyco , which support apprentice but also go into local school to teach young people the metalwork skill they need to make metal toolbox . however , I have meet many business that say that find skilled worker be one of the great challenge they face and that under the last government , they find apprenticeship too difficult and too inflexible to access . we be fortunate in Derby to have Derby College , which be one of the large fe college in the UK , and University Technical College Derby , which both work closely with employer to ensure they be provide the skill need . one of the student tell I that what he love about learn at the utc be that he feel he be learn something real . we have more than 3 , 000 apprentice in Derby , but I know that we need many , many more , and it be not just people start out who need career ; we also need to reskill our workforce and allow those in mid - career to move into new role and new industry . I want to raise skill shortage in a sector close to my heart . last week , my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) and I hold a meeting organise for we by the Rail Forum with the rail sector about skill . I often meet people in rail who talk about the sector as Britain ' s well keep secret , with people sometimes join by accident but stay because of the range of opportunity it offer , from engineering to customer service , project management to catering , digital role , technician and many more . the Rail Delivery Group identify that rail add some £ 98 billion annually to local economy and £ 26 billion in environmental and social benefit , but the National Skills Academy for Rail report that a third of the rail workforce be 50 or over and estimate that some 75 , 000 people will leave the industry by 2030 through retirement or other form of attrition . this year be the 200th anniversary of the modern railway , which we as a country pioneer , and its future be crucial for growth and decarbonisation . I invite the Minister to encourage Skills England to work with the National Skills Academy for Rail and great British Railways , which will have its headquarters in Derby , to address the skill shortage we face in rail . I be really excited that under this government , we be go to have a proper industrial strategy , and it be essential that we have the right skill and the right infrastructure to get the people and the good where they need to be . I echo the call from my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) for Ministers to set out how Skills England will work across department to support our industrial strategy . I urge all member across the House to support this Bill . I look forward to work with Skills England to ensure that we have the skill we need , that we have opportunity for all and that we keep our economy on track . I start with a fundamental point , which be that education do not always have to happen in a classroom . that be essentially what the Bill be about . under the last government , we see a failure to tackle deep - root skill mismatch , a stubbornly high proportion of working - age people lack essential skill and a severe shortage of high technical training . as a result , our workforce struggle to meet the demand of a technology - drive economy , while employer face persistent skill shortage . this Bill be different . it abolish the outdated Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education and transfer its function to Skills England . this be a monumental shift that create a unified , agile and responsive skill system . can the Minister assure we that the Bill will underpin what good government be about — listen to the need of business , worker and learner ; that it will allow more people , young and old , to earn while they learn and develop skill that will serve they well for life ; and that by improve access to these opportunity up and down the country , we will drive growth , reduce youth unemployment and improve life chance for so many people ? my hon . friend be eloquent in set out the skill challenge of the Black Country . my constituency neighbour hers , and locally 40 % of job need level 4 skill , but only 16 % of people have those skill . that be the challenge we face locally . do she agree that Skills England should be set up and base in an area of the country that desperately need a skill upgrade , such as the Black Country ? I absolutely welcome that intervention and support it wholeheartedly . community such as ours have feel and see the decline , and the Government be laser focus on reverse that to unlock talent and opportunity , and to give our resident a well chance to get their future back . in the past few week I have be honour to meet many impressive apprentice , from those at Wolverhampton Homes , who be ensure that resident ’ council housing be safe and well maintain , to Evie and Jake at Collins Aerospace , who be work on the future of flight and defence , as well as apprentice from Jaguar Land Rover , Halfords , BMW , Enterprise Mobility and Caterpillar . we have see the consequence of a fragmented , outdated skill system , but with the Bill we now have a bold new direction that will empower worker , support business and drive economic growth across our country . the Bill will support apprenticeship now and into the future , and I urge the House to support it . I be pleased to speak in support of the Bill , unamended , which I believe be crucial to deliver growth and ensure that we have a highly train workforce that be fit for the future . as some in the Chamber will know , my job before come to this place be teach degree - level apprenticeship in electro - mechanical engineering . I see at first hand the transformative power of apprenticeship in deliver high quality education while provide real world experience . like all apprenticeship , degree - level apprenticeship be a tripartite partnership between apprentice , university and employer — a model that have prove highly effective . our employer frequently report back to we that apprentice be well prepared for their professional role than their counterpart with traditional degree , and degree - level apprenticeship programme have widen participation , attract more student from deprive background , and more student with learn difference who may have struggle within the traditional university system . as a Member of Parliament , I weave my background in education , advanced manufacturing , and apprenticeship into everything I do in this role . I recently visit WEBS Furniture Training , which train apprentice in bespoke furniture manufacturing — a proper , old - school , artisan skill that they can carry with they and make a career from all their life . long Eaton and Ilkeston , the principal town in my constituency , have a long and proud history of furniture manufacturing and lace make respectively . both town be what they be today firmly as product of the industrial revolution , and although the economy have change since the victorian era , bespoke furniture manufacturing , do by highly skilled , irreplaceable artisan , survive . ikea , robot , and giant factory in China can not replicate the product of the hone , learn artistry that remain the backbone of our british manufacturing , and to survive now in this change world , those be the kind of skill that Britain must foster . such skill be also an incredible mean of spur economic growth and resilience outside London and the great south - east , and indeed outside the great city of the north and midland . Ilkeston and Long Eaton be post - industrial town in the east midland , and if we get this right , we can protect and enhance their world - beat lace make and furniture manufacturing industry long into the future . if we be to build the 1 . 5 million home that the Government have promise in the next five year , and hopefully many more long after that , and if we be to build the new town , railway line , reservoir , prison — all the thing that this country have fail to invest in for so long — we will need the electrician , carpenter , joiner , builder , welder and plumber that apprenticeship provider be train across our country . I would like to present a case study about my good friend and colleague , Councillor Harry Atkinson . Harry be one of the many new young councillor elect in Erewash when Labour take control of the borough council in 2023 . next year , he will be Erewash ' s young ever mayor , age 25 . Harry be also a highly skilled engineer . leave school at a time when about half of his cohort be go to university , Harry instead get an apprenticeship at Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station , which loom across the skyline of my constituency . until last autumn , it be the last operational coal - fire power station in Britain . Harry have work at Ratcliffe for nearly a decade . he have become so skilled that he have be promote to managerial level and he be now a key trouble - shooter when thing go wrong . while Ratcliffe be now in its decommissioning phase , Harry can be assure in his future because there be ample demand for the skill he learn in his apprenticeship , both locally and across the country . Harry ' s story represent the power of an apprenticeship — the conversion of hard work into real skill , an assured career and good pay . it be those kind of job that we need to create for our young people . it be on we — this Government — to build a future where this kind of apprenticeship success story be the norm , not the exception , and where an apprenticeship hold every bit as much value as a degree , be every bit as desirable for child and parent , and be every bit as much a cornerstone of our grow economy . I warmly welcome the Bill . it clearly demonstrate the Government ' s ambitious commitment to training and apprenticeship . I will concentrate on the role that Skills England will play in align apprenticeship opportunity with the need of local economy . Scarborough and Whitby be beautiful place to live and to visit , but the level of low - pay employment be not so appealing . accord to the late ONS figure , 26 % of all job in my constituency be pay below the real living wage . on close examination , the figure be even more alarming . for example , some 52 % of part - time job do by woman in my constituency be pay below the real living wage , while that figure for England be 32 % and for Yorkshire and Humber it be 35 % . the disparity between the figure for Scarborough and Whitby and the surround region should give we pause when we refer to local economy , because coastal community can differ markedly from their hinterland . skill England ' s work in assess local need and opportunity must anticipate what those need and opportunity may be in future , as well as now . well - pay job and career be the goal for young people in my constituency . it be a crucial time for the green transition that we need to reach net zero and to create the urgently need skilled job in the renewable sector . Scarborough be one of close harbour to the offshore wind farm site in the North sea , especially Hornsea four , make it a prime location for the transportation of equipment and personnel , as well as for service vessel . the Government rightly see the potential of the creative industry to create growth , but we know that young people from disadvantaged background or those who do not live in metropolitan area be often deny such opportunity . in the past year , the Stephen Joseph Theatre in Scarborough have create two full - time trainee post , with partner at Coventry University . it will deliver a degree course in act and have a programme for young people pursue a career in the perform art . I want we to build on that to provide far more opportunity for talented young people in Scarborough and Whitby to train locally in the creative industry , especially to bridge the skill gap in practical trade , such as lighting , sound and camera operation . as in so many area , construction trainee be urgently need now , and will be in the future . I be excite by the Government ' s support for a new development plan south of Scarborough , in Cayton , that will start as soon as possible and provide 2 , 500 new home . the people build those home and that infrastructure should be train locally as far as possible . I be pleased to tell the House that the construction skill village in Scarborough be already do an incredible job of provide training for construction apprentice . it currently have 140 apprentice on its book , provide training in plastering , carpentry , bricklaying and electrical work . it have also just run its first solar panel installation course . some 60 % of its learner come from an area that be among the most deprived in the country , and a high number have additional educational need , yet the record of its apprentice exceed national outcome . I ask the Minister to confirm that exist centre of excellence can be fund to provide more of what they already do so well . in conclusion , I look forward to a future in which organisation such as the construction skill village be part of the Government ' s plan to boost apprenticeship and build a well kind of local economy . I welcome the introduction of this Bill as a clear indication that we be give apprenticeship the support and recognition they deserve . I start my professional career at a training and enterprise council — a TEC — and , once upon a time , I use to sign off training contract for apprenticeship . it be always a pleasure to speak to young people at the start of their future , so I know at first hand how need the Bill be for the fe sector , employer and young people , and it be incredibly exciting to have this back on the agenda . for the last 14 year , there have simply be no strategic direction . the partnership between Jobcentre Plus , FE college , employer and the workforce have be slowly erode , and it be clear that we need a reset . the one in eight young people currently not in training , education or employment need that reset , and apprenticeship be a part of that agenda . this Bill pave the way for the establishment of Skills England , give it the tool to perform its new role and deliver on our commitment to assess and address the exist skill gap and identify where training can be utilise for new growth . since the apprenticeship levy be first introduce by the Conservatives in 2017 , we have have a decline in the growth of training in all area where we actually need it . the new growth and skill levy be introduce will replace the old system and include a new foundation apprenticeship that give young people a route to career in critical sector , enable they to earn a wage while develop their skill . it will also allow funding for short apprenticeship , give learner and employer great flexibility over their training than under the exist system . I have honestly lose count of the amount of employer who have ask for change to the apprenticeship levy , and , under Labour , we will deliver . we be clear about our strategy and that it must be cross - departmental . we be already open homebuilding skill hub to deliver fast - track training to apprentice so that we can meet our target of 1 . 5 million new home be build . it be clear that Labour have do this before , and we will do it again . More than two decade ago , the regional development agency understand the challenge in their region and fund training for sector where there be skill shortage . I be proud of the very small role I play in set up a construction academy and provide a boost to HGV driver training in partnership with leader in FE , the private sector and local authority , all fund by the East Midlands Development Agency . Stephenson College in my constituency be a key organisation locally that serve my community . it have a strong role as an anchor organisation , and we should not forget that . it have fantastic facility for learn and have create an environment for young people to grow and thrive , but it have not be easy . like so many FE college , it have be put under huge financial pressure in recent year . we have to ensure that our college be financially sustainable in the long term , and I welcome the recent additional funding for the sector while recognise that there be so much more to do . there be also a role for Skills England to support constituency in area that do not yet have devolve power . my constituency of North West Leicestershire do not have a devolution deal , but we have just as much potential to grow as everywhere else , and key engagement with local authority , the chamber of commerce and local employer , as well as the FE and he sector , will be key in deliver that growth . within our approach , we must ensure that we be put a lot of thought into how region can work together , so that if we move across boundary line , we be still meet with the same funding and unconditional support . we will drive that ambition as a Government to meet our target — to go big and well than before , ensure that our legislation have the great impact possible . I look forward to the continue conversation on the shaping of Skills England , enable our young people to develop the skill they need for the future . I call the shadow Minister . I start by pay tribute to the work of Mr Speaker and the Deputy Speakers in drive up the number of apprenticeship in this House . not only be that create brilliant opportunity , but it be set a brilliant example , so I pay tribute to they for the work they be do . we have hear some brilliant speech today , and not just from right hon . and hon . friend on the conservative Benches . we have hear really important question from the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) ; from the chair of the APPG , the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) ; and from the hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) . we also hear a great speech from the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) . we do not always agree with the Liberal Democrats about everything , but a strength of the liberal tradition be suspicion of centralisation , which be what be in front of we today . we have three main concern about this Bill . first , there be good reason why standard setting be put at arm ' s length and close to employer . as we have hear from member across this House and in the Lords , this be centralisation , and alongside the other change that the Government be make , it will risk directly damage the status of these qualification . secondly , the Government be do several thing that will make it less likely that business will take on apprentice , but rather than fix those problem , the Government be reorganise . Skills England will be the 13th skill body in 50 year — it be yet more reorganisation , rather than a focus on the real issue , and from the Secretary of State ' s comment early , it sound as if there might be a further reorganisation later to boot . thirdly , we have real concern that this reorganisation of the machinery of Government will lead to harmful delay in address some of the most important strategic issue that we face . those concern be bear out by the Government ' s own impact assessment . as with the school Bill , this Bill be highly centralise and do not address the real issue . there be multiple thing in the skill system that we need to address , but I be slightly baffle as to why the Government be start by create a new agency within the DFE and abolish ifate . it be worth explain how we get to ifate in the first place . for decade , people say that they want to make apprenticeship more prestigious , and part of the answer be grow high apprenticeship . the number of people on high apprenticeship go up from just over 3 , 000 in 2010 to over 273 , 000 last year — a huge increase — and the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) be absolutely right to talk about how good those degree apprenticeship be . they be great route into good job . indeed , the late datum show that the median first degree graduate earn £ 29 , 900 five year after graduation , whereas a level 4 apprentice earn more — £ 33 , 800 on average . as well as create and boost those high apprenticeship , the other big change be a shift from a framework - base approach to a standard - base approach , and those standard mean a shift to a high quality . they be lead by employer , they have a long duration — at least a year — and they have more off - the - job training and rigorous final assessment . that be much need . in 2015 , an ofsted report find that even though some apprentice have be on the job for more than a year , they be not even aware that they be on an apprenticeship , such be the problem of quality . thing be be fund that do not ultimately benefit young people , but do allow employer to pay a low wage , which be obviously concern . the apprenticeship levy be design to give employer much more ownership of the skill system , and make ifate independent of Government be a big part of that , create a properly employer - lead system . I pay tribute to the work of ifate — the Secretary of State do not thank it for its work , but I will do so . ifate have create and maintain around 690 apprenticeship , support around 750 , 000 people on apprenticeship last year . it create 21 t - level and 174 high technical qualification and enable employer leader to set a strategic direction for school in their sector , and its website be an amazing resource . however , we now see the Government completely reverse the direction of policy . while we lengthen apprenticeship , they have cut the length of an apprenticeship to eight month . while we grow high apprenticeship , they be abolish most level 7 apprenticeship , and by abolish ifate and bring it in - house at the DFE , they be erode independence and employer ownership . why be the Government suddenly move in a reverse direction ? do the hon . Gentleman not see that the Government be do so because this be precisely what business be call for ? I will come on to what business be say in one second . the Government be do two thing that be go to be very bad for apprenticeship number . first , while apprentice be exempt from national insurance , the Budget — particularly its £ 25 billion increase in national insurance contribution — be cut hire and lead to job loss across the board . what employer group be say about that be pretty damning ; be it the Institute of Directors , the Federation of Small Businesses or the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development , they be warn of serious job loss as a result of the Budget . that tax increase , and the damage it be do , be focus on exactly the type of job that apprentice might traditionally get , so apprenticeship be be hit by the backwash from the Budget . secondly , the Government be plan to move funding from apprenticeship to other area . in opposition , Labour talk about allow employer to spend 50 % of their apprenticeship levy fund on other thing . as the election draw near , that commitment seem to be disappear . on 20 November , the Minister say that the commitment to 15 % be " currently be review " , but just week later , on 9 December , the Secretary of State say that the Government be still commit to " 50 % flexibility for employer " . it would be interesting to hear from Ministers whether that 50 % still stand now . give that the levy fund £ 2 . 5 billion of spending , 50 % be a lot of money to potentially move out of apprenticeship . we can argue about whether that be desirable , but all thing be equal , it will certainly cut funding for apprenticeship . we might also be wary that it will undercut the purpose of the levy and have high dead - weight . in fact , the Institute for Fiscal Studies have point out : " in principle , this could help employer to pay for other form of training that they and their employee would find valuable . but the history of these wide training subsidy , such as the former Train to gain programme " — a programme under the last Labour Government — " suggest that the result be often that much of the spending go on training that firm would have provide — and pay for — even without the subsidy . " the apprenticeship levy , whatever its flaw , do at least attempt to address this problem of dead - weight and discourage freeriding by large firm , so that firm that invest in their worker do not lose out to those that do not . since the levy be introduce in 2017 , real - term spend on apprenticeship and work - base training have increase in real term by about a quarter , from £ 2 billion to £ 2 . 5 billion . in a write answer to I , Ministers have confirm that the Department have a forecast for the number of apprenticeship start , but they have also say that they will not publish it . if it be publish , it would surely show that remove possibly half of the funding would lead to a substantial drop in the number of apprenticeship . perhaps that be why we be not allow to see it . those same reason be why the Government be go back to short apprenticeship and away from the high level , reduce quality and cut length to try to offset the hit to number from other Government policy . there be bit of this agenda where we share the same goal . we all want to see more sme offer apprenticeship and more young people get apprenticeship . although on average twice as many people start apprenticeship each year under the last government as under the previous Labour Government , we still want that to be much high . although we be interested in the same question , we have quite different idea for how we address they . part of the Government ' s answer be to abolish the high level of apprenticeship in order to redistribute the money . the level 7 apprenticeship that the Government be axe currently account for just 9 % of apprenticeship spending , but a lot of good thing will potentially be lose by abolish they . I have be contact by firm worry about the abolition of the solicitor apprenticeship , which be a great way into the law for people from less privileged background . one firm worry about that be Bolt Burdon Kemp , which tell I : " this will really impact social mobility into sector like law , accountancy , and consult . the traditional route into law be expensive and therefore without the apprenticeship scheme many would not be able to afford to do so . we also believe it will have a wide detrimental impact on the reputation of apprenticeship . " it have take such a lot of effort to get that route go , and it would be a huge shame to lose it . likewise , level 7 apprenticeship be open up great job and leadership role in the public sector , too . some 56 , 000 people start apprenticeship in the public sector last year . More than half of management apprenticeship at level 7 be in health and education . in fact , they be identify as have a key role in the NHS ' s own long - term workforce plan . public service will lose out , as will ambitious apprentice . because level 7 apprenticeship be a small part of funding , I be worried that the Government will now go after level 6 apprenticeship , which be a much big share of spending . a lot of employer be worried about that , too . [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State sigh as I say that . presumably when the Minister get to her foot , she will promise that they will not do to level 6 what they will do to level 7 . it sound like Ministers will be clear when they stand up , will they not , that they definitely will not do that to level 6 apprenticeship . the last Government move to make it more attractive for sme to take on young people . from April , 16 to 21 - year - old have have 100 % funding , rather than require the 5 % employer contribution . we need to build on that by cut bureaucracy and make it easy and more attractive to take on young people . build on that would be more sensible than reorganisation , centralisation and the defunding of high apprenticeship . this Bill abolish ifate and give the Secretary of State significant power as a result , but it say nothing at all about the new body , Skills England , which be intend to be at the centre of the skill landscape under this Government . that have be a pretty unwelcome surprise to some in industry . in its briefing on the Bill , the Construction Industry Training Board note that this be " contrary to the previous characterisation of Skills England that be outline in the … king ' s Speech … and contrary to the vision for Skills England to be an independent body , establish in law , with a cross - governmental role " . the CITB make an important point . ifate exist to serve all employer — public and private — and across every Department . in contrast , Skills England will be a part of the DFE . the ceo of Skills England will be a job share between two civil servant who be currently run post - 16 skill at the Department . I be tell by former Ministers that they be good official , but this be a recentralisation into the Department — as be point out by both the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ) , and the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire . may I ask the hon . gentleman a question that I ask some of his colleague early ? in 2011 the last Government set up the Standards and Testing Agency , whose predecessor be a non - departmental public body that become an executive agency , like ifate . it set statutory assessment for school pupil and develop professional skill test for trainee teacher . the last Government do something very similar to this . why be it okay then , but be not okay now ? that be an important question . the hon . Gentleman be tempt I to go into the history of apprenticeship regulation in England , which date back to 1536 . I will not detain the House with all the detail , but suffice it to say that that be a move from one arm - length body to another , so it be different from this . none the less , ifate be well than either of those thing , which be why we end up there . the very act of a further reorganisation be likely to compound the effect of the Budget and the decision to move apprenticeship money into other project . indeed , accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , there may be a drop in apprenticeship start while ifate ' s function be transfer to the Secretary of State . it say : " the transfer of function from ifate to the DfE could potentially cause a temporary slowdown in the growth rate of new apprenticeship and technical education course due to potential delay in the approval process result from the bill . " it also say : " this may disproportionately impact disadvantaged learner , who rely more heavily on these pathway for career advancement . " so there you have it , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Government be move money out of apprenticeship , and the Budget will also hit number , but instead of focus action to boost number for young people , the Government ' s response have be to reduce quality , cut length and axe level 7 apprenticeship to try to prop up overall number . now we have yet another reorganisation — one that take we away from an independent , employer - lead system , and one that will risk , in the Government ' s own word , cut apprenticeship number and hit the most disadvantaged . oh dear , oh dear , oh dear . it be a pleasure to close the debate . I be grateful for the contribution of member on both side of the House ; we have hear some excellent speech . I welcome the point and question that have be raise , and I will go through as many as time allow . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say in her opening speech , skill be essential to our mission to drive economic growth and create opportunity . to achieve that , we need a skill system that be fit for the future . in every region , it should provide training option that lead to skilled work and give business the skilled worker whom they need in order to grow . I be pleased to hear from member about the apprenticeship and vocational course in their constituency which have lead to job , but most member have also refer to significant challenge in our skill system . Acute skill shortage be a particular issue in some area . skill supply do not match demand , and there be not enough business investment in skill . that , however , be what this Government inherit from the previous Conservative Government . we urgently need large volume of high - quality training that meet employer need , particularly in key sector . for example , as we have already hear , there be an urgent need to build more home , but a third of construction employer report find suitable skilled staff a key challenge . my hon . friend the Member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) mention level 4 and 5 qualification . in the UK , about 10 % of adult hold they as their high qualification , as oppose to — shockingly — 20 % in Germany and 34 % in Canada . we must , and this Government will , do well . Skills England , which have be deliver in shadow form since last year , be our new national body for meeting skill need . it will simplify the skill system now and in the future , combine new function with improvement in exist one , within one dynamic body . in its first report , " drive growth , widen opportunity " , Skills England highlight the critical skill gap that currently face the country . across the UK , more than 2 . 5 million role — almost one in 10 — be in critical demand . the last Conservative Government seem content with this , but put it simply , this Government be not . as my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) state so well , this be about what the Bill will achieve for everyone : it be about growth . skill England ' s initial assessment of the skill challenge in the economy , together with the " Invest 2035 " Green Paper publish last year and ahead of the forthcoming industrial strategy , set out how the in - demand occupation of today be also expect to grow in the future . as note by the Secretary of State , these growth - drive sector include the life science , clean energy , digital and technology , and creative industry . by address our skill need , the UK have a real chance of be a world leader in these field , but we must do this now : we must not delay . we must build a skill system that look ahead , and we must anticipate for the future . as be put so eloquently by my hon . friend the Members for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) and for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) , Skills England will enable employer to fill our current skill gap and the likely one of the future . excellently , they recognise the need to anticipate our future skill need . to respond directly to the point raise by the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) and the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , user of apprenticeship , employer , provider and assessment organisation regularly complain about the time it take to update standard and assessment plan . it will remain the default position that a group of people will prepare standard and assessment plan , but remove the requirement to use a group to prepare standard in every instance will speed up the process and reduce administrative burden . in line with ifate ' s current process , all new standard and those that have undergo significant revision follow review will , prior to be approve , be publish online to give interested party an opportunity to comment . it will only be in the minority of case where simple and straightforward change be propose that these will not be publish online for comment prior to approval . however , there will still be mechanism for user of the system to challenge where a standard or assessment plan be not work in practice and need revise . I appreciate what the hon . Lady be say about that , but will she in quick order set out how that will be direct either by the Secretary of State or by Skills England ? we need to know not just the detail at the point of publication , but the structural need in advance of that , so how will that be set out ? will it be set out in guidance — statutory guidance perhaps ? the right hon . member be absolutely right that these thing need to be set out , and they will be set out . this Bill be about transfer the role of ifate to the Secretary of State and enable the delivery of Skills England . Skills England will work with key partner , include employer , training provider , mayoral strategic authority and union to form a national picture of where skill gap exist and how they can be address . it will ensure employer have the skill they need to drive economic growth while create opportunity across the country and build a highly skilled workforce . during this debate , I have hear member question the need to close ifate and establish Skills England . this Government have commit to deliver for the skill sector , and we be listen to the need of employer . this can be see in our reform growth and skill offer , but we must go far to address the fragmentation of our skill system so that we can close the most persistent skill gap . the Bill pave the way for the full establishment of Skills England by enable the new body to take on and build out from ifate ' s work to shape apprenticeship and technical qualification to meet the need of employer and the economy as a whole . the scale and urgency of the skill challenge that we face mean we be set Skills England up to have a broad strategic purpose than ifate , include but stretch beyond the work previously undertake by ifate . skill England will , for instance , provide an ongoing authoritative assessment of local , regional and national skill need , which be absolutely need . it will combine the good statistical datum with insight from employer and other key stakeholder , and will use these insight to ensure the design of technical education and apprenticeship reflect the skill need that have be identify , so that we can truly build a workforce fit for the future . labour market and the skill require to increase productivity and economic growth vary considerably by region , and we have already hear from many member about the different skill that be need in their region . skill England will therefore also have a strong regional footprint , work closely with local skill system so that they can tap into the comprehensive suite of training offer that it will build across the country . Skills England will also ensure that skill sit at the heart of join - up decision making across Government . it will work closely with the Industrial Strategy Council , so that we have the skilled workforce need to deliver a clear , long - term plan for the future economy , and with the Migration Advisory Committee , because grow the domestic skill pipeline will reduce our reliance on overseas worker . while Skills England will have a broad and ambitious strategic agreement , it will not be able to deliver the scale of change that we need without its taking on ifate ' s important work , so the transfer of function through the Bill be vital . the Bill do not , however , simply aim to transfer function . it also include a number of target change intend to allow the system for design and approve technical qualification and apprenticeship to become more agile and responsive ; we have be listen to employer , who have tell we this be crucial if we be to work together to plug the skill gap at the pace require . the Bill will provide great flexibility when designing standard and apprenticeship plan and make process easy to engage with , allow expert to invest their time and expertise at the right point . there be so much I would like to say in response to the many point that member have make , and I apologise now for not be able to respond to the many excellent point and comment . however , there be a few very pivotal point that I do need to mention . the Bill be amend in the House of Lords to delay its commencement by a year . it be disappointing that peer vote for a delay to the full establishment of Skills England , despite many member of the other place support its aim . this Government be clear that employer need a fully functional Skills England now — as I have say , they can not wait . the skill gap in our economy be hold back growth and opportunity , and we need this Bill to give Skills England the key tool to tackle those gap without delay . I can not say that enough . Skills England be in shadow form , and have already engage widely , with more than 700 different partner represent thousand of individual organisation through roundtable , cross - section webinar and network event , include the Confederation of British Industry , the Federation of Small Businesses and the Institute of Directors , as well as a range of employer and representative body from priority sector , include digital , life science , green , construction and healthcare , and we will continue to listen to the voice of expert to shape what we do . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Bobby Dean Alex Easton Tim Farron Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Carla Lockhart James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Claire Young Susan Murray Z ö e Franklin Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Ellie Chowns Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling John Grady Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 70 , Noes 312 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Ellie Chowns Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling John Grady Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Gen Kitchen Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Bobby Dean Tim Farron Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Claire Young Susan Murray Z ö e Franklin the House divide : Ayes 317 , Noes 55 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 20 March 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Education that the draft high Education ( Fee Limits and Fee Limit Condition ) ( England ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 20 January , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - Kendal Post Office I rise to present a petition on behalf of 2 , 830 of my constituent in Kendal and the surround community in favour of retain and keep alive the Kendal Crown post office on Stricklandgate in our town . in 2019 , we successfully run a campaign to save the Kendal Crown post office and , as a community , we be determined to do so again . the Crown post office serve our community wonderfully with fantastic staff , but more than that , it provide the home for the Royal Mail sort office , and the postal worker there also do a wonderful job . to lose the Crown post office building could mean that we also lose the Royal Mail sort office , and we be determined to stop that . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Westmorland and Lonsdale , declare that Kendal Post Office should not be include in the list of 115 directly operate post office at risk of closure ; further note Kendal Post Office ' s role as a vital community service at the heart of Kendal ; far declare that it should remain in its current position or should only be move to suitable premise . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government and Post Office to reconsider and guarantee the future of Kendal Post Office . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003046 ] Doncaster Sheffield Airport Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to make the case for the economic contribution of Doncaster Sheffield airport in the House . its reopening be the no . 1 priority for the people of Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme , as well as resident right across our region . reopen our airport be not simply a matter of bring job , though it will bring job . it be not just about the wide economy , though it will massively contribute to the economy . it be about our local pride , because our airport be our local pride . when DSA close two year ago , our community be rob of a key part of its history and identity . see plane fly once again in the sky above Doncaster be my goal and the reason I address the House tonight . I will use my time today to speak about the business case for reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport , the clear economic benefit and the importance of the Government ' s commitment to finally get this over the line . I will talk first about the inspire local campaign that have keep DSA high on the agenda since the airport close its door 818 long day ago , and that have provide the momentum to get we to where we be today : on the brink of make the dream of reopen a reality . this be not the first time I have raise Doncaster Sheffield airport in this place . no . no . since be elect , I have ask many question on the subject . I be sure that hon . member across the House will be delighted to hear that this will not be the last time either . the fact be that it be important to so many constituent , and nothing demonstrate that well than the Save DSA campaign . I be proud to champion the campaign to save our airport in Parliament , and I hope my effort in this place serve to highlight the wide effort of local campaigner at home . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring the debate forward . I speak to he beforehand , so he know what I be go to say . do he agree that Government funding for local industry mean that a rise tide lift all ship and that the support for the airport will have a great add - on benefit to the local economy ? do he far agree that support for all our airport through the reduction of air passenger duty for flight within the UK would greatly increase the economic benefit to airport and the constituency around they , as well as bring tourism benefit ? I most certainly agree that the economic benefit of a regional airport opening be huge , not just for local job and the local economy but for the tourism trade , which be massively important right now . when community suffer the loss of major employer , as ours do , it be easy to slip into doom and gloom . Mark Chadwick — who I be pleased to say be here this evening — and the rest of the Save DSA campaign team refuse to sink into negativity . they know that there be no good business case to close that airport . they know that there be no good reason to abandon our community , rip out a part of our heritage and end those job . the Save DSA campaign and other have fight tirelessly since the airport ' s closure to keep it from become yet another example of regional decline . I thank they for their effort and massively commend their work , as well as that of other group , such as the Friends of DSA , a group of ex - employee and supporter whom I have the fortune of meeting recently . their dedication show that it be never just a job for they . I know they will be follow progress closely . member who be unfamiliar with our airport may ask , " why be this so important ? " when Peel decide to close the airport in November 2022 , it be not just a blow to passenger ; it be the end of hundred of good , well - pay job in Doncaster and the surround area . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . I have hear time and again from my constituent about their regret that they no long have easy access to an airport on their doorstep . not only be Doncaster airport important for passenger , but it be embed in the business community in Bassetlaw . its closure mean job loss and the loss of regular income stream for local business . do he agree that reopen the airport will create new opportunity for resident in my constituency , include in the world - lead step — spherical tokamak for energy production — project , which will deliver international investment and high - skilled job to the surround area ? most certainly . I have already speak with the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) about the importance of a regional airport . my hon . friend be quite right that it would make all the difference globally and internationally , particularly in Bassetlaw , where she live . despite the good effort of Doncaster Mayor Ros Jones , South Yorkshire Mayor Oliver Coppard and other , include my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , the airport be closed . to say that be a bitter blow for our community be an understatement . the closure of our airport bring home the reality of the previous Government ' s levelling - up programme . it feel back then like there be no levelling up for the people of Doncaster . it be not just job that we lose ; we lose local pride and a connection to our past . Doncaster Sheffield airport be , apart from anything else , a vital link to our community ' s aviation heritage . before it be the fine international airport in the country , DSA be RAF Finningley , with an aviation history date back to 1915 . during the first world war , plane from Finningley , fly by incredibly brave man , intercept german zeppelin en route to Sheffield . during the second world war , Finningley serve as a bomber base , and be once again at the forefront of protect british life and defend our democracy . when Julie Ann Gibson ' s plane land at Finningley in 1991 , she trailblaze her way into the history book : for the first time in its 73 year , the Air Force have a female pilot . that heritage remain evident at the site today thank to the incredible work of the Vulcan to the Sky trust , which be commit to preserve and protect two of the most iconic aircraft in british history : the Avro Vulcan and the English Electric Canberra . when I visit the trust last year , I be inspire by its work not only to protect those incredible feat of british engineering , but to support and guide Britain ' s next generation of engineer through their work , include child and young people in my constituency — a link to our past ; a promise for our future . I hope you can tell from my word , Madam Deputy Speaker , how intensely proud we be of our airport , and that you can hear why it be so important to my constituent . allow I to move on to the business case for reopen DSA . I have spend much of my time since become an MP talk to local business leader , and I have lose count of the number of time I have be ask the same question : when be the airport reopen ? local business be as keen as anyone to see our airport reopen . they understand how strong the business case be . with renew conversation nationally about airport capacity and the importance of bring back growth , we need look no far than a regional airport practically ready to go . a huge amount of work have be do in the background , lead by Doncaster Mayor Ros Jones and her team , to make sure all the I ' s be dot and the t ' s be cross when it come to demonstrate the viability of DSA . Ros know well than anyone how vital it be to prove beyond doubt that reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport be not just good for local pride but a brilliant business decision . an independent financial viability assessment have be clear : Doncaster Sheffield airport be absolutely a viable business prospect . the full business case project more than 5 , 000 direct and 6 , 500 indirect job from a reopened DSA by 2050 ; £ 5 billion in gross value add to the economy ; £ 2 billion in gross welfare benefit ; and — the headline that really grab my attention — a project benefit - cost ratio of 9 : 1 . that mean for every single pound put in , we get £ 9 in return . it be no wonder the business community be keen to see the airport back in action . Dan Fell , CEO of Doncaster chamber of commerce , have say : " in addition to create thousand of job , the airport will also act as a magnet for investment , help business trade internationally , far develop the region ' s capability as a nationally significant hub for freight and logistic , and support inbound tourism . " my hon . friend be make a powerful case to underscore his claim to be call Mr Doncaster Airport . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Yorkshire and northern Lincolnshire , I support any move that lead to great growth across our entire region . do he agree that we need to not just seize opportunity such as this but accelerate the delivery of they , so that everyone in our region can feel the benefit of economic growth ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and for the work he do on the APPG to promote everything that be great and need in Yorkshire . I could not agree more about the economic importance of this airport for we all . this be not just an airport . this be not just Doncaster . a reopened DSA be also a reopened South Yorkshire , open the door to inward investment from across the globe . where once there be fighter plane , now there will be freight plane . Doncaster sit at the heart of our great country . it be already one of our major transport hub . with DSA open again , South Yorkshire will become home to new industry , cut - edge renewable energy and technological innovation . as well as the exciting prospect of plane take off from Doncaster once again , do my hon . friend agree that this be a significant opportunity to turn both Doncaster and South Yorkshire into a hub for sustainable aviation fuel , create high - skill , high - wage job for our local economy in that industry , in line with the Government ' s growth agenda to ensure that economic prosperity be feel all over the country , include in area such as Doncaster and South Yorkshire ? I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for that intervention . I wholeheartedly agree about the importance of look at sustainable aviation fuel and the opportunity it bring in term of new job , aspiration and a future for our child and young adult in the area . People love to fly , and they will always fly . we need that to bring creativity back to our shore and learn from other , so it be massively important that we continue to promote technology such as sustainable aviation fuel . if we be look for growth and reindustrialisation , and if we be look to decentralise our economy away from London , where well to look than an airport that sit ready and wait to serve ? the promise of apprenticeship and high - pay , good job for our young people be another reason that our airport must reopen and one of my major priority as an MP . Doncaster , like so many town and city in the north , have see many of its bright young people leave for prospect elsewhere . the promise of regional economic growth be a promise to our young people . it be a promise that say , " yes , you can chase that brilliant , bright future , and you can chase it right here at home on your doorstep . " recently , I be lucky enough to meet the UK ' s young pilot trainer , and the world ' s young flight examiner , Kathan Dudhela . we speak about Doncaster Sheffield airport , and he tell I how excited he be that one day he might get to land on that historic runway . I leave that conversation inspire by he , and determine to see Doncaster ' s young people follow in his great footstep . I will continue to fight for the apprenticeship and training opportunity that must come alongside a reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport . so much have be achieve in the last few month . a £ 20 million investment have be approve , combine fund from Doncaster city council and the South Yorkshire mayoral combine authority , which will go towards support the crucial early stage work that be require to mobilise and reopen the airport . an operator , Munich Airport International , have be announce , and before Christmas I be proud , along with many of my hon . friend , to witness the first flight back since the closure , courtesy of 2Excel , which remain on the site all that time and never lose faith . do not get I wrong : thing be look great , but challenge remain . important practical step to make Doncaster Sheffield airport operational still need to be take , and there be still hurdle to jump . however , none of the remain challenge be impossible . all that be require now be the political will to seize this opportunity and get we over the line . right now the star be align . the finance be commit , the operator be secure , the Mayor , combine authority and regional mp be all on the same page . we can not allow this opportunity to slip through our finger . this be a moment to show the world that Doncaster and South Yorkshire be once again open for business . my hon . friend be make a characteristically tub - thump speech about this airport . my constituency , and Maltby in particular , have many people who work at and use the airport . my hon . Friend speak about the opportunity for people to remain at home and still get on in life , which really strike a chord with I when I speak to young people in Maltby . do he agree that the airport be not just about flight , but about offer young people a future to remain at home , and a bright future to stay in Maltby ? most certainly . our young people have aspiration , but we need to provide job and opportunity for all . a reopened airport will provide those great opportunity for lot of different job , flight , potential future pilot , and superb job on the runway and the ground . will the Government make their commitment to a reopened Doncaster Sheffield airport clear ? will the Minister explain what concrete step the Government will take to support the economic benefit of a reopened DSA , and will he commit tonight to support the full reopening of our airspace and to avoid any further delay ? we have see the result across our great nation time and again , when vital regional infrastructure be not nurture with the political will need to sustain it . the desire for something different be a big part of the reason that the last election return so many Labour mp . voter have have enough of regional decline , and enough of be tell that this be the way it have to be . they want hope . this new Government promise to give they that hope , and they must now keep that promise . my constituency office sit just across the road from the terminal building of Doncaster Sheffield airport . when I head into work , I look across the road and see a building that be begin to wake back up after a fretful sleep . as Mark Chadwick tell I , this transformative initiative be not just about secure a prosperous future for ourselves ; it also pave the way for our child , and our child ' s child . the reopening of our airport stand as a beacon of hope , offer unparalleled prospect for the community now and for generation to come . I be ready , all of we in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme be ready . South Yorkshire be ready , the region be ready , and we want to see those plane above Doncaster once again . Shakespeare say : " some be bear great , some achieve greatness , and some have greatness thrust upon they . " I think it be all three in the case of my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) . as a Lancastrian , I be feel rather intimidate by the line - up of member on the Benches behind I , but thank God I have the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on my side , even though he be sit on the Opposition Benches . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme on secure this important debate about the economic contribution of Doncaster Sheffield airport . I also congratulate he on be appoint as Labour ' s utility business champion . my hon . friend have a great cv , from work his way up in the water industry to deliver logistic and infrastructure , so he know what he be talk about when it come to aviation infrastructure . he may be Mr Doncaster , but our hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) be Mrs Doncaster . as the aviation Minister , I fear the Division Lobby some evening , as I be rugby tackled day in , day out about get Doncaster Sheffield airport reopen . my hon . friend care about the future of the airport , their constituent and the wide South Yorkshire region . I have listen very carefully to the consider comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme , and by all the member who contribute , and I will try to address most of they , but first I want to say a few word about Doncaster Sheffield airport . I know there be deep disappointment in South Yorkshire and beyond when the previous owner decide to close the airport at the end of 2022 . that mark the end of a 17 - year operation as a commercial airport , but before that it have a long and illustrious history as RAF Finningley . my hon . friend mention Jean Lennox Bird , the first female RAF pilot in the UK . as we approach International Women ' s day , her contribution should not go unnoticed by the House . the airport be well regard by the people and airline that use it , and it be frequently rate by which ? magazine as the good airport in the UK , with excellent customer service and passenger experience . passenger number be continue to grow prior to the pandemic , with more than 1 . 4 million passenger in 2019 . from my many discussion with hon . member from Doncaster and the Doncaster area — quite a few of they be sit around I tonight — I know that its closure be deeply feel by the local community . I understand that the " Save Doncaster Sheffield airport " petition have have more than 100 , 000 signature , which be impressive . I be pleased to hear about the progress make in the airport ' s reopen and the benefit that could bring , which I will come to shortly , but I want to set out the importance of aviation for the growth and prosperity of the nation . Madam Deputy Speaker , you know that I grow up under an aviation runway in my home constituency of Wythenshawe and Sale East . go to Manchester airport as a child and see the BAC One - Elevens , the trident and the Concordes , and even the space shuttle do a low pass on the back of a jumbo jet in the mid - 1980 , be inspirational for I , as it be for so many people as a career for the future . as we keep say , growth be this Government ' s no . 1 priority . in her recent speech , the Chancellor be clear about the importance of the aviation sector in enable that economic growth . her speech invite proposal for a third runway at Heathrow and announce a new partnership between Prologis and East Midlands airport to build a new advanced manufacturing park , unlock £ 1 billion in investment and job . that be a clear demonstration of how aviation can contribute significantly to the economy , through be a key enabler of international trade , investment and connectivity . aviation be also a major employer in its own right , as I see in my own constituency . in 2022 , the air transport and aerospace sector alone directly provide around 240 , 000 job across the UK , provide opportunity in every part of the country . overall , in 2023 the air transport and aerospace sector directly contribute over £ 20 billion to UK GDP . that be why aviation be a key component of the Government ' s transport strategy , enable economic growth and connectivity , and invest in sustainability by connect people , place and business . regional airport such as Doncaster Sheffield airport have an important role to play . they serve our local community — people be proud of they — and they serve business by support thousand of job in the region and act as a gateway to international opportunity , whether that be a family holiday or support major investment decision . they also provide important connectivity , help to connect community across the UK and the wide world . I have be interested in hear about the South Yorkshire airport city vision , which have the reopen airport at its heart . it be propose that a reopened Doncaster Sheffield airport could help to raise economic and social wellbeing in Doncaster , deliver employment and facilitate wide development , which could help to unlock growth for South Yorkshire . as my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme say , the council ' s business case indicate that the airport ' s reopen and wide development have the potential to support more than 5 , 000 direct job , boost the economy by £ 5 billion and provide wide welfare benefit of £ 2 billion by 2050 . I welcome the effort of the council and the Mayors of Doncaster and of South Yorkshire to secure the future of the airport and the economic opportunity for the region . significant progress have already be make , with the agreement of City of Doncaster council to lease the airport . the return of aviation activity in December last year be an important milestone , as be mention , as 2Excel land the first aircraft there in three year . as the aviation Minister , I add my thank and congratulation to it for stick with the airport . as my hon . Friend say , another important milestone be reach early this month , as Munich Airport International be appoint by City of Doncaster council to help to progress the airport ' s reopen . there will be many more milestone and many more challenge , but , as the Chancellor set out in her recent speech , this Government will work with City of Doncaster council and the Mayor of South Yorkshire to support their effort to reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport as a thriving regional airport . as well as the airport , this Government be commit to support all mode of travel in the region to support the local economy . last November , South Yorkshire be allocate £ 17 million - worth of bus improvement plan and funding to support bus service . just last week , the Mayor of South Yorkshire be inform that he would receive more than £ 5 million in the next financial year to invest in active travel , which be in addition to almost £ 9 million for South Yorkshire . in January , the Department announce funding for low - emission vehicle as part of the levy funding , as well as funding for zero - emission bus , prove the Government ' s commitment to decarbonisation . the South Yorkshire mayoral combine authority receive £ 8 . 4 million of funding from the ZEBRA 1 programme for 27 electric bus and charge infrastructure . furthermore , the Government be progress planning and design work to support future delivery of our plan for northern rail connectivity , and we will set out detail in due course . that will inform the work be undertake , such as the development of Rotherham mainline station . I be also pleased to support South Yorkshire ' s local transport priority with an investment of £ 570 million through the city region sustainable transport settlement programme . that be a five - year deal with £ 5 . 7 billion of Government investment to improve the transport network of eight city region across the UK . as part of our commitment to local transport , we announce in the autumn Budget that we will uplift fund and funding nationally in this area in 2025 - 26 by £ 200 million , help to improve the local transport in our large city region and drive growth and productivity across the country . I mention that because transport be a rich tapestry , and have an airport as a hub be important . we know that the destination that airport reach be dependent on public transport penetration time of within an hour , so improve public transport and active travel in this area will help Doncaster Sheffield airport to reach the market it want to reach in the future . my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme also speak about airspace at Doncaster Sheffield airport . airspace modernisation be one of our manifesto commitment , and the Government be commit to its delivery . it remain a key aviation priority for the Department , which aim to deliver quick , quieter and clean journey to benefit those who use and be affect by UK airspace . we have see great progress in airspace modernisation in the north , with airport now prepare for their public consultation . I know that official and the Civil Aviation Authority will be work tirelessly to make sure that we reopen that airspace in the interest of Doncaster Sheffield airport . again , I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate , which have be an opportunity for hon . member to highlight the importance of Doncaster Sheffield airport to their constituent and region . my official and I look forward to continue engagement with both South Yorkshire combine authority and City of Doncaster council to support their effort to reopen this airport . question put and agree to . House adjourn .