Speaker ' s Statement before we begin question , I wish to make a short statement about the House ' s sub judice resolution . member will be aware of the recent death at HM Prison Parc , include two more death overnight . a coroner ' s inquest have be open into some of those death . these proceeding be now sub judice . while the sub judice rule can be waive , it be not to be do lightly , and for the time be no reference should be make to those proceeding in the House . member may ask about related issue to do with the health and safety of prisoner , and the security of the prison estate . but I urge hon . member to exercise caution in what they say , and particularly to avoid speculate on the cause of the death of these man . oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — 20 mph Speed Limit : impact on Road Users what recent discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the impact of the 20 mph speed limit on residential road and pedestrian street in Wales on road user . what recent discussion he have have with the Cabinet Secretary for North Wales and Transport on the impact of the 20 mph speed limit on residential road and pedestrian street in Wales on road user . what recent discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the impact of the 20 mph speed limit on residential road and pedestrian street in Wales on road user . Mr Rosindell be not here , but will the Secretary of State answer his question , as it be the lead ? before I do so , Mr Speaker , may I fully support your ruling and send my deep condolence to the relative of all those who have die in prison ? may I make it absolutely clear that I , conservative mp , Senedd Members and councillor be supportive of a 20 mph speed limit in certain area , such as outside school , hospital , old people ' s home or anywhere where there be vulnerable pedestrian ? but the blanket 20 mph speed limit have have a detrimental effect on road user , user of public transport and business across Wales , and I call on the Welsh Labour Government to think again . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . clearly , there be a strong case for 20 mph limit outside school , in shopping area and in other area where there be huge pedestrian activity , but a blanket ban be outrageous . have he any detail as to the cost to the Welsh economy of this extremely damaging move , and , indeed , the cost of implement it across Wales in such a blanket fashion ? my understanding be that the vast majority of 30 mph road be now 20 mph . I have see a figure suggest that it be around 96 % — [ interruption . ] Mr Speaker , it be a blanket ban on 30 mph road and that be exactly what the Welsh Labour Government put out there . I can give my hon . friend an indication of the cost , because the Welsh Government ' s own impact assessment suggest that this would cause a £ 4 . 5 billion hit to the Welsh economy and , on top of that , taxpayer have have to pay £ 30 million for 20 mph road sign . this be really concern and I note that almost half a million people — a record number — sign a petition on the Senedd ' s move , because they be so concerned about the impact that the measure will have . it cost £ 33 million to implement and now it be estimate that an extra £ 5 million be need to unwind the change . what conversation be my right hon . friend have with the Welsh Government to ensure that we do not see such policy again ? we certainly do not want policy such as this . there be an anti - motorist agenda with the Welsh Labour Government that include not only 20 mph speed limit , but legislation bring in toll on the M4 and a ban on any major new road project be build . we have even have Monmouthshire Labour Council suggest that it might want to campaign to bring back severn bridge toll . the lesson be that if people support motorist and support the right to drive a car they should vote Conservative at the next general election . on this illogical decision to pursue a 20 mph limit , do the Minister agree that there be a lesson to be learn for a government — in Wales or elsewhere — try to pursue something that the general public quite clearly do not want at all ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . he raise a very good point , because this be clearly do against the wish of almost half a million people — a record number of people — who sign a petition on this matter . the most recent announcement by the Welsh Government , which raise the possibility of their do a screeching u - turn on the policy , suggest to I that they might be more interested in deflect national press attention from the scandal involve the Welsh Labour Government in Cardiff Bay . I call the shadow Secretary of State . if you will indulge I , Mr Speaker , I would like to acknowledge the 25th anniversary this week of Welsh devolution — deliver by a Labour Government . it have help to nurture a confident , modern and outward - look Wales , and Labour Members be proud of it . not a single one of the hon . member who have raise question on this issue live in Wales , and the speed limit be not blanket , as the Secretary of State well know . it be a bit like the conservative councillor in Sunderland who set up anti - 20 mph facebook group while campaign for the limit in his own area . meanwhile , a mother whose 11 - year - old son be hit by a car near his school in Flintshire say that the 20 mph speed limit likely save his life . do the Secretary of State agree that her intervention represent an important endorsement of the Welsh Labour Government ' s policy to protect life , especially child ' s life ? I , too , acknowledge the 25th anniversary of devolution . we be promise that it would deliver well school , hospital and public standard . what we actually have be the long waiting list and the bad educational standard in the United Kingdom , and a First Minister who be willing to take a £ 200 , 000 donation from a twice - convict criminal . that be the record of 25 year of Labour - run Government in Wales . I say straightaway that I be in favour of 20 mph limit outside school , hospital and other place where there be vulnerable pedestrian . I do not like the blanket ban that have be impose as part of the anti - motorist agenda of the Welsh Labour Government . it be rich of Government Members to chunter about donation . how much of Mr Frank Hester ' s million be bankroll the Conservatives ' general election campaign ? this be a man who say that a black woman MP in this House " should be shoot " . on road , do the Secretary of State agree with his own association deputy chairman , write in ConservativeHome this week , that politic in Wales be a " cul - de - sac " for the Tory party ? the Welsh public do not like divisive politic , and they do not like Wales be constantly talk down by the Tories . be that why they have not win a domestic election in Wales for over a century ? I remind the hon . Lady that we just get more vote than the Labour party in my constituency of Monmouth in the police and crime commissioner election . what people in Wales want be public service , waiting list and education standard that match what be be deliver by this Conservative Government in England , and standard in public life that reflect what we expect from member of Parliament in the United Kingdom . that be not what we be get under the Welsh Labour Government . biodiversity : Rivers and Streams what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the biodiversity of Welsh river and stream . water be a devolved matter in Wales , and therefore river and stream in Wales be the responsibility of the Welsh Government . the UK Government recognise that river be an essential part of our natural environment . that be why we be work on the UK national biodiversity strategy and action plan . will the Minister fess up to the fact that the real scandal in Wales be that the UK Government keep denigrate a good Welsh Government that in term of biodiversity and so much else be well than the rest of the UK ? on biodiversity , they be three time well than England . be it not about time that we get a few Welsh idea and Welsh leader to help we clean up our act and our river ? that be a good attempt , but I simply can not disagree with the hon . gentleman more . it be this Government who force water company to provide £ 56 million towards investment in the storm overflow network , improve water quality across England . in Wales , the picture could not be more different . the average number of sewage spill per outflow be 38 ; in England , it be 23 . our record speak for itself . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker , for clarify the sub judice rule in relation to Parc Prison . mp across south Wales be disappoint that the urgent question be decline yesterday , but we understand why . we will continue to seek answer and to scrutinise Ministers over these deeply distress event , and the way the prison be be run . thousand of Pembrokeshire resident continue to have their life blight by air pollution and fear about water pollution from the Withyhedge landfill site . give that the Ministers in Wales who be responsible for oversee the public health and the environmental regulatory response both vote last week to block an independent investigation into the financial dealing between the owner of that site and the First Minister , how on earth can my constituent have confidence that their concern will be address impartially and the problem resolve ? my right hon . friend live this issue on a daily basis , and I commend he for highlight the plight of his constituent , who have to endure the impact of such devastating environmental pollution . any way we look at it , this donation stink , and it be shameful that the Welsh Government be evade scrutiny on the issue . his constituent can have no confidence that this matter will be investigate . there be no independent scrutiny here . Labour Members should explain why they be scared of scrutiny on this question . cost of live what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Wales . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Wales what recent assessment he have make of the impact of increase in the cost of live on people in Wales . the UK Government fully recognise the challenge pose by cost of living pressure that have come about as a result of covid and the invasion of Ukraine . that be why they have commit to the triple lock on pension for this Parliament , increase the living wage , benefit 140 , 000 people in Wales , and put an average £ 701 back into the pocket of a typical worker in Wales through national insurance cut . the Trussell Trust say that one fifth of people in Wales have cut back on or skip meal in the last 12 month . what conversation be the Secretary of State have with supermarket about hold down the cost of food for customer ? I know that many supermarket be support food bank within their local area , and the UK Government have certainly support those with the least by make sure that pension , benefit and the minimum wage all go up in line with inflation , and make extra payment on top to pensioner , those on benefit and household where there be disability . however , if the hon . Lady be truly concerned about cost of living pressure in Wales , perhaps she ought to ask her colleague in the Welsh Labour Government why , on this very day , Welsh Labour Ministers be support a plan to create dozen of extra Senedd Members at a cost of £ 120 million — all money that could be far well spend on support those with the least . be the Secretary of State aware of a study by Citizens Advice Cymru indicate that more than half a million people in Wales be struggle to make end meet ? if he be aware , what be he do about it ? I have already outline the extra payment that be be make to pensioner and those on benefit and disability , and the fact that pension , benefit and the minimum wage have all go up in line with inflation . on top of that , the UK Government have deliver five town fund , four growth deal , three round of level - up funding , two investment zone , two freeport , an electric arc furnace in south Wales and an electrified rail line in north Wales — and what be we get from the Welsh Labour Government ? we be get £ 120 million spend on extra Senedd Members . while we level up the economy , they want to level up the number of politician in Cardiff Bay . the Secretary of State mention Ukraine and covid as contribute factor to the cost of living crisis , but he forget to mention Brexit — or be he go to try to argue that Brexit have somehow improve thing and make good and service cheap for people in Wales ? I would be only too delighted to mention Brexit , which be vote for by a majority of the United Kingdom and a majority in Wales , and point out to the hon . Gentleman that since Brexit the UK have grow fast than France and Germany . I could also mention waste money on scottish embassy all around the world , try to build ferry that have not yet be float anywhere , raise taxis and try to shut down the oil and gas industry in Scotland as measure that be unlikely to help with cost of living pressure in Scotland . the Development Bank of Wales be suppose to be aid business through cost of living pressure . do my right hon . friend agree that it be unacceptable that one company receive £ 400 , 000 from the bank , and be then able to give the First Minister of Wales £ 200 , 000 ? my hon . friend raise a very interesting point here . the Development Bank of Wales , which be own ultimately by the Welsh taxpayer , should be there to support business through cost of living pressure . it be able to make a £ 400 , 000 loan to a company that be then able to turn round and add £ 200 , 000 back into a political donation to enable the First Minister to win the Welsh Labour leadership election . it be a very good question , but it be not a question for I ; it be one that should be answer by those on the shadow Front Bench . on this matter , they have be very silent indeed . small business , particularly those in retail and hospitality , be directly affect by cost of living challenge come from covid and the energy price spike from the Ukraine conflict . the Chancellor have , therefore , introduce a 75 % business rate relief scheme in England , which be support business in England . do my right hon . friend the Secretary of State share my concern that that funding be not be use to the same degree in Wales , and that business rate in Wales be only be relieve at a rate of 40 % , so business be pay more in tax ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the UK Government make certain that the money for the business rate discount be pass on to the Welsh Labour Government , but instead of pass it on to the pub , restaurant and small business that be so vital to community in Wales , they have decide to spend it on other matter , such as the one they be vote on today . as a result , the average pub in Wales be pay thousand more in business rate than a pub just across the border in England . that be absolutely scandalous , and I urge the Welsh Labour Government to think about where their priority be . I call the shadow Minister . no contrition , then , in any of those answer from the Secretary of State , whose party have , by freeze tax threshold , pile on £ 960 extra on average to the tax bill of around 400 , 000 pensioner in Wales . the Prime Minister have now make a totally unfunded £ 46 billion promise to scrap national insurance . will the Secretary of State tell we how on earth the Government will pay for that , and will he rule out raise income tax by 8p or scrap winter fuel payment to do so ? we have make it clear that we want to keep the triple lock to ensure that pension continue to increase in line with inflation . we will be able to afford that by ensure that we get growth in the economy , which be why we want to end the double taxation system of make those in work pay extra money through national insurance tax . we have also make it clear that we will make tax cut only when we can afford they , because on the conservative side of the House , we do not believe in make unfunded promise in order to buy vote . More than one in four child in Wales live in poverty . devolution have the capacity to transform people ' s life , but the current First Minister be distract by question about his integrity , delete message and take dodgy donation . after 25 year since the start of devolution , do the Secretary of State agree that government at both end of the M4 need to recommit to integrity and transparency ? I can absolutely assure the right hon . Lady that this Government , and the Conservative party , be completely commit to integrity — [ interruption . ] Labour member be laugh , but their own First Minister take £ 200 , 000 from a convict criminal — one who have receive £ 400 , 000 from a bank for which the First Minister be responsible — and tell the covid committee that all the message on his phone have be accidentally delete by the IT department , but now we see a screenshot in which he urge people to delete their message so that they can not be subject to a freedom of information request . Labour Members have the audacity to sit there laugh when people ask question about standard . I say that the right hon . Lady make a very good point : let we collapse the coalition and stop support the Welsh Labour Government , and then we can get a decent government with decent value run Wales . my party seek to make a difference to the life of the people of Wales , but the Secretary of State and I be in agreement for once when it come to his judgment in relation to the First Minister . it scream hypocrisy , however , because the Tories in the Senedd vote against a Plaid Cymru motion to set a cap on political donation , and his party have still not return a £ 10 million donation from a man who make racist and misogynistic remark . in that spirit of open democracy , will he support a cap on donation to political party ? I will not sit here and start make policy on the hoof , but I say to the right hon . Lady — and I think she would agree — that I would not have take hundred of thousand of pound in donation from somebody who have be convict twice of environmental offence . if Labour member be happy with that , it be a matter for they . River Wye Action Plan what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the River Wye action plan . I thank my right hon . friend for his work as Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . the UK Government ' s River Wye action plan will halt ongoing decline of the River Wye to preserve and restore that treasured river to the rating of favourable condition . as the Minister have already say , the environment be a devolved matter , but nobody seem to have tell the River Wye , which rise in Wales and cross the border to merge into the River Severn in England . I very much welcome the River Wye action plan , which the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs announce recently . have my hon . friend see any action take by the Welsh Government to match the UK Government ' s commitment to clean up the polluted River Wye ? in the interest of time , I will give my right hon . friend a very short answer : no . the Welsh Government have fail to come to the table time and time again on this issue , which be close to my heart as a constituency MP for the River Wye . that have be the miss piece of the puzzle , and it be why we be see no action in Wales . NHS Waiting Times what recent discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on NHS waiting time . Healthcare be devolve to the Welsh Government , who have receive record level of funding to deliver on all their devolved responsibility , receive 20 % more funding per person than in England . so many people in Wales be wait long for NHS care than people in England , and in a 12 - month period , 40 , 000 people have to go from Wales to England for elective care . do that not show that Labour ' s claim to be well for the NHS be completely false ? my right hon . friend be entirely right : the NHS be not safe in Labour ' s hand , and we have live proof of that in Wales . it be a great shame that when the Secretary of State for Health in England offer the support of the NHS in England to alleviate pressure on wait time in Wales , the Welsh Health Secretary turn that support down . that be Labour ' s record on the NHS . one of the problem that a lot of my constituent have raise with I be that when they do get a letter call they for an appointment — include one for which they have be wait for some time — that letter arrive after the appointment date , because the Royal Mail be now deliver such an appalling service . be it not time that we have a strong word to make sure that people who be be call for appointment get a chance to turn up to they , because they have actually receive their letter on time ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point , and one that I will certainly investigate with colleague , but I think the problem lie with the mismanagement of the Welsh NHS , for which his party must take responsibility . victim of Crime : support what step he be take to help support victim of crime in Wales . the UK Government recognise the importance of victim have access to the support they need to recover from the impact of crime . that be why we be quadruple funding for victim service , up from £ 41 million in 2010 . as a recent victim of crime , I know that one impact on victim be that it make you reflect on how many crime remain unsolved . the late figure show that nine in 10 crime in Wales go unsolved in the past six month , so what can the Minister say to the victim of the 82 , 000 report crime that go uncharged last year ? first , may I say how sorry I be to learn that the hon . Lady have be a victim of crime ? I know the experience she have go through , and I personally send she my huge sympathy . this Government have a proud record of deliver for victim of crime , whether through new piece of legislation or the record headcount of police officer . unfortunately , it be the Welsh Government who choose to reduce the number of police community support officer last year , which be have an impact on victim of crime . do my hon . friend agree that we be all victim when senior labour politician make false and misleading statement at public inquiry ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . it be deeply concern that a First Minister should reveal himself to have act in such a way , which appear to be entirely contrary . I look forward to Welsh Labour Members call for further scrutiny of that issue . future of Steelmaking what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the future of the steelmaking industry in Wales . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the future of the steelmaking industry in Wales . I have regular discussion with Cabinet colleague on a range of subject , include steelmaking in Wales . the Government be invest £ 500 million to retain steelmaking at Port Talbot and other Tata site include Llanwern and Shotton , protect 5 , 000 job and thousand more in the supply chain while increase our economic security . at the same time , the Government have put aside £ 80 million for the transition board to spend on support anyone who lose their job in Port Talbot or in the wide community . whether it be the transmission pylon and line need to upgrade our power grid as demand by the Winser report , or the prospect of build steel - base offshore wind platform , the Welsh steel industry can and should be central to our transition to a net zero nation . when historic investment in green steel be be make by european competitor , do the Secretary of State recognise that the Government ' s lack of ambition for Britain have let thousand of skilled worker down ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point about the importance of make sure there be a grid connection to enable an electric arc furnace to work properly . I have raise this issue with National Grid , and it have assure I that the grid connection can be make on time . the hon . Gentleman make a second reasonable point about the importance of be able to use steel produce in Port Talbot for float offshore wind turbine . that be not the case at the moment because , as some of his Front Benchers seem to be unaware , the steel make in Port Talbot be coil , which be too thin to make those turbine . however , he will be pleased to know that there be discussion go on with one major investor to try to ensure that the steel produce from the arc furnace can be make in a way that could support float offshore wind structure . the sustainability of domestic automotive manufacturing be vital to the future prosperity of Luton ' s local economy , so what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the UK ' s automotive industry about the effect of lose our sovereign virgin steel production on their supply chain cost ? I have regular discussion with the automotive industry , and I have also have regular discussion with the steel industry across the United Kingdom . some 90 % of the grade that be currently produce by Port Talbot can be produce use an electric arc furnace , and there be work go on to ensure that the other 10 % can be . may I just remind the hon . Lady that we actually have a plan for Port Talbot ? when Tata come to we , it be look to close down Port Talbot and pull out of the United Kingdom , a move that would have cost 8 , 000 job and 12 , 500 in the wide supply chain . as a result of that , the UK Conservative Government step forward with half a billion pound of investment to support an electric arc furnace , and a furth £ 80 million to support retrain worker and infrastructure improvement in Port Talbot . we have have not one single penny from the Welsh Labour Government , who instead have decide today to prioritise spending £ 120 million on more Senedd Members . More Senedd Members or support for steelworker — I know what my priority be . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 8 May . I know the whole House will join I in congratulate John Swinney on become Scottish National party leader and Scottish First Minister . I look forward to work constructively with he to deliver for the people of Scotland . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . at last week ' s Prime Minister ' s question , I highlight the shocking rise in the number of teenager try vaping , and I ask the Prime Minister if he would take decisive action to stop vape advertising on football strip . he decline to do that . since then , I have have an exchange with the scottish chief medical officer , Professor Sir Gregor Smith , during a sitting of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill Committee , and he say : " where I become very uncomfortable , and I be not supportive , be where the massive attraction of sport company be use in a way that promote behaviour that be know to be unsafe or unhealthy . " – – [ Official Report , Tobacco and Vapes Public Bill Committee , 1 May 2024 ; c . 80 , Q11 . ] can I ask the Prime Minister again : do he still think it be right that vape company should sponsor football kit ? I be glad the hon . Lady agree with I and the Government that we should do more to tackle youth vaping , and that be why we be bring forward measure in the new Bill to restrict the availability and appeal of vape to child specifically , whether that be flavours or , indeed , marketing . as she know , advertising of vape be already heavily restrict by UK regulation , include a ban on advertising on television , radio and most place online . we have see football take positive voluntary action in the past on issue such as this , but I will say to the hon . Lady that the Government will respond to her specific amendment in the usual way . I declare that my daughter be a serve officer in the armed force . in recent week , my right hon . friend have announce plan to control welfare and get people back to work and to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , and have pass legislation to get flight off to Rwanda . do he agree with I that these be all issue that real people such as my constituent in South East Cornwall care about , and that the Leader of the opposition should do the right thing and back they ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for her local area , and can I also thank her daughter for her service in the armed force ? my hon . friend be right : I be not surprised that Labour member do not back our plan to stop the boat and I be not surprised they do not back our plan to get people into work and reform welfare , but I do think that they should do the right thing when it come to the security of our nation , and that be to back our plan to increase defence spending and give our brave armed force personnel the resource they need to keep we safe . I call the Leader of the Opposition . may I warmly welcome my hon . friend , the new Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) ? after the representation that fine town have have recently , it be good to know that it have a proper champion back at last . may I also warmly welcome the new Labour MP , my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , to these Benches ? if one week a Tory MP who be also a doctor say that the Prime Minister can not be trust with the NHS and join Labour , and the next week the Tory MP for Dover — on the frontline of the small boat crisis — say that the Prime Minister " can not be trust " with our border and join Labour , what be the point of this fail Government stagger on ? can I join the right hon . and learn Gentleman in welcome his new MP for Blackpool ? he look a lot happy than the Member sit in that spot last week . let I also join the right hon . and learn Gentleman in congratulate all new and pay tribute to all former councillor , police and crime commissioner and Mayors across the country . I hope that his new one do he as proud as I be proud of all of mine , include such great leader as Andy Street . they leave behind a strong legacy of more home , more job and more investment , in sharp contrast to the legacy leave by the last Labour Government , which be a letter joke that there be no money leave . in addition to lose two Tory mp in two week , the Prime Minister have be on the receive end of some of the big by - election swing in history . he have also lose 1 , 500 Tory councillor , half of his party ' s Mayors and a leadership election to a lettuce . how many more time do the public and his own mps need to reject he before he take the hint ? this time last year , I remind the right hon . and learn Gentleman of some advice from his own mentor , Tony Blair , who say at the time that he " can be as cocky as he like about the local election ; come a general election , policy count . " — [ Official Report , 9 May 2007 ; Vol . 460 , c . 152 . ] one year on from that advice , what have he manage ? he have £ 28 billion of tax rise , 70 new business regulation , 30 u - turn and a deputy leader under a police investigation . I be surprised that the Prime Minister bring up a police investigation ; his record be play one , lose — well , actually it be two , there be the seatbelt as well . his record be play two , lose two in relation to police investigation . the voter keep tell he that it be not good enough . instead of listen , he keep tell they that everything be fine , if only they would realise his greatness . he just do not get it , but at least after Thursday night he can go to the many place he call home and enjoy the fruit of his success . in Southampton or Downing Street , he have great labour council . at his mansion in Richmond , he can enjoy a brand - new Labour Mayor of North Yorkshire . at his pad in Kensington , he can celebrate a historic third term for the Mayor of London . now that he , too , can enjoy the benefit of this change Labour party , be he really still in such a hurry to get back to California ? I must say that I be surprised to see the right hon . and learn Gentleman in North Yorkshire , although probably not as surprised as he be when he realise he could not take the tube there . I can tell he that the people of North Yorkshire believe in hard work , secure border , low taxis and straight - talk common sense . they will not get any of that from a virtue - signal lawyer from north London . it be great to be in Northallerton , where they have just vote to reject the Prime Minister ' s proposition . he have finally find something in common with the british public : no matter where he call home , all his neighbour be back this change Labour party . they keep reject he , because they have susse he out . they know there be nothing behind the boast , the gimmick and the smug smile . he be a dodgy salesman desperate to sell they a dud . sixteen day ago , when he hold a press conference claim victory on Rwanda , he say : " the next few week will be about action … people want deed not word . " let we test that . how many small boat crossing have there be since he say that 16 day ago ? actually , just before we get on to that , the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about a change Labour party — [ interruption . ] this be important . he talk about a change Labour party ; he talk about it a lot . he also talk about his Mayor in London . just this morning , we learn that the Labour Mayor in London believe there be an " equivalence " between the brutal terrorist attack of Hamas and Israel defend itself . let I be crystal clear : there be absolutely no equivalence between a terrorist group and democratic state . will he take this opportunity to demonstrate that the Labour party have change ? will he condemn those comment from the Labour Mayor ? I know that be the last run - out before the general election , but the Prime Minister be get ahead of himself in ask I question . I notice that the Prime Minister do not even attempt to answer the question . he know the answer : since he claim victory 16 day ago , there have be a staggering 2 , 400 small boat crossing . that be a gimmick , not a deterrent , and those 2 , 400 will be add to the Tories ' asylum perma - backlog , which be forecast to rise to 100 , 000 by the end of the year . the Prime Minister pretend that he will remove they all to Rwanda , but Rwanda can take only a few hundred a year . at that rate , his grand plan would take over 300 year to remove they all . there be ten of thousand of people with their claim go unprocessed , who will be here for their entire lifetime , live in hotel at the taxpayer ' expense . it be absurd to call that anything other than an amnesty hand to they by the Tory party , isn ' t it ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman have the opportunity to condemn the comment of his Mayor — a Mayor who say that there be an " equivalence " between Hamas and Israel — and he do not do that . everyone will see : that be the change Labour party right there . since I become Prime Minister , small boat crossing be down by a third . that be because we have double National Crime Agency funding , increase enforcement rate , closed bank account , deport 24 , 000 people and process more claim . [ Official Report , 14 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) when it come to border control , there be a crucial difference between we : the Conservatives want secure border ; the right hon . and learn Gentleman be happy with open border . the whole country know that remove less than 1 % of asylum seeker be not stop the boat ; it be grant an amnesty — a Tory amnesty . if the Prime Minister think the voter be wrong , that his own mp who have join the Labour party be wrong , and that anyone believe any of the nonsense that he spout , why do he not put it to the test and call a general election ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about remove people — this be a person who campaign to stop the deportation of foreign national offender . that show how out of touch his value be with the british people . it be yet another week where we have hear nothing about the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s plan to do anything on the issue that matter to the country . meanwhile , the Government be get on with reform welfare and get people into work — he oppose it . we be control legal and illegal migration — he oppose it . and , as we hear , we be boost defence spending to strengthen our country — he oppose it . that be the difference : he snipe from the sideline ; the Conservatives be build a bright future . when it come to small boat crossing , there be a lot of talk of human right , but surely the only human right and life that matter be the life of child who be be take across the channel . in that respect , will the Government now do the only thing that will actually be a real deterrent and arrest and detain all those who land illegally on our shore and then offshore they promptly so that , once and for all , we can save life and end this cruel and callous trade ? my right hon . friend be right that these crossing be incredibly dangerous and risk people ' s life . just week ago , a seven - year - old girl die attempt a crossing . that be why , as a matter of basic compassion , we must do everything we can to break the cycle of the criminal gang . that be why we need a deterrent . that be what the National Crime Agency say , and that be how we deal with illegal migrant from Albania . it be only by remove people who should not be here that we remove the reason for they to come in the first place . that be how we will control our border . it be clear that it be only the conservative party that have a plan not only to stop the boat but to stop the tragic loss of life in the channel , too . I call the Scottish National party leader . may I begin by also congratulate the fantastic John Swinney on become Scotland ' s First Minister ? our opponent should be very careful what they wish for . as we await the imminent israeli incursion into Rafah , where 1 . 2 million people be shelter , include 600 , 000 child , it have be report that the United States have pause an arm shipment to Israel . the UK will now follow suit , will it not ? the right hon . Gentleman may not realise that the UK Government do not directly provide or ship arm to Israel . when it come to the situation in Rafah , I have be very clear that we be deeply concerned about a full military incursion , give the devastating humanitarian impact ; I have make that point specifically to Prime Minister Netanyahu whenever we have speak . I will continue to urge all side to focus on the negotiation at hand , to bring about a pause in the conflict , to release hostage and get more aid in . let we be clear : the confidence that Israel have show in its military ambition in Rafah stem from the silence of its ally on the front Benches in this place and elsewhere across the world . we all know that UK arm and tech be support Israel ' s activity in Gaza , and will be use in any attack on Rafah . know that , and the devastation that will occur , surely the time have come to end our complicity and halt arm sale to Israel . of course we take our defence export responsibility extremely seriously . that be why we operate one of the most robust licensing control regime anywhere in the world . we periodically review advice on Israel ' s commitment to international humanitarian law , and Ministers always act in accordance with that advice . that be crystal clear for the House to understand . follow the most recent assessment , our position on export licence be unchanged . I know that the right hon . Gentleman will join I in urge all party to engage in the negotiation , so that we can see a pause in fighting to get more aid in , hostage out and bring about a sustainable ceasefire in this conflict . my constituent in rural village and on the fringe of the Grimsby - Cleethorpes urban area be very concerned about overdevelopment . they recognise that highway infra - structure and public service be already overload . could my right hon . friend consider amend plan guidance , so that local plan and decision take by local planning authority be not overridden by planning inspector ? they would be greatly encourage if he would agree to meet I and my colleague from neighbouring constituency , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) , to discuss this far . my hon . friend be right that sustainable development must be at the heart of the planning system . that be why we be commit to meet housing need by build the right home in the right place , and protect the environmental asset that matter most . the national planning policy framework be clear that we should be responsive to local circumstance . I know that the local plan in my hon . friend ' s area be due for further consultation later this year , and that he will engage with that process , but I will happily meet he and colleague to discuss the situation far . the abuse suffer by 88 - year - old Ann King at the hand of staff in her care home be capture on a hidden camera . the footage be stomach churn . Ann die in October 2022 , and it take nearly a year for the Care Quality Commission to launch a criminal investigation . ann ' s child be work to protect other care home resident from be subject to such appalling abuse . her son come to see I , as his MP , to ask for my help with their campaign . will the Prime Minister join I in back Ann ' s law , a proposal for measure , include a national register , to professionalise the care workforce and hold abusive staff to account ? will he meet Ann ' s family and I to discuss this idea ? let I first extend my sympathy to Ann ' s family for what she go through . obviously that be not appropriate , and I will ensure that the Department engage with the right hon . Gentleman and Ann ' s family on the propose law . he be right to say that we should have high standard across the care industry , and we be work towards more investment to support our care home staff , make sure that they have training qualification and development , and that we have a regime that can hold everyone to account for deliver the high standard that we would all expect . do my right hon . friend agree that one of the great quality that those on these back Benches bring to Westminster be plain old - fashioned common sense ? derbyshire common sense lead the good people of Ashbourne and surround village to reject the Sadiq Khan ULEZ rule , and even the Welsh 20 mph rule . will my right hon . friend join I , and perhaps ask his neighbour the Chancellor if he will pay for the Ashbourne bypass ? I know that my hon . friend have be a dedicated campaigner for the Ashbourne bypass . the Government be commit to invest more in the midland , and in particular to put every penny of the £ 9 . 6 billion from High Speed 2 back into the local area . my hon . friend be right : we will focus on driver and their priority , rather than continue the war on motorist that be be wage by the Labour Mayor in London , but also by the Labour party in Wales , with both the ultra low emission zone and 20 mph speed limit . it be this party that be unashamedly on the side of the motorist . our cross - party child of the north all - party parliamentary group find that expectant mother be terminate want pregnancy because they could not afford another mouth to feed . recent figure show that infant and child death rate have increase in the most deprived area , and 50 child have die alone in unregulated accommodation . be this the Prime Minister ' s plan for a bright Britain in action ? obviously , what the hon . Lady have describe be a tragedy . no one want to see child grow up in those circumstance , and that be why I be proud that since 2010 , with a range of measure , the Government have oversee a significant fall in poverty , particularly child poverty . I will ensure that , for the benefit of her constituent , the hon . Lady be aware of all the support that be in place — through the Department of Health and Social Care and the Department for Work and Pensions , and through local authority — for the most vulnerable family in our community . Weston - super - Mare be a grow town , so local health service be rightly grow as well . Weston General Hospital be treat more patient for a wide variety of problem than before , GPs ' surgery be offer thousand more appointment this year than last , and our new diagnostic centre mean fast test and treatment . however , there be a fly in our NHS - prescribe ointment : dentistry be not fix yet . the new dental recovery plan be very welcome , but when will it mean appointment that Westonians can book ? our dentistry recovery plan will make dental service fast , simple and fair for patient , fund about 2 . 5 million more appointment . I be pleased to note that access be improve in my hon . friend ' s area , with nearly 10 % more child see a dentist in June last year than in the previous year , but we be go far : the new patient premium that be announce last year be ensure that more NHS dentistry will be provide , and since then , at the end of January , 500 more practice have say that they be now open to new patient . it be more than a month since the parliamentary ombudsman deliver the long - await report on pension injustice , but woman bear in the 1950 in my constituency , and indeed in every constituency across these island , be still wait to hear whether the UK Government will listen to its recommendation and deliver compensation . I be proud to see the Scottish Parliament support a motion last week call for compensation to be deliver without delay , but utterly dismay to see member of both the Conservative party and the Labour party abstain . can the Prime Minister finally tell we when the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — the WASPI woman — will receive the compensation that they rightly deserve ? I understand the strong feeling across the Chamber about this topic , and the desire for urgency in address they . however , follow the ombudsman ' s five - year investigation , it be imperative that we take the time to conduct a thorough review of the comprehensive finding that have be publish . an update will be give to the House once those finding have be fully consider . more broadly , we be commit to ensure that pensioner have the dignity and security in retirement that they deserve . most recently , we increase the state pension by £ 900 a year , thank to the triple lock . be the Prime Minister as appal as I be by report of militant civil servant and trade union political activist seek to find way not to implement the Rwanda deportation ? do he agree that if they be not prepared to implement the will of the Government and an Act of Parliament that be pass by both Houses , they should conclude that be in the civil service be perhaps not for they ? maybe they can look for alternative employment at other left - wing organisation that masquerade as be impartial . maybe they could try the BBC or " Channel 4 News " . my expectation be that civil servant will continue to be commit to support our priority of stop the boat , and will deliver , in accordance with the civil service code . my hon . friend will know that we make specific change to ensure compliance with that code as we push through with our plan . more broadly , I agree with he that we be the only party that have a plan to stop the boat . we will face down all the obstacle in our way to deliver on this crucial priority for the british people , whoever stand in our way — whether it be the Labour party or other . we will deliver for this country on this vital issue . China have now hack the datum of defence personnel , the Electoral Commission and various other public institution , and have target many member of this House , yet plan by China ' s large wind turbine manufacturer , Ming Yang Smart Energy , to build its large european facility right here in the UK advance at pace . the facility be set to be build in Scotland . give widely share concern about the involvement of hostile state such as China in the UK ' s critical national energy infrastructure , do the Prime Minister not agree that now be the time for this project to be pause and review by the Government on national security ground ? if not , what message do he think that send ? as I have say repeatedly , China be a country with different value from our , and be act in a way that be increasingly authoritarian at home and assertive abroad . it be right that we take firm step to protect ourselves against that , particularly in the area of economic security . this Government pass the National Security and Investment Act 2021 precisely so that we can screen transaction — without comment on individual one , of course — to protect this country . we have use those power , not least to block chinese investment in a sensitive semiconductor company , but also to ensure that the chinese state nuclear company have no part in the future of our nuclear plan . the hon . Gentleman can rest assure that we be alive to the challenge , and have pass law that give we the power to protect against they . five - year - old Benedict Blythe be a lovely little boy who attend a primary school in my constituency . sadly , he die of anaphylaxis , a severe allergic reaction . the coroner ' s inquest have not yet report , but on average , two child in every class have a food allergy , and more allergic reaction take place in school than in other setting outside the home . severe allergic reaction be on the rise and can be fatal , yet there be no explicit legal requirement for school to have allergy medication and an allergy policy , or for other recommend safeguard to be make available ; there be only guidance . will the Prime Minister meet I and Benedict ' s parent , Helen and Pete , so that we can discuss a way forward to ensure that child who suffer from allergy can be safe in school , include by ensure that school have an allergy policy , adrenalin pen , and staff who know how to use they ? first , may I extend my sympathy to Benedict ' s family ? it be always tragic to hear about the loss of a child . we fully understand the seriousness of severe allergy , and believe that child with medical condition should be properly support to enjoy a full education and be safe at school . there be a legal duty on the govern body of school to make arrangement for support pupil , include set out what need to be do , symptom and treatment , but I will ensure that my right hon . friend get a meeting with the Health Secretary to discuss how we could far support pupil with serious allergy . yesterday , the Chancellor confirm that it be Government policy to abolish national insurance , at a £ 46 billion annual cost , with no indication of where the money will come from . can the Prime Minister rule out far freeze in tax allowance or an 8p increase in income tax to pay for it ? that be total nonsense , and of course I rule that out . there be no unfunded policy . what we have say be that we have a long - term ambition to keep cut national insurance to end the unfairness of the double taxation on work . we will make progress towards that goal in the next Parliament , just as we already have in this one by cut national insurance by a third in six month , deliver a £ 900 tax cut , at the same time as increase investment in the NHS and increase the state pension . it be increasingly clear what this reveal : the Labour party oppose tax cut for work people . empower local pharmacy be a key part of this Government ' s plan to cut waiting list . in Guildford , we have recently lose two neighbouring pharmacy , but there be good news . I be pleased to report that , by work diligently with local pharmacist , concerned resident , the Minister and the integrated care board , I have help to secure a new pharmacy in Burpham . will my right hon . friend join I in welcome this new pharmacy and do he agree that it be vital that resident should have access to a good , efficient and , above all , local pharmacy ? I care deeply about the future of our community pharmacy , and I be pleased to hear about my hon . friend ' s success in secure a new one for her constituent , join the 10 , 500 other across the country . she be right about the important role that our local pharmacy can play , and that be why we be back they with £ 645 million of additional funding through Pharmacy First , so that people can now go straight to their pharmacist and receive treatment for seven of the most common ailment , save patient ' time and ensure that they get the care they need quick and close to home . last Friday , report major structural deficiency at Stepping Hill Hospital in Stockport . Stepping Hill ' s major out - patient building , the radiology department and the critical care unit have all be condemn . in March , I meet with senior official at Stockport NHS Trust and they be clear that a sustained lack of capital investment be the root cause of problem at my local hospital . do the Prime Minister believe that our hospital quite literally crumble be the price worth pay for 14 year of successive conservative failure ? we fully recognise the need to invest in health infrastructure across the country , include at Stepping Hill Hospital . that be why we be currently spend around £ 4 billion a year for trust to spend on necessary maintenance and repair , on top of the £ 20 billion new hospital programme and the additional funding that be put aside to deal with RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — — maintenance . the hon . Gentleman talk about a legacy of the NHS ; all he need to do be look at his party ' s record in Wales , where people be currently experience the bad A & E performance and the long wait time anywhere in Great Britain . Nottingham City Council be expect to fall short of its housing target by 6 , 000 new home . last time this happen , Rushcliffe , as a neighbouring authority , be force to take thousand of home on top of its own housing target , which lead to huge pressure on our green space and public service . can my right hon . friend reassure I and my constituent that the change we have make to the planning system will mean that this time we will be protect from labour ' s failure in Nottingham ? my hon . friend make an important point . while on this side of the House the Conservatives believe in build the right home in the right place with local people have a say , all that Labour would do be impose top - down housing target on area , decimate our precious countryside . in Nottinghamshire , as she say , we can see the difference between the well - run Conservative county council and the bankrupt Nottingham Council , which have leave resident to pick up the bill for its profligacy . untreated sewage be pump into english waterway for more than 3 . 6 million hour last year , and into the sea off Sussex beach three time in the last 24 hour alone , yet since privatisation the water company have be allow to rack up debt of over £ 64 billion and their shareholder have be allow to pocket £ 78 billion in dividend . the majority of the public , include 58 % of conservative supporter and 80 % of Labour supporter , want to turf out of the profiteer polluter . they want water bring back into public hand . when be the Prime Minister go to listen to they and end the legalised scam of privatisation ? our plan to tackle this go far than those of any previous Government . in fact , we now monitor 100 % of overflow , up from just 7 % under the Labour party ; we be invest a record £ 56 billion into our water infrastructure ; and we have enshrine strict target in law and introduce unlimited fine for water company , hold they and their boss to account . it be crystal clear . the record show that only one party have a clear plan to tackle this issue for the environment : the conservative party . everybody know that Stockton be a great place with great people and a great football team . my right hon . friend recently visit the mighty Stockton Town to see the incredible work they do in the local community , and he hear about their promotion battle . I be sure that he will want to join I in congratulate Micky Dunwell and the mighty Anchors on their promotion . it be fantastic to visit Stockton Town football club with my hon . friend , who be a brilliant champion for his local community , which I see at first hand on a weekly basis . I join he in congratulate everyone at the club on their well - deserve promotion , and I hope that some of their good luck rub off on Southampton in the come week . end of Custody Supervised licence : extension ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Justice if he will make a statement on the expansion of the end of custody supervise licence scheme . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question . protect the public be our no . 1 priority , so it be right that we take tough and decisive action to keep put the most serious offender behind bar , and for long , as the public rightly expect . we be carry out the big prison expansion programme since the victorian era , and we be ramp up removal of foreign national offender . we have a duty to ensure that the prison system continue to operate safely and effectively , with offender hold in safe and decent condition . this mean ensure that no prison exceed a safe maximum operating limit . ECSL allow low - level offender to be release before their automatic release date . in March , the Lord Chancellor state that we will " work with the police , prison and probation leader to make further adjustment as require . " — [ Official Report , 12 March 2024 ; Vol . 747 , c . 157 . ] this extension be in line with what he say . ECSL operate only when absolutely necessary and be keep under constant review . I know that many member of this House will be concern about the early release of offender into the community , but I make it clear that only offender who would soon be release anyway will be consider for ECSL . we have put in place safeguard , include that the Prison Service retain the discretion to prevent the ecsl release of any offender where early release present a high risk than if they be release at their automatic release date . there be strict eligibility criterion , and anyone convict of a sexual offence , a terrorist offence or a serious violence offence be rule out . public safety will always be our no . 1 priority , and all those release will still be subject to probation supervision and stringent licence condition . here we go again . never in this country have a Government be force to release prisoner more than two month early . this be the price that the public be pay for a justice system in crisis and a Government in freefall . the early release scheme have now undergo three major extension in just six month : it be quietly start in October , when the Government begin release prisoner up to 18 day early ; in March it be slip out that it have be expand from 18 to 60 day ; and now it have emerge through a medium leak that it have be extend once again , this time to 70 day . bad of all , the Government be do all of this in secret . they have not respond to any freedom of information request , parliamentary question or even the Justice Committee with any useful detail about this scheme . the Government be release prisoner but not the fact . the strategy be clear for all to see : say nothing , try to get away with it and get to the other side of the general election . it be shameless and , frankly , a disgrace . the public and this House rightly expect the Minister to be transparent and honest , so let we see whether he will answer these basic and simple question . why the increase of early release to 70 day ? how many offender have be release in the six month since the scheme become operational ? how will they ensure that the probation service have the time and resource to adequately assess risk and protect the public ? and will he give a guarantee to the House today that this secretive scheme will not be extend again ? I be grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for her question and would gently say a number of thing to she . first , she suggest we be sneak this out in October and March ; that include statement to this House and be entirely transparent . on the hon . Lady ' s party ' s record , it operate an early release scheme for three year between 2007 and 2010 , which leave she on rather shaky ground . she talk about a medium leak . this be an operational decision with operational guidance send out to his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service and prison governor as well as other stakeholder , include , if I recall correctly , the probation union , for a minor change that be already reflect in the point make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State for Justice in March to this House . the hon . Lady talk about datum . the Secretary of State have be consistently clear that we will publish the datum on an annualise basis , in exactly the same way as we do , for example , for death in custody and supplementary breakdown of the prison population . we have be clear that we will always ensure that the prison system have the space for the court to be able to send people to prison . we be make an appropriate operational decision to ensure that continue to be the case . the hon . Lady also rightly ask about probation , and I suspect that in our exchange the one thing on which we might find ourselves in agreement be pay tribute to those who work in our probation service . as she will know , since 2021 we have increase the budget for the service by £ 155 million , with 4 , 000 additional probation officer in training . we have work with the leadership of our probation service on this scheme and the probation union be one of the body we notify on the change to the operational guidance . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . this be a perfectly rational , sensible and pragmatic response to the pressure in our prison , and the Minister should take credit for it . however , I do ask he to reconsider the point about the transparency of datum — precisely because it be a sensible thing to do , there be no reason why we should not release the figure in well time . but the underlying problem , which all party in this House must face up to , be that the pressure in our prison , to which the Justice Committee have repeatedly refer , stem from decade of underfunding by government of all party ? prison cost £ 46 , 000 - plus per year for each place , so it be a very expensive way of deal with people , and not always the good mean for handle low - level offender . may we have a more intelligent debate on sentencing and the purpose of prison , and perhaps we could start with the Minister commit to bring back the sentencing Bill , which would enable we to have a more nuanced approach ? I be grateful to my hon . and learn Friend for his question . he rightly highlight the ongoing capacity challenge and a number of the driver of those , one be that the average custodial sentence in this country have go up from 14 month to about 21 . in addition , the remand population have go up from about 9 , 000 to some 16 , 500 , partly as a result of the covid backlog in the court system and partly as a result of the Bar strike . on the publication of datum , I gently and respectfully refer he to the answer I give to his Committee and at the Dispatch Box just now . it be important that alongside recognise the pressure the system be under , we be take step to increase capacity , both by increase the removal of foreign national offender and do it at a fast rate , and through have build almost 6 , 000 new prison place . that be in stark contrast to the record of the Labour party , which build not one of the 7 , 500 Titan prison place . court backlog be sky high ; prison be dangerously close to capacity , which be why this policy have to be implement ; and the Government be claim , as the Minister have just do , to be carry out a big prison expansion programme , yet their record be appalling . in 2016 , in response to the Taylor review , the Government commit to build two secure school for young offender . since then , the budget have spiral out of control and not one of those school have open . do this not all just prove that the Conservatives can not be trust with our justice system ? the hon . Lady know that I have a huge amount of respect for she , but even by Lib Dem standard that be stretch the bound of credibility a little , not least because , as she will be aware , we have build two new prison . we also have one in construction and two that have complete planning , and one that be subject to a planning appeal . as for the secure school , she should look forward to its opening in a matter of day . will my right hon . friend expand a little on the great improvement be make to increase capacity ? will he tell we a little more about the progress on ensure that more foreign national offender be remove to their own country ? will he expand a little , as this seem to be badly understand by Opposition Members from all party , on quite how much of a prison building programme the Government have ? will he say something on the number of prison and the number of space that that will create , and on the consequent prospect for the rehabilitation of offender and , in time , have few victim of crime ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that and I pay tribute to his work in the justice system not only in this House , but prior to his be a member of it . I believe — I will , of course , correct this if I be slightly out — that about 16 , 000 fno have now be remove . it be timely that as I say that , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary appear in the Chamber , so that I can pay tribute to he and his Department for their work on deliver that . on prison place , I set out to the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) the progress on the six new prison . alongside that , we have build a vast number of rapid deployment cell and new house block , so we be expand our prison capacity rapidly . as I say , that stand in stark contrast to the failure to deliver on the Titan prison place by the Labour party . Napo have say that " the ECSL scheme be an unmitigated failure and have not only be extend without parliamentary scrutiny but represent an increase risk to public safety " . the Secretary of State know that our probation service be in crisis and can not cope without a significant increase in support and resource . will the Government be provide that ? I be very grateful to the hon . Lady . as I say to the shadow Secretary of State , I have great respect for the work do by those in our probation service . indeed , I have meet the probation union in the past . although we do not always agree , I have huge respect for the work those union do in represent their member . I would make two point . first , to say that it be do without scrutiny in this House stretch the bound of credibility . there have be two statement by the Secretary of State and multiple oral parliamentary question session , and I have undergo a polite but thorough grilling at the Justice Committee by its Chair . I do not think it stack up to say that this have not be subject to scrutiny . on the hon . Lady ' s underlying point , I set out early that we be invest in probation . there be £ 155 million of additional investment a year since 2021 and there be 4 , 000 more probation officer and staff in training . a moment ago , the Minister set out the significant increase in the number of people be hold on remand — I think he say it have increase from 9 , 000 to 16 , 000 . what work be the Government do to address court backlog ? what step be be take to look at other route for monitor people who be on remand , who could perhaps serve their remand period in the community under a tagging system ? to correct myself , there be now 16 , 500 people on remand in the prison population . on court backlog , we have increase the investment in our court and the number of sit day , and we be see progress . obviously , court take the decision on whether to remand or bail someone , and we can help that process by give the court the information they need . we continue to invest in the Bail Information Service , which give sentencer reassurance about the information they need to make a judgment call about whether someone be safe to be bail . we be increase our investment in the community accommodation service , so that when someone be not bail because they do not have a stable address , there be an increase opportunity for they to have an address , give sentencer the opportunity to bail they . as the Minister and the Chair of the Justice Committee know , I have be in the House long enough to know when something be a stick plaster . perhaps the extension be necessary , but it be a stick plaster . how many queen ' s Speeches since 2010 have include a thorough look at the justice system with a royal commission ? that have never happen . we all know that building prison do not solve the crisis . we need radical reform of the whole justice system , which will need extra resource and real motivation from an incoming Labour Government . do the Minister agree with I ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , with whom I have occasionally tussle across the Chamber . I agree with some of what he say . he will not be surprised that I do not agree with his last statement because , judge by the track record up to 2010 , I fear it would be another case of be let down by Labour . I be grateful for his typically thoughtful comment and his look at the big picture behind the challenge we face . it be right that we be put those who commit the most serious crime in prison for long to protect society and ensure they pay their debt to society , but it be also important that we look at how we rehabilitate people when they be in prison . we all want those who have serve their time to come out and live their life , within bound , in the community , and to be constructive and positive contributor to society . that be why we be focus on provide education in prison and get people into employment . I be grateful to the Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , for his work and focus on that area , both when he be Secretary of State for Education and as my predecessor . there be currently measure before Parliament , for example in the Sentencing Bill , that offer the House an opportunity to think about other way to do thing . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Mr Llefarydd . this announcement come after nine prisoner have recently lose their life in HMP Parc in Bridgend . the Ministry of Justice say it will not step in . a private prison in Wales be an unaccountable anomaly that fail everyone — victim and prisoner alike . while we await the long anticipate devolution of justice , will the Minister tell I why , after 25 year , there be still no clarity over which ombudsman be responsible for health in Parc ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady . we may disagree in our view on the devolution of justice to Wales , but she raise an important issue about the death in the past few month in HMP and YOI Parc . I visit Parc recently and speak to the governor and director , those in custody and those work at Parc . I have to be cautious about what I say , give that the matter will be before the coroner and the ombudsman . I will be appear before the Welsh Affairs Committee next week , when I suspect some of the issue will be debate . I be happy to have a discussion with the right hon . Lady , but it be right that I do not stray at the Dispatch Box when these matter be before the coroner and the ombudsman . I hope the Minister will be happy to have a discussion with the MP whose constituency the prison be in , as well . I thank the Minister for his answer to all the question . the scheme be initially design to allow short - term early release by a matter of day , yet some release be now early by some 70 day . do the Minister understand why victim of crime be anxious that so - call " soft crime " criminal be get an easy time ? victim of crime be tell that perpetrator have be release early , so the victim can prepare themselves to see those perpetrator down the town or at the local supermarket , for example , which can be extremely disconcerting , even if it be not unexpected . Mr Speaker , I reassure you that I be due to be meet the Member whose constituency HMP Parc be in at this moment in time , but I be here at the Dispatch Box . the meeting have be reschedule and there be a date in the diary . as I promise at the last oral question , that meeting have be arrange . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be right to highlight that point . our ecsl protection be significantly more stringent than those use by the Labour party when it run its scheme for three year . unlike its scheme , our allow governor to veto the release of any prisoner when they think early release will create a risk to victim . there be a number of exemption from the scheme and it allow for rigorous condition to be place on the release licence , be it tag , exclusion zone or curfew . prisoner will be well aware that if they breach those condition , which be put in place to protect victim , they will hear the clang of the prison gate and be recall . Russia with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement to the House regard measure that his Majesty ' s Government will take in response to the reckless and dangerous activity of the russian Government across Europe and now suspect here in the UK . as be report on Friday 26 April , five individual have be charge in connection with an investigation into alleged offence under the National Security Act 2023 , as part of a counter - terrorism policing investigation . the offence relate to what be widely report by the medium as a suspect arson attack on a Ukraine - link business in the UK . the Crown Prosecution Service have confirm that the charge relate to alleged " hostile activity in the UK in order to benefit a foreign state — namely Russia . " I pay tribute to our law enforcement agency for their quick and professional work to ensure these charge be bring . they be the first charge to be bring under the new National Security Act . measure that this Government bring forward and this House pass be already be use to keep our country safe . I thank the emergency service who respond to the fire at a commercial property in London where the suspect activity take place . the charge be serious and it be only through good fortune that nobody be hurt . I reassure the House that public safety be of the utmost importance , which be why the law enforcement response have be quick and decisive . as member will appreciate , I must not say anything far on this specific case , or any related case , to avoid prejudice the outcome of ongoing criminal proceeding . I ask the House to respect that and to avoid use the debate to add to speculation about the incident . it be vital that justice run its course . however , I wish to highlight to the House a pattern of suspect russian activity that we be see across Europe . this be not the first time that we have uncover malign activity in the UK that be seemingly link to Russia in the past year . in September , five bulgarian national be charge with conspire to commit espionage activity in the UK on behalf of Russia . a sixth individual be later charge and legal proceeding against all six be ongoing . there be a much broad pattern of russian malign activity across Europe . these include : plan for sabotage activity against military aid for Ukraine in Germany and in Poland ; espionage in Bulgaria and in Italy ; cyber - attack and disinformation activity ; air space violation ; and gp jam with impact on civil aviation . over a number of year , we have witness Russia and its intelligence service engage in yet more open and brazen attempt to undermine our security , harm our people and interfere in our democracy . such attempt involve Litvinenko , Georgia , Crimea , Salisbury , Ukraine and activity across Europe . since the illegal invasion of Ukraine , the rhetoric , threat and accusation from Russia have only increase , as Putin seek to justify the death and destruction that he have bring to the ukrainian people . these activity bear all the hallmark of a deliberate campaign by Russia design to " to bring the war home " across Europe , and to undermine our collective resolve to support Ukraine in its fight . it will not work . as the Prime Minister say in Poland last month , we be at a turning point for european security . with our ally , we will stand firm in the face of russian threat to the UK and to our way of life . it be why , after Salisbury , we take measure with our partner to make Europe a hard operating environment for russian intelligence service , include the expulsion of 23 undeclared russian intelligence officer from the UK . it be also why the UK have announce the big strengthening of the UK ' s national defence in a generation , with a fully fund plan to grow the defence budget to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 . the UK and our ally will not falter in our support for Ukraine , because it be existential to the security of Europe . this be why the Prime Minister have also announce an uplift in UK military aid to Ukraine , bring it to £ 3 billion this year , and have commit to that level of support every year until the end of the decade , or long if it be sadly still require . we have sanction more than 1 , 700 individual , over 90 % of the russian banking sector , and more than 130 oligarch and family member , with a combine net worth of £ 147 billion at the time of the invasion . as of October , over £ 22 billion - worth of russian asset be report frozen as a result of UK sanction . these asset can no long be take back to Russia to fund Putin ' s war machine . we consider Russia ' s campaign to undermine our support for Ukraine as unacceptable and it be destine to fail . we must wait for the ongoing criminal case across Europe , include here in the UK , to conclude , but give these allegation , the Government will not wait to take further action to send a strong deterrence message to Russia and to far reduce the ability of the russian intelligence service to threaten the UK . that be why today , in conjunction with my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary , I be announce a package of measure to make it clear to Russia that we will not tolerate such apparent escalation . I can tell the House that we will : expel the russian defence attach é , an undeclared military intelligence officer ; remove diplomatic premise status from several Russian - own property in the UK , include Seacox House , a Russia - own property in Sussex , and the trade and defence section in Highgate , which we believe have be use for intelligence purpose ; and impose new restriction on russian diplomatic visa , include cap the length of time that russian diplomat can spend in the UK . the measure that we and our international partner have take in recent year have already make the UK an extremely challenging operate environment for the russian intelligence service . these further measure will serve only to strengthen our resilience to the russian threat . our NATO ally share our view of Russia ' s allege behaviour , as see in the North Atlantic Council statement of last week . Russia have fail to provide any explanation of these event . in the come day , we should expect accusation of Russophobia , conspiracy theory , and hysteria from the russian Government . that be not new and the british people and the British Government will not fall for it and will not be take for fool by Putin ' s bot , troll and lackey . Russia ' s explanation be totally inadequate ; our response will be resolute and firm . our message to Russia be clear : stop this illegal war ; withdraw your troop from Ukraine ; and cease your malign activity . I commend this statement to the House . as the Secretary of State himself note at the beginning of his statement , he have refer to a live case . this case be sub judice and I ask other member not to refer to it in their question . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of the statement . it be the first job of any Government to keep our country safe from those who wish to do we harm , not least those who wish to undermine our democracy and everything that we stand for . we pay tribute to the remarkable work of our intelligence and security service and our law enforcement agency — at home and abroad — which strain every sinew to keep we safe . we will always work with the Government on those national security issue . the arson attack that the Home Secretary describe be a very serious one . the charge now lay be important . we support the work of law enforcement in this case , and it be immensely important that nothing be do to cut across that criminal justice case . I simply ask for the Home Secretary ' s reassurance that a investigation be under way not just into the specific offence , but into the wide context and any wide threat to our national security that might be link with this incident . the Home Secretary have be clear in link these charge to Russia and we echo his strong condemnation of russian interference and hostile activity here in the UK and throughout Europe . repeatedly , we have see a brazen disregard by Russia for the rule of law , for the UK , for our ally and for our domestic security . as my right hon . friend , the shadow Secretaries of State for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and for Defence have make clear , we stand shoulder to shoulder with the Government in our support for Ukraine . any change in Government will not change that strong cross - party support , as we stand with our ally . Putin must be defeat in Ukraine , and Britain must stand four - square behind our ukrainian friend . Russia under Putin be a long - term , generational threat to the security of Europe , which require a long - term response . as my right hon . friend the shadow Defence Secretary say just yesterday , the defence of the UK start in Ukraine , but as the Home Secretary have make clear , these challenge be also to our homeland security , which be why we support wholeheartedly the measure that the Home Secretary set out today . just as we work on a cross - party basis with the Government to pass the National Security Act 2023 , so we will work closely with they in go far . may I ask the Home Secretary a few further question about these and any further measure that the Government may be able to take and ask he whether he expect there to be a diplomatic response from Russia ? as we see in Salisbury to an appalling extent , there be a willingness of russian - sponsor actor to put the safety of british citizen and british resident at risk through cyber - threat — threat to undermine our democracy and our economy . I be concerned that we have know about the scale of these threat for some time , and that , in some area , we have be too slow to respond . the Home Secretary have be too slow to rid the UK of illicit finance . he will know that concern have be raise about prohibit import of russian - origin oil through third country make their way to UK shore . can he tell I what action be be take to ensure that sanction be be enforce ? the Home Secretary will know that there be real concern that the UK be still too easy for lawyer and accountant and for the laundering of russian money through the UK that potentially aid and abet Putin ' s war . the US have seize huge amount of russian - relate asset as part of the sanction evasion and charge more than 70 individual in that regard . can he confirm that no one have yet be charge with sanction evasion in the US and set out what be be do to address the issue ? the Government say that in principle they support the seizing of russian asset to fund the reconstruction of Ukraine , but there have be no proposal to take that forward . will the Home Secretary tell we what be happen there ? we have also still not have a full account of the scale of risk from golden visa . he will know , too , that there be threat to our democracy . the work of the defend democracy taskforce be far too limited . while the Security Minister be work on that , what engagement have the Home Secretary have , and have it be discuss at the National Security Council ? finally , the update to the Government ' s integrated review warn in March last year that " the transition into a multipolar , fragmented and contested world have happen more quickly and definitively than anticipate . " from the iranian - sponsor kidnap and kill threat on UK soil to the repression of Hong Kong protester outside the chinese consulate in Manchester , the UK have undergo , because of behaviour not just from Russia but more widely , a fundamental shift in the threat landscape , as increasingly aggressive state actor feel emboldened to target the UK , often in co - operation with serious and organised crime . I urge the Home Secretary to look at the work that be do after the huge shift in the terror threat that we face follow 9 / 11 and 7 / 7 to draw up the Contest strategy . we do not have a similar strategy for state actor and state - sponsor threat . the work be far too fragmented . the Labour party would like to see a comprehensive equivalent to Contest . I urge he to look again at that . we will work with he on that too . I thank the right hon . Lady for her party ' s commitment to the ongoing support for Ukraine ' s self - defence . she be right to read that into the record . there be no doubt about her commitment among Government Members . I reassure she that we do look at the wide threat emanate from Russia . we liaise closely with our international partner . we suspect that other country in the coalition of support for Ukraine be be target by Russia . those country will take discrete , domestic action , but I draw the House ' s attention to the shared commitment set out in the North Atlantic Council statement . I do not have the precise quote in front of I , but from memory it say that nation will take both individual and collective action . our response be calibrate . it be design to send a very clear message , as well as hamper Russia ' s ability to conduct espionage here in the UK . we will look closely at Russia ' s response and whether it seek to escalate matter . we will always ensure that we protect our ability to have line of communication with Russia , even during these most challenging of time . route for de - escalation , error avoidance and the avoidance of miscalculation be very important . we recognise that , and I believe that Putin ' s regime in Moscow recognise that . we will seek to maintain line of communication , even while we take these decisive action . with regard to the extensive sanction , we move quickly , in concert with our international friend and ally . those sanction be have an effect . of course Russia seek to evade sanction where it can . while sanction enforcement be primarily the responsibility of the Treasury , it be a cross - government piece of work . all part of Government — this be very much the case when I be Foreign Secretary , speak with our international counterpart and interlocutor — try to close off opportunity for sanction evasion . the defend democracy taskforce be incredibly important , particularly as we head towards a general election . we will of course adapt , and seek to work cross - party , because it be in all our interest that we defend democracy . I will continue to ensure that both the Security Minister and I work closely with the shadow Front Bench and other opposition party ' front - Bench team to protect something that be incredibly valuable . I welcome the update from the Secretary of State . the United Kingdom have lead the world in support Ukraine — militarily , economically and diplomatically . our key ally , the United States , have introduce legislation , put forward by Congressman French Hill , my counterpart in the british - american parliamentary group , on seize russian asset and use they to rebuild Ukraine . I introduce a similar Bill in Parliament , which be due for a second reading on 17 May , and I have write to the Foreign Secretary about that . will the Home Secretary clarify whether the United Kingdom will support the measure that the United States have introduce ? it be crucial that we do everything that we can to cut off Putin ' s finance and ensure that he pay for the reconstruction of Ukraine . we work very closely with our international ally to put pressure on the russian regime . we will look closely at the detail of the proposal go through the United States system . there be a very big difference between freeze and seize of asset . go from one to the other would need close international co - operation and co - ordination to ensure that we always act within the rule of law . we do not want to inadvertently find ourselves on the receive end of criticism from a regime such as Putin ' s that we be step outside the bound of international law , but we have make it clear that we will be incredibly imaginative and will work hard to ensure that the regime and people who have fund the brutal attack on Ukraine be also those who fund the rebuilding of Ukraine . we will work with our international partner to ensure that be the reality . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of his statement . like he , I pay tribute to those in law enforcement who work so diligently to counter these type of threat , which be extremely well know , and understand right across Europe . disinformation and other type of hybrid threat be now a feature of democratic life in this country and elsewhere . we need a comprehensive sea change in how we approach that threat — a new whole - of - society approach to deal with hybrid threat . I be fine to support the Government ' s increase in defence spending , but what we really need be new thinking , new doctrine and new institution in order to compete against threat that be ever evolve , become more sophisticated , more aggressive , and extremely well funded . I will focus in particular on the threat of disinformation , especially because we be in an election year . the Government use to provide Parliament — I can not quite recall when this stop — with a six - monthly update on the threat pose by Daesh . can we have a similar type of statement on hostile disinformation — a write statement to Parliament on a regular basis , inform member of where the threat be and what be be do to meet it ? I echo the comment about press the government to ensure that sanctioned money be convert into ukrainian hryvnia to allow that country to rebuild . I will not press the Home Secretary on that any far — he know our view — but while I welcome the seizure of the asset that he mention and the expulsion of the defence attach é , I can tell he that there be ton of asset in Scotland , include land , estate and much else , that could also be seize . if he choose to look into that any far , he will certainly have our support . it be important that we be precise in our use of language . the russian asset have be sanction and frozen , and there be an important difference between freeze and seize . as far as I be aware , no one have seize or liquidate russian asset . however , of course we abide by our commitment to ensure that the people who fund the brutality fund the reconstruction . we be absolutely committed to that . I have take note of the hon . Gentleman ' s point about regular update , particularly as disinformation and distortion of our democracy and society have a more direct and immediate effect in the UK than perhaps the activity of Daesh do . I will take on board the practicality of how much detail we might be able to put in the public domain , but the Government have set aside significant amount of money to the Defending Democracy Taskforce and the workstream that flow out from that , to help parliamentarian and candidate at the forthcoming election to defend themselves both physically and digitally against assault that might come for they . we be look at way to ensure that that be as effective as possible . with regard to the point he make about international co - operation , of course we will continue to work closely with our ally ; our self - defence have to be collective if it be to be fully effective . I wholeheartedly support every word the Home Secretary have say today . he be right that Putin have be engage now for at least 10 year — arguably long — in a sustained , hostile and malign set of action against the UK and our ally . on occasion where we have not be as overt in our opposition , I think he have take advantage , so I be glad that the Home Secretary have take this action . he know all the thing I will ask about : why be there still russian oil come into the UK ? why be Russia still export the same amount of oil as it do before sanction be introduce ? why have we still not go as far as the Americans and Canadians in seek not just to freeze , but to seize russian state asset so that they can be use for the development of Ukraine ? why have the Abramovich money still not go to Ukraine ? that would be more than £ 3 billion , more than the amount the UK have so far devoted . finally , can he say a word about Vladimir Kara - Murza , a man many of we have meet ? he be very brave and we want to make sure that the UK Government be do everything in their power to ensure that he be protect in Russia . the hon . Gentleman have ask a number of question , some of which fall within the remit of the Foreign Secretary ; the Deputy Foreign Secretary will answer in this House on the Foreign Secretary ' s behalf , but I can let the hon . Gentleman know that the answer that I and the Foreign Office have previously give he remain unchanged . we work with our international partner , because both sanction evasion and the fight against it be by nature international act . as I say , enforcement be predominantly a Treasury competency and the international co - operation fall within the remit of the fcdo , but we all work to ensure that sanction evasion do not happen . I have to correct the hon . Gentleman . although a number of country be investigate what a regime for the seizure and liquidation of russian asset might look like , and we will continue to work with our international partner to explore way of ensure that the people who pay for the brutality pay for the rebuilding , it be not accurate to say that other country have seize and liquidate russian asset . may I say what a pleasure it be to see that we be take this seriously ? the word of the Home Secretary fill I with renew optimism , because we need both optimism and action . do he agree that we can never underrate the Russians and Vladimir Putin ? the fact be that they be very clever ; they be use both financial strategy and dupe in Europe and other place to channel their influence . we must be wary at every level . do the Home Secretary think our intelligence service be equip to cope with the real challenge that we now face from Russia , and indeed from China ? have he be pick up what I be pick up from a lot of my old friend in Washington ? not only be they very disturbed about russian influence on american election , but I have hear very strong information that they believe that some of the influence be come from Russia via London and from the United Kingdom . that be a real problem . the Home Secretary know I have a bee in my bonnet about this , but there be people in this Parliament who have be name as very close to Russia . we have a member of the House of Lords feature in a main article in the Times only two week ago . surely we must make our House and our Parliament as clean and above board as possible , and if there be such group or individual in this place , we should know about it . I presume there be a question ? the hon . Gentleman speak with great knowledge and passion about these important issue . he will of course understand that I will not go into detail about intelligence and security matter , but I can reassure he and the House that our intelligence service , the external - face service and our security service , be incredibly effective . they be without doubt amongst the good in the world , and I would — perhaps rather arrogantly — suggest that they be the good in the world . in my experience both as Home Secretary and in my former role as Foreign Secretary , I have see the positive diplomatic influence that our agency exert on our behalf ; they be regard very highly by our ally and international partner . without go into detail , I hope that he and the House can feel reassure that we be in good hand . however , we must recognise that , as the hon . Gentleman have say , Russia take pride in its long history of disinformation , propaganda and kompromat . it wear that history as a badge of honour and it be constantly evolve its threat towards we , so we have to constantly evolve our defence . I can reassure he that we be do that ; the National Security Act 2023 be part of that , but that we reserve the right to take further action , be Russia to be foolish enough to escalate or to attempt once again the action that we believe it have take in our country . neither prosecution nor penalty have be apply to those import russian oil that be refine in , and brand as come from , India and other country . at the same time , the threat of closure hang over Grangemouth refinery . the world know that this activity be ongoing , and Grangemouth be aware of the threat face it and industrialisation in Scotland . be it not time the Minister speak to colleague to ensure that not just state security , but energy security be consider , that our refinery capacity remain in Scotland and that , at the same time , those profit from bring in russian oil be prosecute ? this Government be commit to ensure security . while they have not be universally applaud , the licence that we have award to ensure that there be a vibrant hydrocarbon industry in Scotland be important for job , for the scottish economy , for the UK economy and for our energy security . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman and the House that energy security will remain at the forefront of our mind . on sanction evasion — particularly oil and gas sanction — I assure he that my noble friend Lord Cameron , as I do when I be Foreign Secretary , raise these issue internationally with those country still trade with Russia , at every opportunity . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and very much welcome his clear commitment , which encourage all of we in this House and across this great nation . bear in mind the overnight raid on Ukraine ' s energy facility and the continue aggression carry out while our eye be turn towards the middle east , do he not believe that we must send the swift and strong message to Putin that we be approach the point when decisive action must be take by the ally , and that we have both the capacity and the will to intervene against the despicable war be wage against the ukrainian people ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point that I want to reinforce . it be quite clear that Vladimir Putin think that the UK and our wide ally would be either distract or dissuade from support Ukraine when he initiate his full - scale invasion . nothing could have be far from the truth . if he think that the evolve situation in Gaza — the terrorist attack against Israel and Israel ' s military action to defend itself — would distract we from our support for Ukraine or our self - defence against russian malign activity , he be again mistaken . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman and the House that , although of course we be very focused on the situation in Gaza , south - west Israel and the wide middle east region , we will not lose sight of our commitment to the Ukrainians in their self - defence and to re - establish the fact that national border can not be redrawn by force . passport e - Gates Network Outage with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement about disruption at the border . at around a quarter to eight last night , the Home Office become aware of a significant IT outage . investigation determine that the incident be cause by technical issue within the Home Office network . the relevant team quickly swing into action and a technical response be under way within six minute . once the fault be identify , official work closely with partner to rectify the problem and restore service . I join a gold call with the lead official at midnight last night , and the issue be resolve shortly before half - past midnight . my information this morning be that all impact system have be restore and the incident have be formally close , with all due diligence check complete . at this stage , I can assure the House and the wide public that all security check be maintain throughout . border security be not compromise at any point , and there be no indication of malicious cyber - activity . Police access to operational system be unaffected . as a result of the outage , there be delay at some airport , as member will be aware . the queue remain manageable and within health and safety parameter . staff on the ground support passenger , include through the provision of water , and ensure that welfare need be meet . although undoubtedly inconvenient , the delay be necessary to maintain the integrity of our border . that be not to minimise the impact of the disruption ; I realise that it will have be frustrating for all those affect . I offer my thank to passenger for their patience as urgent activity be mount to resolve the incident . I also place on record my gratitude to all the personnel who be involve in the response , include staff within the Home Office and Border Force , and at airport . I realise that a number of question will arise from this occurrence . I will , of course , do my utmost to provide as much information as possible , with the caveat that detailed work to understand the circumstance be ongoing . as the House and the public would expect , comprehensive activity to ascertain all relevant information about what happen will be undertake in earnest in the come day . any incident involve our border system cause concern — that be perfectly understandable . it be worth put this into context , however . Border Force facilitate over 132 million passenger arrival last year , consistently process over 90 % of passenger within service standard . as I have say , security be maintain at all time , an urgent response be mount , and the issue be fully resolve in a matter of hour . none the less , I sincerely apologise for the disruption that occur . I can assure the House that the Home Secretary and I will be unswerve in our determination to ensure that every possible lesson be learn and that this do not happen again , and I know that will be the objective of everyone across the Home Office . the security , integrity and effectiveness of the UK border be paramount . it be my foremost priority , and will be for the entirety of the time that I have in this role . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his statement and for advance sight of it . I join he in pay tribute to the staff who respond swiftly to resolve last night ' s e - gate network outage , whose action should be commend . it be also right to pay tribute , as he do , to the passenger who wait patiently for hour — some after very long flight . our border security be not and should not be a dividing issue . the Minister have do the right thing by come to the House today with the aim of provide clarity and reassurance on this extremely important matter . however , I be sure that the House will agree that the chaotic scene across many of the UK ' s major airport last night be unacceptable , not least because e - gate have fail on several occasion in recent year . the system collapse at the start of the late May bank holiday weekend in 2023 because of a fail system upgrade , and technical issue in 2021 cause the gate to fail three time in two month . that be unacceptable , and it bring into sharp focus how the current high - capacity e - gate system be no long reliable enough and risk far damage public trust in the Government ' s management of our border security . furthermore , although the Minister have make it clear that last night ' s e - gate failure be down to technical issue rather than malign activity , the Home Office and Border Force must make every effort to ensure that any such technical issue do not expose vulnerability in the system that could be exploit by our adversary , be they state or non - state malign actor . Britain ' s border system should at all time allow lawful entry into our country and stop illegal entry . the safety and security of our country depend on it . I would be grateful if the Minister answer the follow question . first , at this stage , be he able to confirm whether the same technical issue responsible for previous e - gate failure be behind last night ' s event ? if so , what urgent action will be take to ensure that it be finally resolve ? secondly , do he believe that the contingency plan for a national e - gate failure work last night , and what do he deem to be an acceptable wait time for processing entry into the UK when e - gates fail ? thirdly , be he able to share figure on how many Border Force officer be redirect from other vital duty to manually process entry in the UK last night , and be there backlog in other part of the border system as a result ? while he be answer question about mobility and security at the border , can the Minister give a guarantee that full preparation be in place at Dover to avoid queue when the european entry and exit check be introduce in the autumn ? finally , will he take this opportunity to give an assurance that no other national e - gate failure will happen on his watch ? I hope that the Minister will take those question in the constructive spirit in which they be intend . if he be not able to answer they today , will he write to my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , and to I ? there can not be another repeat of the chaos see at Britain ' s border last night . the Government must do everything they can to resolve these persistent problem for once and for all . the public must have faith that the UK ' s border security system still work . I be very grateful to the shadow Minister for the tone with which he have approach today ' s statement and the response on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition . I reiterate the thank and appreciation that be reflect in his remark on Border Force staff and the team within the airport , who work alongside the airline to support passenger during this period of disruption . again , I place on record my sincere apology to all passenger who be affect by this issue last night . I can understand their frustration , and I sincerely apologise for it . the hon . Gentleman specifically ask whether the contingency plan that be in place work . of course , we will always learn lesson from contingency , evolve those model and make sure we be responsive to feedback . however , I think it be fair to say that overall , the contingency plan do work last night , with that strong partnership underpin they — work with the airline and airport , with leadership from Border Force team . he also ask whether border security be compromise . I can confirm that it be not : proper check be undertake in the way that we would expect , just not in the automate manner that people would wish to see , with great manual processing of case but rely on the underlie system . again , that demonstrate that the contingency plan that we put in place for incident such as this one be robust and do work . the response be trigger within six minute ; the operational contingency then begin within an hour . that have subsequently be assure as well , to ensure that the integrity of the border be maintain at all time . turn to the security breach aspect of this issue , let I again be clear that this be not a cyber - attack , but the hon . Gentleman be right about the need for we always to be vigilant when it come to border security and make sure that the IT system that underpin it be able to withstand those sort of pressure . we continue to factor that into the work that we be take forward through our future border endeavour . when it come to the root cause of what have happen — how we get to this point in the first place — as soon as the fix be put in place , the posture change to get we to a place where we well understand that root cause . that work be ongoing , and it would not be right for I to speculate on it , but I can absolutely assure the hon . Gentleman that we will get to the bottom of this issue . as for the specific technical issue last night , I be assure that the technical team be confident that there be now a permanent fix to that issue . when it come to e - gate reliability in general , more than 90 million passenger use e - gate each year , and we be world lead in their use . this be an extremely rare occurrence ; as the hon . Gentleman will recognise , one can never guarantee that any IT system will be 100 % reliable 100 % of the time , but that be why it be imperative that robust contingency be in place to underlie all those system , to maintain the integrity of our border . as a government , we be clear that we must never compromise border security , and we do not : the border be operational , albeit slow than any of we would like , for which I be sorry . this incident also demonstrate why automation at the border and e - gate be such an important part of the way in which people enter the country : without they , we would see the sort of operation that we see last night all the time . in fact , last year , over 90 % of people clear the border within 30 minute , which demonstrate just how integral e - gate be and why we place a real emphasis on make sure they be available . as I have say , we will get to the bottom of this . finally , the hon . Gentleman ask about the EU entry - exit system . in recent week , we have have a number of opportunity to debate that system in the House . an enormous amount of cross - Government work be go on at the moment to ensure we have the good possible plan in place . the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) — who be in his place — and I be work very closely together on this matter , alongside colleague from across Government , as well as engage thoroughly with our EU and french counterpart . we have make real progress in recent week , and we will continue to sustain that effort . may I press the Minister a little far on the reliability of the airport ' contingency plan when we have failure such as this one ? as he have allude to , this be not the first time that this have occur . I would be interested to know what lesson learn from previous handling be deploy on this occasion , particularly for support passenger who be elderly , have disability or young family , or require additional care and support , so that they do not suffer unduly during delay . my hon . friend the Chairman of the Transport Committee be right to raise those concern about passenger and their experience . as I say , this be a highly regrettable situation , but the response swing into action very quickly . it be fair to say that we always iterate and always learn . we probably will not have get everything 100 % right in the immediate response , but there be a genuine effort , co - ordinate by Border Force , with the airline and airport , to support passenger , particularly vulnerable one . individual who be at airport last night have say to I that they be impress by the contingency arrangement that be in place , but there be always thing that we can learn from these effort , and we will do exactly that . our contingency plan always have to be iterate ; we always have to be responsive . the integrity of our border be of the utmost importance , and support people — particularly vulnerable people — when thing go wrong be at the forefront of our consideration . I call the SNP spokesman . as be say by the labour shadow Minister , the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , this be the third e - gate failure in a year , and just week ago , traveller in Edinburgh , Manchester and Bristol face hour - long queue . it sound like the Minister be conduct a thorough investigation ; could he confirm that , and also confirm that he will report his finding to the House in a future statement ? this time , the problem appear to affect not just e - gate . Belfast international airport , which do not have e - gate , say that the Border Force system have be impact . could the Minister please clarify that issue ? finally , the Home Office have be talk for a long time about introduce other technological innovation in order to carry out its business . what lesson do the Minister think this example provide ? I thank the SNP spokesman for the constructive tone he have take in ask his question . he have raise a number of point . I can absolutely guarantee he that a thorough investigation be ongoing to establish exactly what go wrong . the technical team be confident that the fix that have be put in place address the issue , but of course , we want to understand the underlying cause of what go wrong last night to ensure that the system be as robust as it can possibly be , so that it can withstand any technical challenge go forward . I will gladly take away his point about update the House , and will consider how that can well be achieve . the hon . Gentleman have raise a point about Belfast airport . if he do not mind , I would like to take that point away , speak to Border Force official about it , and provide he with a write update . as for the wide point about delivery of a considerable programme of change at our domestic border over the come month , he will recall that we be roll out change through the electronic travel authorisation scheme . we have be deliver that in phase , and the early indication have be good . that scheme give we much great information upstream about passenger before they arrive at our border . that help we to tackle threat before passenger travel , which be an improved situation , and allow we to understand more about passenger whom we currently know very little about before they set off for the United Kingdom , as oppose to try to deal with issue at the border . we have also introduce e - visas , which be another important part of our programme to digitise the border . it be important to say that there will always be a physical Border Force presence at our airport . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) remark on that point ; I want to make it clear to the House , because although there be always a place for technology , and automation have an important role to play , it be right that there always be a physical presence as well , to support people who arrive at our port , and to ensure that we can respond to any issue . automation will allow we to focus increasingly on risk , and to deploy more Border Force officer to deal with it , as well as to improve the passenger experience , so the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) be right to raise the issue . any and all learning will be take forward as we develop process and programme , but I be confident that our plan for they be robust . we will get on with deliver on the commitment we have make . whenever there be malfunction of the e - gate at the UK border , it be the airport operator , include Gatwick in my constituency , that have to bear the brunt of the congestion cause by the delay that result . as the Home Office update the e - gate system with new technology , what assurance can the Minister give I that he and the Home Office will engage with the airport operator , so that they be very much part of ensure that we have a secure and free - flow border ? I know that my hon . friend recognise the importance of the digitisation that we be undertake of our border from a security , efficiency and customer service perspective . all of those be very important to airline as well as airport operator . my understanding be that there have consistently be significant engagement with our work on the future border programme , in addition to routine engagement with Border Force official . that be reflect in the work do on the ground last night in respond to the issue ; it show how strong those link and connection be . however , we must never be complacent , and when it come to the programme that we be develop and have make commitment to deliver , I guarantee my hon . friend that we will sustain that drumbeat of engagement . I be keen to lean into that as the Minister , and official will continue to do so as well . I be very grateful for his effort in raise Gatwick airport ' s issue and concern . he be a very diligent representative of his area , and I be really appreciative of his input . I commend the Minister for make the statement ; it be good to see such transparency . can he clarify how long it take from the moment the service go down to its restoration ? be it one , two , or three hour ? what be the long period that passenger have to wait ? if it be not a cyber - attack and there be no malicious activity , as he say , what be the problemt ? be it with the it , be it some kind of glitch — a Horizon kind of glitch — or be it the physical operation of the barrier ? last night be not the day with the large number of traveller in the UK . we will have day later on this year when we could have significantly large number — for instance , the Whitsun bank holiday . what be the Minister put in place to ensure that there be sufficient contingency measure , just in case the system go down again ? again , I thank the hon . gentleman for the way in which he put his question . many passenger see wait of two to three hour last night as they be process at the border . as I set out in my statement , the fix begin to take effect at around half - past midnight , so there be several hour between the issue first become know — the response kick in around six minute later — and the fix begin to make a difference at around 12 . 30 am . the hon . Gentleman ask what more we can do on the contingency side . I think that there will be learn that come out of last night . we will take that on board , and there will be opportunity for we to discuss and evaluate it , work with the airport and the airline . as I have consistently say , I think the response last night prove that there be robust contingency planning in place . it do make a difference , and it mean that the integrity of the border be maintain , but I be sorry that passenger have a long wait than any of we would want . on the technical issue , I will not pre - empt the work ongoing at pace in the Department to get to the bottom of the specific , but we will of course respond to that issue , and any learning require that flow from that will take place . the British be world - renowned for their patience in queueing , but I thank the Minister for his statement , and for his apology , especially for my Dudley constituent . I think the part that my constituent would struggle with more be his say that it be a no . 1 priority to make sure that our border be 100 % secure , when the same constituent can see hundred of people , if not 1 , 000 a day , land on the beach with no documentation whatsoever , and be allow to stay in this country ; if they go on to commit a crime , several year later , they may still be allow to stay in this country . it be a very real frustration , and something that even I can not reconcile . I think my hon . friend will recognise that there be proper check in place when people arrive at our airport , as there be last night . those people be arrive in our country and go about their business perfectly legally . the work we be take forward — initiative such as the electronic travel authorisation scheme — will only enhance the security of our border , which I think his constituent would welcome . that be akin to what we see in the United States and country such as Australia . however , my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of illegal migration . I can assure he and his constituent that proper security check be carry out when people arrive clandestinely . People should not be make small boat crossing of the channel , and should not be come to the United Kingdom in the back of lorry . it be completely unacceptable , and that be why his constituent so strongly support the work that the Government be take forward , particularly focus on make channel crossing unviable . those crossing happen at the hand of evil criminal gang , who take people ' s money , put they in small boat , and have no regard to whether they get safely to the other side . it be heinous , and that be why we be determined to put they out of business . I think traveller last night be give an authentic introduction to life in Brexit Britain under this UK Government , where absolutely nothing work whatsoever . that be the churlish point over , but clearly passenger in Glasgow be impact by this issue . however , the fix at 12 . 30 am come just before whole slew of 12 flight arrive , so Glasgow in many way be a lucky airport , as be the passenger arrive there . the Minister speak about the contingency plan work . what he be do to reach out to individual airport , and to look at how their contingency plan work last night ? what resource be available to those airport for improve those contingency plan ? on the first part of the hon . member ' s question , what a load of rubbish . E - gate be an important part of our border infrastructure when we be a member of the European Union , and they continue to be important now that we be a non - member of the European Union , so I think we can discount that perspective . however , the second half of the hon . member ' s question be very valid . that be precisely why I want operational team to spend time engage with airport and airline follow the incident last night , to make sure that we capture any and all learn flow from it . as I have say , I think it be fair to say that across those organisation , work in partnership , there be a robust response . the contingency plan do work , but there will be thing that we can learn from the incident . that be as relevant to Gatwick as it be to Heathrow , stanste , Belfast and other airport . we should and will have those conversation . it be probably worth remind ourselves why the expansion of the use of e - gates , include to family with child age 10 and over , have be useful , not just from a passenger comfort and convenience point of view , but because there be a range of security benefit to the check that machine can perform , particularly biometric check , but I be sure that the Minister will be grateful to I for not go into that on the Floor of the House of Commons . on this type of outage , inevitably , when a technology be be rely on , there be the potential for something to happen . it be reassuring to hear that in this instance the problem be not cause by a malign influence . if it later emerge that it have be , I be sure that the Minister would come back to the House , but I can imagine the type of assurance that have be give in the Home Office before he come here to give his assurance from the Dispatch Box . for I , it be about far explore the opportunity for other agency and authority to support Border Force in deliver the border . it seem clear from the Minister ' s statement that at all time people be still be check , but just by an officer , rather than through an e - gate . what further work could be do on rapid deployment through support agreement , potentially with officer from other part of the civil service who have the training to operate the border , but be not necessarily routinely position on it ? we must consider the fact that our core goal for the border , particularly as the electronic travel authorisation scheme come in , be to stop people who be a threat or who we do not want to allow into the country from get on a plane in the first place to come to the United Kingdom . we should increasingly be decline they at the place where they check in , rather than at the UK border . my hon . friend speak with real authority on these issue , have be the architect of so much of the change we be introduce at the border . he be right that the possibility of automation be enormous , for improve the passenger experience and have a great understanding of many of those individual who be travel to our country and be able to prevent some of that travel in the first place , rather than respond to that at the border , where risk be involve . my hon . Friend ask about contingency . there be always a place for ensure wide training and opportunity within the organisation to surge capacity when there be challenge . we have do that in respond to a number of different challenge over the year . it be fair to say that last night there be Border Force staff member who be perhaps not on the primary control point ordinarily who be surge in to support the team work on the PCP to help get people through the border as quickly as possible . in particular where there be protract issue affect our port , we should always look at what we can do to provide additional support from other part of the Home Office and perhaps even elsewhere . I pay tribute to the staff who work so hard to respond to the crisis and to every traveller who wait so patiently . the episode say a lot about the Government ' s priority when it come to control our border properly . instead of chase headline on immoral and expensive policy to deport asylum seeker to Rwanda , can the Minister assure I that he will focus on ensure that my Bath constituent can travel freely , safely and without huge delay ? that be always the priority of the Government . I have set out the focus on security , efficiency and ensure that passenger have the good possible experience of the UK border . I have be able to set out the fact that in so many instance — a very high percentage of occasion — the e - gates work successfully . some 90 million passenger pass through the e - gate quickly every year . when it come to border security , I be probably right in say that the hon . Lady vote against the sort of measure , such as the electronic travel authorisation scheme , that we legislate for through the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 . that be a cornerstone of our effort to help improve security at the border , improve that automation and be able to bring passenger through more quickly . lastly , I call Patrick Grady . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — you perhaps see the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) hand I the wooden spoon on his way out of the Chamber early . none of this will surprise those of we who think that the Home Office ' s default position be to make enter the UK as difficult as possible , because this be essentially a manifestation of the hostile environment writ large . may I press the Minister on the contingency and redundancy ? when people be process manually at the border , be it essentially the e - gate system with a human being do the verification , or be it sufficiently separate that people can be process manually through the border while the e - gate be down ? what be his relationship with the airline and the airport ? be there awareness , as my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) say , when large number of flight be expect , so that the e - gate be fully operational and fully staff ? certainly in my experience and that of some constituent , that be not always the case . I rather wonder whether the SNP reshuffle be on the mind of SNP colleague here this afternoon , and their prospect , because we have hear some rather bizarre angle in some of the question . on the more serious point that the hon . Gentleman raise , when it come to how we deal with this incident yesterday , there be underlie system availability to support manual check to get people through the border as quickly as possible . we also work closely with the airline and the airport to ensure that we maximise the staffing on the primary control at peak time to ensure that people can be process as quickly as possible . there be people who pass through have face - to - face interaction with Border Force officer , and there be people who pass through the e - gate . we make sure that we take proper account of the flow through our port and that staffing reflect the demand at any give point of the day . Bill Presented Medicines ( vitamin B12 Injections ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Jane Hunt , support by Peter Aldous and Anthony Mangnall , present a Bill to provide that vitamin B12 injection may be sell , supply or administer by a register pharmacist without a prescription ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 June , and to be print ( Bill 213 ) . assistance Dogs and Pavement Parking Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to remove exemption from requirement to provide access or service to a person who be accompany by an assistance dog ; to make the undertaking of disability equality training in relation to assistance dog a condition of hold a licence to drive a taxi or private hire vehicle ; to prohibit the parking of motor vehicle on pavement and footpath ; and for connected purpose . just imagine how hard life would be if you could not see . there be amazing people , however , who can use a dog to help they go about their daily life — dog train so skilfully that they can transform opportunity for blind people . sadly , almost a third of people with sight loss be reluctant to go out on their own , and almost half of guide dog owner be force to change or restrict where they be willing or able to go . as we see assistance dog able to help more people with more and different disability , this Bill will solve some of the problem that these dog owner face . we have all feel for a light switch in a dark room at home , and we can understand those feeling of frustration , helplessness or even panic . if that be what it be like to turn on the light in our own home , imagine try to do so somewhere strange , where a mishap could mean crack one ' s head on a kerb or , bad , be hit by a truck . no shop , no restaurant and no supermarket should be turn away someone with an assistance dog . no taxi driver should be worry about dog allergy when they see a blind person , because they must and will know how to look after they , because they have be train to deal with those customer . no pavement should be an obstacle course , block by park vehicle . I be proud that in North Herefordshire people with sight loss have an especially esteemed place . Hereford be home to the Royal National College for the Blind , where young people with visual impairment receive training and education . it be wonderful to witness these individual learn not to cope , but to thrive . however , figure suggest that 74 % of people with assistance dog be turn away from food and drink outlet between July 2021 and July 2022 ; that 53 % experience a refusal when visit a shop ; and that 37 % be tell " no " by hotel and bed and breakfast . all of that be in spite of the Equality Act 2010 , under which the vast majority of such refusal be already illegal . the Equality Act protect the assistance dog , not the person , so it allow for far wide opportunity for access . it be the plight of these people , however , that be of the great importance to I , because of how the Royal National College for the Blind be locate in Herefordshire , but also because I be a Royal National Institute of Blind People champion and the owner of a former guide dog , Warwick . there be no reason why anybody should be turn away assistance dog user . " angry " , " embarrassed " , " disappointed " and " isolated " be the word use by respondent to a Guide Dogs UK survey to describe such bad experience . but , of course , the dog say nothing . at a time when the RNIB report that only 56 % of blind and partially sight people have receive vision rehabilitation support and 26 % of local authority have leave people wait more than a year for assessment and support , it be critical that we do more , and we must do it now . working assistance dog receive up to two year of intensive training — and that be before the further training they get during their work life . they be not disruptive , because they be so highly train . I have test this on our family dog , Warwick . when we — the owner — go for a walk with our dog , we lead our dog across the road , but Warwick can lead I across the road . these dog be hygienic . the fact that the Food Standards Agency have confirm that assistance dog should be allow entry to food shop and premise prove that . I have see the facility for blind owner to be train on how to maintain the high standard of groom require for these dog , and vet regularly check they . because most blind owner keep their retire guide dog , my Bill will go far and allow retired assistance dog to have that same universal access . those retire dog be often still own by their original user and be just as well train as work assistance dog . it be already recognise that they be well disciplined and that they present no risk of disruption or hygiene issue , so what reason be there to refuse they and their handler access ? there be none . even if permit access to assistance dog be a burden on business owner — as I have outline , it be not — the number involve be so small that any negative effect would be negligible . just over 7 , 000 people in our country rely on assistance dog , of which about 4 , 500 be guide dog . that be just one person in every 10 , 000 . currently , taxi and private hire vehicle driver can be issue with exemption from carry assistance dog on medical ground . some people be allergic to dog — that be an unavoidable fact — but only taxi and minicab driver can hold exemption due to allergy . there be only 7 , 000 assistance dog out there , so surely we can accommodate everyone . if it be a legal requirement for owner and employee in small shop to accept assistance dog , why should taxi and PVH driver be allow a total exemption ? since covid , protective screen for driver have become widespread and be easy to fit . we need driver to be train to think ahead so that they have a solution to their dog allergy rather than refuse to carry a blind person . it be what we all do — we give consideration to how we can accommodate disability rather than reject disabled people — yet 81 % of guide dog owner , accord to research by Guide Dogs in 2022 , have be refuse access to taxi . almost 63 % have experience that in the previous 12 month . in 2016 , a private Member ' s Bill contribute to the formation of a Department for Transport task and finish group look into that . three year later , the Government agree to make it a requirement for driver to undertake disability equality training , yet , despite Government commitment , last year only 62 % of authority require disability equality training for taxi . in Northern Ireland , where training be require , instance of access refusal for taxi be rare . training and forethought be the solution . equally clear be the solution to the problem that face assistance dog owner on foot . in 2019 , 80 % of blind or partially sight people report that pavement parking make it difficult for they to walk on pavement at least once a week , and more than 95 % of people with sight loss state that it have force they to walk in the road . consequently , one in five people with sight loss have be injure because of pavement parking . we should be help these people , not impede they . the England blind football team train in Hereford . they stand as a testament to the fact that people with sight loss can do almost everything that someone who do not suffer visual impairment can . the next time someone think that they need to park on the pavement , they should try shut their eye when they try to take a shower and see what a mess they make . in London , where pavement parking have be heavily restrict since 1974 , only 26 % of people with sight loss face daily problem , while , in the country at large , that figure be 45 % . there be already way for the police to fine obstructive vehicle , but enforcement be the issue . prohibit pavement parking would do a great deal to help people with sight loss . it have be do London , in Scotland and in Northern Ireland , so it be possible and it do work . the Transport Committee ' s report of September 2019 recommend it . I know that the Government be commit to the wellbeing and equality of people who use assistance dog . the Bill would make the life of people with assistance dog easier . it would also encourage and support people who use dog — or perhaps want to use a dog — but be afraid of be make to walk home in the rain , bar from use a taxi or restaurant and force off the pavement and into the traffic by pavement parking . just imagine if that person be you . question put and agree to . order , that Sir Bill Wiggin , Henry Smith , Greg Smith , James Gray , Selaine Saxby , Mr David Jones , Dame Tracey Crouch , Mr Mark Francois , Dr James Davies , Bob Blackman and Rachel Maclean present the Bill . Sir Bill Wiggin accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 214 ) . Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill ( clause 1 to 4 , 12 and 13 , and 19 ) consider in Committee [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the morning of 12 March 2024 , on the Budget 2024 , HC 625 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the afternoon of 12 March 2024 , on the Budget 2024 , HC 625 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on 13 March 2024 , on the Budget 2024 , HC 625 ; correspondence from the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the Treasury Committee , on the Budget 2024 , report to the House on 1 May 2024 . ] [ Dame Eleanor Laing in the Chair ] clause 1 - income tax charge for tax year 2024 - 25 Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : clause 2 to 4 stand part . new clause 1 — Review of impact of section 2 — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the expect impact of section 2 of this Act . ( 2 ) the review must include analysis set out the number of individual taxpayer face a marginal tax rate in the tax year 2024 - 25 of — ( a ) the basic rate of 20 % , and ( b ) the high rate of 40 % . ( 3 ) for comparative purpose , the review must take account of — ( a ) equivalent actual figure to those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) for the tax year 2021 - 22 , 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 , and ( b ) equivalent project figure to those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) for the tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 and 2027 - 28 . " this new clause require a review of how many people will be liable to pay income tax at 20 % and 40 % , and would compare figure for the current tax year with those for the three precede and three subsequent tax year . new clause 4 — Review of impact of section 1 on pensioner — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the expect impact of section 1 of this Act on those over State Pension age . ( 2 ) the review must include analysis set out , for the tax year 2024 - 25 — ( a ) the total number of people over the State Pension age pay tax under section 1 , and ( b ) the average tax liability per person of those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) . ( 3 ) for comparative purpose , the review must take account of equivalent project figure to those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( 2 ) ( b ) for the tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 and 2027 - 28 . " this new clause require a review of how many pensioner will be liable to pay income tax this year and in each of the next three year , and what the average pensioner ' s tax bill will be in each of those year . new clause 5 — impact of income tax and corporation tax provision on Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland — " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish an analysis of the impact of the measure in section 1 to 4 , 12 and 13 of this Act on — ( a ) Wales , ( b ) Scotland , and ( c ) Northern Ireland . " this new clause require an analysis of the income tax and corporation tax measure in the Bill on Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . new clause 6 — report on impact of section 2 — " within three month of this Act be pass , the Chancellor of the Exchequer must lay before the House of Commons a report set out — ( a ) the number of taxpayer that will pay income tax at each rate during the tax year 2024 - 2025 under section 2 ; ( b ) the number of those taxpayer that be pensioner or be of State Pension Age ; ( c ) comparative figure for each tax year since 2021 ; and ( d ) comparative project figure for each tax year to 2030 . " it be an honour to open the debate . I will start by set out how , because of the progress the Government have make , we have be able to cut taxis as part of our plan to reward work and grow the economy . the Government cut national insurance at both the autumn statement and the spring Budget and have make above - inflation increase to threshold since 2010 , with the basic rate threshold rise from £ 6 , 475 to £ 12 , 570 today . take together , those measure mean that an average worker on £ 35 , 400 in 2024 - 25 will save £ 1 , 500 more in personal taxis than they otherwise would have do . due to the significant real - term increase to the personal allowance , it be estimate that 1 . 8 million people will be take out of income tax altogether by 2024 - 25 , compare with the threshold rise in line with inflation from 2010 - 11 . all worker can now earn £ 1 , 000 a month before pay any tax , due to the significant increase to the national insurance start threshold , which we change in July 2022 . let I turn to the first four clause of the Bill . income tax be the large source of Government revenue and help to fund the UK ' s school , hospital and defence , and other essential service we all rely on . in 2024 - 25 , it be expect to raise more than £ 302 billion . each year , the Government must legislate to charge and set rate of income tax , which be why we be all here today . clause 1 to 3 impose an income tax charge and set the rate of it for 2024 - 25 . the rate be not change by the Bill ; rather , we be confirm that they will remain the same . clause 1 impose a charge on individual to pay income tax for the year 2024 - 25 . clause 2 set the main income tax rate — namely the basic rate of 20 % , the high rate of 40 % and the additional rate of 45 % — for non - savings and non - dividend income of taxpayer in England and Northern Ireland . those rate be set separately from those in clause 3 , as the income tax rate for non - savings and non - dividend income , such as earning from employment , be devolve to the Scottish and Welsh Governments , and be set by their respective Parliaments . the decision to separate saving and dividend from other form of income be make as part of the devolution settlement . it ensure that the UK system work effectively and coherently , recognise that dividend and saving income be generally more mobile and generate across the UK , and have some interaction with corporation tax , which be not devolve . clause 3 set the default income tax rate at the same level as the main rate — namely 20 % , 40 % and 45 % — across the entire UK . these rate apply to the non - savings and non - dividend income of taxpayer who be not subject to the main rate of income tax or to Welsh or scottish rate of income tax , such as non - uk resident individual . the clause also set the savings rate of income tax for all UK taxpayer , again at 20 % , 40 % and 45 % . as I mention , income tax be a vital revenue stream for our public service , without which we could not fund our school , hospital , defence and more . it be important that we keep it at its current level . I receive email from constituent ask I why the Government be not unfreeze the personal tax threshold . we all know that , because of the level of intervention that we have to take , out of necessity , during the pandemic and in response to the cost of living challenge , Government intervention be far great than any of we anticipate — to the tune of £ 400 billion in the pandemic and £ 100 billion for the cost of living challenge . that money have to be pay back , and I think most of our constituent know that . we have see the same pattern right around the world , where tax level have have to be high out of necessity . that mean that threshold have not be able to move in the way that we would normally like . however , now that economic circumstance be change , we have turn a corner and we be able to reduce taxis , such as for the 27 million people who will receive on average an extra £ 900 through the national insurance cut . I be grateful to the Minister for give way a second time . he start by talk about some of the fiscal measure that the Government have take to reduce tax , but by not unfreeze the personal allowance , be the Government not take money from one pocket and put it back in the other ? no . I advise the hon . member and other to look at their wage slip from a few month ago — say , in December last year . they will see a direct impact because of the national insurance change that we make in January and again in April . People will see that they be pay less national insurance than in the past . that be transparently and clearly a tax cut . we be able to reduce taxation because the direction of travel be change . taxis have increase across the whole of the western world . our tax level be project to increase to about 37 % , compare with around 39 % in Germany , around 42 % in Italy and around 46 % in France . this be a phenomenon whereby government have have to intervene and spend more money and , as an obvious consequence , they have have to increase taxation to a great level than anticipate or desire . however , now that we be back to growth and on a firm footing , the economy have turn a corner , and we be able to reward the hard work of the british public by reduce taxation . we be do that in the form of income tax cut . as the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have say on multiple occasion , we wish to continue in that direction of travel . as I say , people should look at their pay packet . I recognise that it be one thing to talk in the Chamber about implement law , but people will now see that in their pay packet in a meaningful way . an average worker on £ 35 , 400 will be £ 900 well off as a result of the national insurance cut . that be a meaningful amount for constituent right across the country , include those in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . another principle of taxation be fairness . income tax be fair : those with the most contribute the most . the income tax system be highly progressive , with different rate of tax sit above an internationally high personal allowance . the top 5 % of income tax payer be project to pay nearly half of all income tax in 2023 - 24 . the top 1 % be project to pay more than 28 % of income tax . thank to the personal allowance , almost a quarter of individual will not pay income tax at all in 2024 - 25 . it be important to note that the percentage pay by the top earner be great than it be under the last Labour Government . in other word , the tax system be more progressive under the Conservatives . income tax be also internationally competitive . accord to the OECD , the UK have some of the most generous starting allowance for income tax and social security contribution in the OECD , and the most generous in the G7 — more generous than in France , Germany , Italy , Canada , Japan and the US . accord to the OECD , in the United Kingdom the average single worker face a net average tax rate of 23 . 7 % in 2023 , compare with the OECD average of 24 . 9 % . in other word , in the United Kingdom , the take - home pay of an average single worker after tax and benefit be 76 . 3 % of their gross wage , compare with the OECD average of 75 . 1 % . I have talk a lot of statistic , but what they mean be more money in people ' s pocket to spend as they wish — a fundamental conservative philosophy . we have also be able to return some money to taxpayer now that inflation be fall and the economy be improve , by reduce national insurance contribution . we have put money back into people ' s pocket . we have prioritise tax cut for those in work , and we believe that that be the good way to stimulate growth in the economy overall . clause 4 continue the theme of maintain the income tax arrangement by keep the starting rate limit for saving at its current level of £ 5 , 000 for the 2024 - 25 tax year . many colleague may be familiar with this but some may not , so briefly by way of explanation , the starting rate for saving be an extra £ 5 , 000 tax - free allowance for interest from saving , specifically for individual who have earn income of less than £ 17 , 570 . that support in particular people with low earn income , such as pensioner who be reliant on saving interest . the Government make significant change to the starting rate for saving in 2015 , when they raise the threshold to get the starting rate for saving from £ 2 , 880 to £ 5 , 000 , and lower the starting rate for saving from 10 % to 0 % . as many member will be aware , the starting rate limit for saving must be legislate for each year to confirm the band of saving income to which it apply . again , that be what we be do today . this clause will ensure that the limit be hold at this level . it ensure simplicity and fairness in the tax system , while maintain a generous tax relief and support the public finance by take fiscally responsible decision . as well as benefit from the starting rate for saving — whereby , as I have say , individual with earn income of less than £ 17 , 507 can earn up to £ 5 , 000 in saving income free of tax — saver be support by the personal saving allowance , which provide up to £ 1 , 000 of tax - free saving income for basic rate taxpayer . they can also continue to benefit from the annual ISA allowance of £ 20 , 000 . moreover , in the spring Budget 2024 the Government introduce the british ISA , which will provide a new allowance of £ 5 , 000 in addition to the exist ISA allowance , along with a new tax - free saving opportunity for people to invest in the UK . take together , those generous allowance mean that about 85 % of saver pay no tax on their saving income . the Government be commit to continue to help people on all income and at all stage of life to save . the significant increase in the starting limit in 2015 mean that the taxation arrangement for saving income remain generous , and the Government therefore believe that it be appropriate to retain the starting rate for saving at its exist value at this time . the Government be manage the public finance in a balanced and responsible way . our approach to deliver fiscal sustainability be underpin by fairness , with those on the high income pay a large share . by maintain the current rate of income tax and the starting rate limit for saving threshold , we will ensure that the high earner contribute more to the revenue , help the Government to take a balanced approach to revenue raising while still support vital public service . I rise to speak on behalf of the Opposition to new clause 1 and 4 , which stand in my name and that of my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) . " this remain a parliament of record tax rise . " those be not my word but those of Paul Johnson , the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , follow the spring Budget from which this Finance Bill derive . however , the IFS be not alone in its view . in response to the Budget , the Institute for Government be clear as well , say that taxis be set to rise " to a post - war high as a result of decision make by conservative chancellor over the past 14 year . " meanwhile , the National Institute of Economic and Social Research describe the Chancellor ' s announcement in March as a " low - key budget … unlikely to unlock the UK ' s growth and productivity problem " . the verdict be clear . People in Britain be face high taxis , squeeze living standard and weak public service , and they have a Government who be unable to undo the damage that they have cause . no matter what the Conservatives now say or do , the truth be that the tax burden be set to rise to its high level in 70 year . the decision take by Conservative Chancellors in this Parliament — and , let ' s face it , there have be a few of they — mean that the average family will face a tax bill that be £ 870 a year high by 2028 - 29 . for pensioner , it be even bad : people over the state pension ago do not even benefit from any change in national insurance , which mean that pensioner taxpayer will pay an eye - water £ 960 more a year by the end of the forecast period . People across Britain be struggle to make end meet as they find their wage squeeze and taxis rise relentlessly , yet the Conservatives have decide to tell the british public that they have never have it so good . I note that minister be try to do that again today , tell we that their plan be work , although that be not the reality of life for people who , at the next general election , will be ask themselves whether they and their family feel well off than they do 14 year ago . it be that reality that new clause 1 and 4 seek to expose : as the Conservatives gaslight the british people , our new clause be there to call they out . new clause 1 do that by require the Government to come clean over how many people will be liable to pay income tax at 20 % and 40 % in the current tax year , how the number have change over the last three year , and how it will change in the three year ahead . we want the Government to admit the impact that their six - year freezing of the income tax personal allowance and the high rate threshold will have . accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , 3 . 7 million more people will be pay tax by 2028 - 29 , and 2 . 7 million more will be pay the high rate , as a result of the Government ' s threshold freeze . will the Minister repeat those figure and admit that they be correct ? we believe that the Chancellor should be honest about this too , and that be what new clause 1 seek to achieve . we know that the outcome of the Conservatives ' decision during the current Parliament be hit pensioner who pay tax especially hard : because taxpayer over the state pension age do not benefit from any of the change in national insurance , they will feel the impact of the Conservatives ' tax rise even more . that be why we table new clause 4 — again , require the Chancellor to come clean about the impact of his and his predecessor ' policy . the new clause require the Chancellor to set out the number of pensioner who will be liable to pay income tax this year and in each of the next three year , and what the average pensioner ' s tax bill will be . Pensioners deserve to know the truth about how the Government ' s decision will affect they , and they have good reason to be concerned about this Government . while Labour have guarantee that the pension triple lock will be in our manifesto and protect for the duration of the next Parliament if we win , the Conservatives refuse to say what impact on pensioner their £ 46 billion unfunded pledge to abolish national insurance altogether would have . as the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) say yesterday , it be a tax bombshell aim squarely at Britain ' s pensioner . the Conservatives be refuse to say how they would pay for this massive commitment , so it be hard not to suspect that they be conceal their plan to make pensioner pay the bill . perhaps they will pay for the revenue lose through the abolition of national insurance by make change to pension rate or to the state pension age , but if they be plan to keep pension the same and make up the revenue by raise the basic and high rate of income tax , that would mean an 8 % increase in income tax rate . my colleague and I have ask Ministers time and again to come clean about how they would pay for their plan , but they resolutely refuse to do so . they could clear this up right here , right now , by either abandon their unfunded commitment or explain how they would pay for it . I would happily give way if the Minister would like to do that , but I suspect that he will not . we know that the Conservatives find the reality of their tax - raise record so hard to bear that they would rather hang on to a reckless , unfunded plan to abolish national insurance to make they feel well about themselves and to desperately try to keep their divide party together . it be crystal clear that for the Conservatives it be party first , country second . we also know that the Conservatives ' high tax record go hand in hand with their record of low growth in the economy . indeed , one of the reason taxis be so high be the fact that economic growth have be so weak over the past 14 year . again , no matter what the current set of Ministers say , the idea that the economy be turn a corner be simply not reflect in reality . the truth be that our economy be small per person than it be when the right hon . member for Richmond ( Yorks ) ( Rishi Sunak ) become Prime Minister . our country be forecast by the OECD to have economic growth of just 1 % next year , weak than that in every other G20 country except Russia . if , under the Conservatives , the UK economy have grow at the average OECD rate , it would now be £ 140 billion large — and that growth would have provide an extra £ 50 billion in tax revenue to be invest in our public service . instead , economic growth be on the floor , taxis be go up , and public service be fall over . that be the conservative doom loop that we be in . we know that the only way out of the doom loop of ever - rise taxis with nothing to show in return be to get the economy grow with Labour ' s plan . labour ' s plan for economic growth be drive by the need for stability , investment and reform . stability , something so sorely lack in the recent year of conservative chaos , must be the basis of a secure and responsible approach to the economy , and with strong fiscal rule , a new fiscal lock and respect for independent institution , we will put stability at the heart of our approach . at the beginning of his speech the hon . Gentleman mention Paul Johnson , whom the press have quote today as say that the Government and the opposition be tie to the same fiscal path . be that an ideological decision or a general election tactic ? I be genuinely interested in hear the answer . we in the Labour party believe that have fiscal rule that be iron - clothe be essential to be trust to manage the economy in a responsible way that put family security and family finance first . have strong fiscal rule and stability underpin every other decision that we make be absolutely essential to everything that a Government might hope to do . indeed , that stability form the foundation for get the economy grow , because with stability we will be able to work in partnership with business to remove the barrier to investment , use catalytic public investment to unlock more than £ 20 billion from the private sector to invest in the industry of the future . to support that investment , we will reform the system that our economy need to thrive , from reform of our planning system and employment right to devolve power to elect Mayors on transport , skill , enterprise , energy and planning . that be how Labour will begin to grow the economy if we win the next general election . we know that a new approach and a new Government be need , because that be what people across the country be tell we . People want a new approach whereby they can feel well off , rather than struggle to make end meet as their taxis rise relentlessly . the Conservatives be desperate to distract from the mess they have create . they go from the simply unbelievable , like the Chancellor claim yesterday that they have abolish low pay , to the unbelievably reckless , like their £ 46 billion unfunded plan to abolish national insurance . but no matter what they say , or how hard they try to pretend that their plan be work and that people in Britain have never have it so good , people know the reality of life . People know that taxis be at record level . today we want the Conservatives to at least come clean and admit how many more people be pay tax as a result of their decision in this Parliament , and how hard they be hit pensioner in particular . frankly , however , no matter whether they come clean , come the general election , people across Britain will ask themselves whether they and their family feel well off today than they do 14 year ago . the answer to that question be the reality from which the conservative can not hide . I have declare my business interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I rise to speak in support of tax - cut proposal . we be not discuss the national insurance reduction in this group of clause , but both previous speaker have spend some of their time discuss they because they be relevant , as they be the other side of the issue relate to the correct level and threshold for income tax , which be the proper matter of our current debate . I want any kind of tax cut in the Budget , because we be over - tax and the right kind of tax cut can speed up growth , which all the major party in this House want , although there be some disagreement about the exact mix of policy that might create it . the first thing we need from the Treasury be for its official forecast and those of the OBR to have great belief in the fact that if we promote more growth by cut some tax rate , we may end up with more tax revenue . the good generator of more revenue to pay for our public service be a grow economy . the good generator of more growth be productivity improvement , and there be particular scope for such improvement in the public sector . the public sector be badly damage by the covid experience . we lose a lot of productivity through the hasty and unnecessary reorganisation of public service during the pandemic , but we be find it hard work and slow go to get the lose productivity back . I welcome the fact that , in the late set of Budget number , the Government have put in future productivity recovery over the next few year , but it be slow progress , even to get back to the level of productivity in 2019 . I put it to the Government that they do not need to spend extra money on new technology , such as artificial intelligence , to get back to the level of 2019 . they may wish to recommend scheme for AI investment to get above 2019 level but , by definition , we be able to get to 2019 level of productivity without AI , because it have not be invent at that stage . there should be more common agreement about the urgency of productivity recovery in public service . we be miss out on at least £ 20 billion due to the productivity problem that have develop since 2020 and the lockdown experience . however , there be also a source of extra revenue from low taxis , because if we cut tax rate in the right way , we will generate more cash , rather than less . I think everybody now agree that cut certain taxis have that effect , because it be quite obvious that if we impose certain kind of turnover or activity taxis , they will lower turnover and activity . indeed , many taxis be impose with a moral wish to lower activity or usage rate . for example , alcohol and tobacco attract high taxis because the wish be that people buy they less or , in the case of tobacco , do not buy they at all . we get the same effect with thing that we should be promote . one of my proposal to the Government be that they should be extremely worried about the large decline in the number of self - employ people since 2019 . some of that the inevitable consequence of lockdown , which lead to old people who be work for themselves be unable to work and decide to retire a bit early , but quite a lot of it be not . some of it be due to people of young age be deter by their experience , and some of it be because young people be not come forward to replace those who be self - employ . it be not just lockdown or the disruption around that time that cause this problem ; it be also the IR35 tax change , which go through in two tranche , culminate at about the time we experience the problem of lockdown . we have lose more than 800 , 000 self - employ people , partly through a self - inflict tax wound . the decision be take in two stage to introduce the idea that a person act as the customer of a self - employ contractor have a duty to satisfy themselves about their tax status , and can be liable if they have make a mistake in their tax status . that mean it become extremely difficult for quite a lot of self - employ people to get contract from both small and big business , because why would the executive take the risk that they could , in the end , be tie up in a dispute with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs that they do not want ? it be simple not to allow a self - employ person to win a contract , because there be tax bureaucracy and an investigation that could put they both on the wrong end of a tax bill and on the wrong end of a moral issue where it look as if they be help someone to fiddle their taxis . HMRC have always have issue with how to define someone as a genuinely self - employ person . there be lot of obvious requirement , because none of we want to see people who be effectively employ by a single employer take advantage of tax break that be design to deal with the extra risk of be self - employ , include the lack of benefit that someone get if they be genuinely self - employ . if they be not get sick pay and pay holiday , they be in a rather different category from those of we who be employ , who get such benefit from our employer build into the overall package . the normal sort of test include whether someone be work for more than one employer . do they have a contract for service or an employment contract ? do they have sick pay ? do they have holiday entitlement ? do they have other benefit ? these be the test that we would normally apply to decide whether someone be genuinely self - employ . we have get too tough from the revenue side , and we have lose a lot of self - employ people . we be not recruit the extra self - employ people we want , who be vital to the growth and vitality of an economy . if we have a few hundred thousand more self - employ people , they would be the innovator , the price cutter and the people who go the extra distance to provide an additional service . they would find customer and be useful challenger to the big business . they would not destroy the big business but would keep they on their mettle and make they understand that they , too , have to listen more to what customer want , because customer service improvement be often generate first by the self - employ or a small business . I turn now to small business themselves . if a self - employ person take the giant bureaucratic step of take on an employee or two , they will have all the bureaucracy and the extra tax that go with that . we need to make it as easy as possible for they to grow their small business , and I be very pleased that the Government have now say that they can raise the vat threshold , because register for vat be a colossal additional commitment that a small business have to make . it mean divert a lot of energy into tax compliance , rather than find more customer and serve they well , so we should seek to delay that until the business be rather big than the level that be currently recommend . I urge the Government , who I know be interested in a growth strategy , to allow people to put off the day when they have to register for vat , so that they can concentrate rather more on that period of growth . turn to the issue of national insurance versus income tax , which we be about to vote on , I begin my remark by say that I be happy to support the national insurance reduction . it will help those in employment and promote high real income and more spending , which be what we need for a growth strategy and to cheer the country up a bit . however , we need to hear a bit more of the Government ' s think before we turn the wide proposal — it be not yet proper policy , because it have not be give a budget or a timetable — into a firm manifesto pledge on our main priority for future tax change . for example , we need a statement from the Government on how people will earn their entitlement to the state retirement pension if there be no long any employee contribution , because our current entitlement to the state retirement pension be base on the number of year of contribution we have make through NI . we can change that ; this Parliament can do anything it like on those sort of issue , but it have not change it yet . I think this need some kind of Green Paper or White Paper — some kind of thought - through model of what the state retirement pension scheme will look like if we want to end up with no employee national insurance contribution at all . it might require the abolition of the national insurance fund and have just a payroll tax on employer in the future , because the fund would not look quite the same without the employee contribution . at the moment , broadly speak , the fund pay for the state retirement pension , with a little balance on top . long go be the day when it pay for the health service and many of the other benefit . if we read the detail , we can see that there be just a few rather modest residual contributory benefit leave . we need some kind of new presentation or analysis of what might happen to the fund . it be also important to ensure balance and fairness in the distribution of tax reduction , so I think there have to be some tax reduction for those who have complete their work life and be no long in receipt of employment income . it would be wrong for the conservative party to rule out tax reduction that help those who have retire — those who now have investment income because they save hard and work hard during their work life . there need to be some balance in how we allocate those reduction . I would also say to the Government that , as they think forward to their next fiscal event , as I think we now have to call they — an autumn statement , a mini - Budget or whatever the late terminology be — there be more scope in the number to have a well return of money to taxpayer than this quite cautious Budget we be vote on tonight give we the opportunity to do . I do not think we can afford the incredibly expensive habit of the loss - make Bank of England . I fully understand that the Bank of England be completely independent in set the base rate , set out its inflation forecast and conduct its monetary policy through the Monetary Policy Committee , and nothing I be suggest would in any way interfere with that . however , we have a parallel policy , which begin under Chancellor Darling and the Labour Government and continue under successive Conservative Chancellors . it be always a joint policy of the Treasury and the Bank to create money to buy bond and to create a jointly hold portfolio . successive Chancellors of the Exchequer need not only to give their authority to do that — prove that it be not an independent Bank policy — but to give an indemnity to the Bank against all loss . I say to those on the Treasury Bench that we , as a country , have now pay the Bank of England , I believe , £ 49 billion for loss over the last year and a half or so , and if we believe the OBR number , there be many ten of billion in loss to come over the next five year . those loss come from three different source , and some , although not all , be avoidable . the Treasury and the Bank need to discuss those colossal loss and to understand that the United Kingdom and the Bank of England be now very much out of line with the practice of , say , the European Central Bank , which follow a similar policy of create money and buy bond in the bad day , but which be not try to get rid of they all as quickly as the Bank of England . the ECB be not sell they in the market at colossal loss , particularly the long bond that be sit on very large loss , because there be no need to sell they . also , the ECB be not pay its full overnight rate on bank reserve , which would create a big running loss . the Bank of England never use to pay any money on reserve prior to 2006 . the ECB have reinstitute zero interest on minimum reserve and have a low deposit rate than the base rate . so I think there be thing to learn from the European Central Bank so that the Bank of England could come back without such huge loss that substantially distort our fiscal policy . the principle of independent monetary policy set the base rate and forecasting inflation be important , but so too be the independence of fiscal policy from Bank and other outside interference . now , however , the Bank of England be a dominant influence on our fiscal policy because its loss be so enormous , and that obviously affect what be available to spend or to offer by way of tax reduction . I hope that those on the Treasury Bench be in listen mode on these matter , because if sensible change be agree , we could look forward to a little bit more tax reduction and flexibility , and maybe a little more spending where we be hurt — on some feature of the health service , perhaps — so that we could reinforce our growth policy with appropriate policy that be eminently affordable . member of the House who be interested will know that I be critical of the current control mechanism . I do not think it be very good . it would be much well to have something more like the american system , which have both an inflation and a growth control over the economy . I be suspicious of an economy that be effectively guide by a single five - year forecast by the OBR . I do not believe that the OBR or anybody else have much idea of what the budget deficit be go to be in five year ' time , because there be so many different thing that can come along to change it . so , far from that be an iron rule , it be an arbitrary rule . almost the only thing we know about that number be that it be likely to be wrong . we need rather more concern about how much we be borrow in - year and in the next year , because those two thing be much more forecastable . I be not in favour of any expansion in the amount of borrowing plan for this year or next year . we have quite a lot of debt , which be why I have try to identify way in which the budget arithmetic and the fiscal arithmetic could look rather well if we cut the taxis that can generate more revenue and those that have a cost , but balance that with reduction in expenditure . I have look at two big pot : Bank of England loss and productivity shortfall . there be a third area to look for saving , which I know the Government be actively pursue : get people back into work and help , support and encourage those who feel that they can not return to the workforce to be able to do so . I trust that this be generally support around the Committee . it could enrich those people ' s life and raise their standard of living , but it could also add to our tax revenue and therefore make low taxis or well public service that much more affordable . my only criticism of the Government ' s effort on this be that I would just like they to speed up . this need do more quickly and on a big scale . the idea that we have hear and the work that have be put in be , on the whole , very sensible , but we need well result , because a large number of people do not feel that they can be part of the workforce at the moment , and I be sure that some of they could be well off if they feel they be get the right support . working have to be worth while , and that also require the policy change that be now go through to say that we be not always go to invite people in legally from abroad to do low - pay job when what we want be well - pay job in Britain and more job that engage the potential british workforce who be definitely out there . I do not think we need the two new clause kindly propose by Labour , which probably already have quite a lot of the knowledge that the new clause seek , as the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) imply . if we do not increase the threshold , of course more people will end up pay tax . I do not want too many more people pay the high rate of tax , but to get an upward shift in the threshold in due course , we will need to go over the issue to see where we could free up some cash . the Government should look at the loss , the employment situation and productivity to find their crock of gold , and then we can all be happy . I call the SNP spokesman . as we scrutinise the Finance ( no . 2 ) bill in detail , start with clause 1 to 4 , we see that the legislation serve as a profound symbol of a Government who have run aground . the Bill starkly expose the UK Government ' s complacency in the face of the cost of living crisis that continue to devastate home across Scotland and , indeed , the other nation of the UK . household be still reel from the catastrophic decision make by this Westminster Government . as we have hear from the Government , clause 1 to 4 be about household income , but the Bill fall dramatically short of meet the urgent need in our community . I be use to this place lack in humanity , but where be the humanity ? it be never show on these domestic issue . People in our community need and want help . they want to know how they will pay for their soar mortgage bill , their food bill — up by more than a quarter in the past two year — their ballooning car insurance premium , their energy bill , which be still nearly 60 % high than in the winter of 2021 - 22 , accord to Library research , and much else . the clause before the Committee do not really get to that issue . the shadow Minister be right to talk about the per capita gdp issue in the UK , which be an utter disgrace , but what be labour ' s plan ? More Brexit , more austerity and more be wed to the fiscal rule that get we into this place . this be a damp and ineffective piece of navel - gaze from folk who have the wrong idea in the first place . time and again , that idea have fail , but they have repackage it and put it forward once more . austerity be bust . it do not work , and it be madness for both the Conservative party and the Labour party to continue pursue it , but that be what they do . this broken institution be not listen to people . clause 1 and 2 could have invest in the economy . the Minister talk about devolution , but instead of devolution of investment , we be get the devolution of his cut . the spring Budget slash scottish capital funding by 16 . 1 % , severely restrict Scotland ' s aspiration for new hospital and more . I note that the shadow Minister be happy to quote the Institute for Fiscal Studies , and Labour and the Tories be both maintain what the Institute for Fiscal Studies have call a " conspiracy of silence " on the magnitude of the cut require in the come Parliament . the former labour leader in Scotland , Kezia Dugdale , make it clear in an article publish today that vote for Labour in Scotland would mean that people have to pay for tuition fee , and possibly for prescription and personal care . they be likely to see few child poverty intervention such as the scottish child payment , an SNP initiative that be already lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . if they vote for Labour , people in Scotland be likely to see those thing scale back . that be the reality of the future under labour : more austerity . vote for a compliant , so - call Scottish Labour will have real - life consequence for the people of Scotland . although we will support labour ' s new clause 1 and 4 , which would offer some scrutiny of what be go wrong with the Government ' s policy , Labour be ultimately only slavishly follow this horrible , extremist , wear - out and clueless Tory Government , who be hollow out by their right wing . it be testament to a Government devoid of idea and vision , in this fag - end Parliament characterise by minimal legislative activity , that the Bill contain a mere 26 clause , compare with last year ' s 352 . can the hon . Gentleman tell we why Scotland grow less quickly than England , despite have more public spending per head ? have the right hon . Gentleman do any real research , he would know that the figure for the UK be skew dramatically by the overheat economy of London and the south - east , which buck the UK trend . if he look at the figure for all the county of England , include those in the north of England , he will see how the Government be let down the people of England across the piece . but of course he do not want to do that . he just want to make a lazy characterisation of what be happen , say nothing about people ' s potential , which be be ignore and run down by this place , this Government and the official Opposition , who have no idea how to change that . clause 1 to 4 aim to maintain the current rate of income tax , include the savings rate , for another financial year . however , they do little to mitigate the Government ' s broad fiscal misstep . in contrast , Scotland ' s progressive approach to income tax under the SNP — I almost choke when we hear about progressive taxation early — have not only shield public service from Westminster ' s austerity but enhance they , generate approximately £ 1 . 5 billion in additional revenue . we be protect those on low income , because most people in Scotland pay less income tax and dramatically less council tax than people in England . all the scare story about people leave Scotland because of its progressive policy have prove to be rubbish . the report from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have show that more high - rate taxpayer have move to Scotland . the revenue that the Scottish Government be attract support a wide array of social benefit , from free prescription to university tuition , which significantly reduce the cost of live for scottish resident . those be all thing that this Parliament would attack , and Kezia Dugdale have today post a warning about what would happen if Labour get its hand on the Scottish Parliament . new clause 5 , in my name , would require the UK Government to review the impact of the tax measure announce in the spring Budget on Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . the Committee will , of course , recognise that the nation and region of the UK differ in key respect — in their strength , their weakness and their need . to a large extent , the UK tax system operate as though economic and social condition be uniform across these isle , so I would like the Government to consider what impact this universal approach to central taxation be have on different part of the UK , in the hope that a well understanding of such matter will help to inform and improve tax policy decision . the laudable ambition to level up the nation and region of the UK be testament to the different circumstance prevail across these isle . the Welsh tax base be different from other in the UK . wage in Wales be much low than the UK average , productivity be low , and our proportion of elderly citizen be high . we should ensure that the tax system reflect that reality and , at the very least , we should make sure that we fully understand the differential impact of tax decision , whether it be the freezing of the personal allowance , reduction to national insurance contribution , or decision on corporation tax , on different area . I concede , of course , that some fiscal devolution have take place and that the Welsh Government have the power to set supplementary Welsh rate of income tax . however , these power be not as advanced as those possess by the Scottish Parliament , which allow the Scottish Government to create new income tax band threshold to well tailor their tax system to the specific need of the scottish people . a review of the impact of income tax policy specifically on Wales could include look at how it interact with the current Welsh rate of income tax and inform the debate on any further devolution of tax - raise power to Wales in the future . extend the review to other devolve nation would allow for a comparative study on how UK tax policy interplay with the different fiscal devolution settlement in place across these island , which would also be to the benefit of future tax policy decision and any Government levelling - up strategy . follow Brexit , the UK Government could have be extremely radical : they could have devolve corporation tax to Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , and they could have fully devolve income tax and vat . be it not amazing that follow Brexit , and all the pain that it have cause , there be a complete lack of ambition about use any power that Brexit enable ? I could not agree more . we be tell that one of the suppose benefit of withdraw from the European Union would be the liberty to tailor our tax power ; to devolve they to different part of the UK in a bespoke way , so as to promote growth and well reflect the need of the people . I agree that it be remarkable that the UK Government have thus far fail to make real the suppose benefit of Brexit . this review of tax policy could touch on those thing . it would also be useful give the important link between tax decision and public spending and , indeed , economic growth . be a future Parliament to grant these tax power to Wales , would the hon . Gentleman think that in order to promote fast growth in Wales he should cut taxis below english rate , or would he put they high than english rate ? I be not one to make up policy on the hoof , but the review could look at that , and if the evidence show that tax decision could be make to promote growth and to level up , which I think the right hon . Gentleman be in favour of , we should follow that evidence and do so . our continued reliance on the Barnett formula to allocate fund between the UK ' s nation be problematic not only due to its flaw , but because of its inconsistent application in recent year , which have mean that Wales have lose out on billion of pound of much - need public investment . member will be familiar with the concern raise by community across Wales regard the way in which hs2 spending have be classify . although not a single inch of track or rail be to be lay in Wales itself , it be categorise as an England and Wales project under the statement of funding policy , thus deprive Wales of significant consequential funding that the Barnett formula would otherwise have provide . the late estimate suggest that Wales have lose £ 4 billion in consequential funding — money that could have transform the country ' s public transport infrastructure . I understand that there will be reluctance within Government to move away from the Barnett formula , not least because devise a needs - base formula be far from simple . however , if we be to retain the Barnett formula , the funding floor should at the very least be update to use census datum from 2021 rather than the 2001 datum it currently use . I be sure the Minister will agree that much have change since 2001 — when I be actually still in primary school . the need and population of Wales have change considerably , so it be only reasonable that the funding floor element of the Barnett formula be at least bring up to date . such a consideration could be include in the review that I propose , as well as a review of the implication of UK tax policy in Wales . again , all of this analysis and information could help inform debate for future tax policy decision and ultimately ensure that we have a tax system that be fit for purpose and meet the need of people in Wales . I thank the member who have speak for their contribution to the debate . as we have discuss , the Government have show their commitment to keep taxis low in order to support people to keep more of what they earn . that be why we have nearly double the income tax personal allowance since 2010 , ensure that some of the low earner do not pay income tax , while also benefit high - rate taxpayer . the Government have show that we be also committed to ensure that old people can live with the dignity and respect they deserve , and the state pension be the foundation of state support for they . thank to the Government honour our commitment to the triple lock , the basic and new state pension increase by 8 . 5 % this April — one of the large ever cash increase in the state pension . those on the new full state pension will therefore be £ 900 per year well off . that £ 900 figure be significant , because of course that be the average amount by which 27 million employee will benefit from the national insurance cut : £ 900 additional for many pensioner and £ 900 additional for 27 million worker . I think most people will agree that be fair . of course , the tax system treat pensioner fairly . Pensioners whose sole income be the full rate of the basic or new state pension do not currently pay any income tax . individual work above the state pension age also do not pay national insurance contribution , mean they already pay a low rate of tax on their income from work . this mean that someone over the state pension age earn the average salary of £ 34 , 500 pay £ 1 , 826 less tax than someone underneath the state pension age as no national insurance contribution be pay on that income . turn to the amendment to the income tax measure , new clause 1 , 4 and 6 would require the Government to publish report provide information on the number of income tax payer by their marginal rate , the number of pensioner pay income tax and their average tax liability . these report would cover past year and forecast for future year . the Government consider these amendment to be unnecessary give the information that be already publicly available . HMRC publish statistic for past year that cover the number of income tax payer , include breakdown by marginal rate and age , and the Department for Work and Pensions publish figure for pensioner ' average income . the Office for Budget Responsibility be the Government ' s independent forecaster , and most recently it publish projection of the number of income tax payer for future year in its " economic and fiscal outlook " — efo — at the spring Budget . these also include breakdown by marginal rate . new clause 5 would require the Government to publish an analysis of the impact of the incoming corporation tax measure in this Finance Bill on Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . as member will know , income tax rate for non - save , non - dividend income in Scotland and Wales be set by their respective Parliaments . HMRC regularly publish income tax statistic that include breakdown by country — for example , it publish the number of taxpayer in each nation and break this down by their marginal rate of income tax and by their age and sex . corporation tax , which will be more substantially cover by the Exchequer Secretary later in proceeding , apply UK - wide , and clause 12 and 13 maintain the current approach from April 2025 . the OBR produce regular forecast on the impact of the current policy be apply in future year and HMRC analyse receipt and liability in its annual corporation tax statistic publication . we therefore believe that these new clause be unnecessary . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( Sir John Redwood ) for his comment — he always make consider and thoughtful contribution . he rightly point out the importance of the low - tax strategy adopt by this Government , which be of course an instinct of all Conservatives : we increase taxis out of necessary but always reduce they where possible out of choice . he be also right to point out the necessity of ensure that we increase public sector productivity give that , as he recognise , it have fall by about 5 . 9 % since the pandemic . we need to get that productivity level up again and go far . he will be aware that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be very focused on this area . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham raise many other comment that we have speak about directly , relate to the self - employ and the innovator of the UK economy , which I always take on board . he also mention the Bank of England , which of course be independent , and the separation of fiscal and monetary policy be a key feature of the UK ' s economic framework . the Government do not comment on the conduct or effectiveness of monetary policy , but I be sure that many people will have hear his comment . with the great respect , I will turn to the comment make by the Scottish National party spokesperson , whom I know well and like very much . I think even he will regret make comment such as a " right - wing extremist Government " — he know well than that . we be not a right - wing extremist Government . just to be clear , I be say that the Tories have be hollow out by the extremist on the right wing within their government , not that we have an extremist right - wing Government — that is , of course , for people out there to make their mind up about . I think the hon . Gentleman just dig even deeply there . as I say , I like he but I do not always like what he say . on income tax , I do not think that everybody in Scotland would share his enthusiasm for the scottish tax system , give that the threshold and rate be high , to the tune of up to 5 % . turn to my opposite number , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , I will try to avoid the d é j à vu all over again — we seem to have the same debate again and again . yet again we have hear a Labour party spokesman constantly talk Britain down , as if we be in some declinist environment of failure upon failure . that be not a characterisation of the UK , its economy or our constituent that I recognise . I wish he have great optimism and enthusiasm , and could support the UK economy and the worker to a great degree . after all , the UK be do incredibly well . the hon . member for Ealing North be right to recognise that all of our constituent be face extraordinarily difficult time , but he be wrong to believe that be something unique to the UK economy ; it be as a result of the pandemic and the cost of living challenge , which have have an impact right the way around the world . give the extraordinary circumstance that the whole developed world have find itself in , what be extraordinary be how the UK have perform so well . I wish he would recognise the great optimism and the potential future of the UK economy . for example , the International Monetary Fund have forecast that this country will grow fast than Germany , France , Italy and Japan over the next few year to 2028 - 29 . the hon . Gentleman should also recognise that since the Conservatives come to power in 2010 , the UK economy have generate an average of 800 job per day . since Brexit , the UK have go up the global export league table , from seventh to fourth . we be the second large exporter of service in the world and have reach record level of service export recently . we have overtake France to become the eighth large manufacturer in the world . we have the third large tech economy , after the United States and China . we have the large film , tv and creative industry sector in Europe , and one of the world ' s lead biotech and life science industry — again , it be the large in Europe . we be lead the world in renewable , with the first , second , third and fourth big offshore wind farm in the world . I could go on , but I will not detain the Committee too much long , Dame Eleanor . if the hon . Gentleman could recognise just one or a few of those success story , he might have great confidence in the UK economy and be able to talk it up . anybody aspire to be in government must champion the UK around the world , instead of talk we down . otherwise , the impact they would have on investment in the UK economy be appal . let I deal with the scaremongering in what the hon . member for Ealing North and other have be declare in the past few day about national insurance and the impact on pension — I find that behaviour deplorable . it could be complete scaremongering because , as we have say , he be not aware of how NI impact health and pension . the amount of money spend on pension be about £ 130 billion . welfare spending be £ 260 billion . nhs spending be £ 160 billion . that be far high than the total amount pay for by NI . so to try to suggest some direct correlation and say that reduce NI put pension at risk all of a sudden be either economically utterly incompetent or it be sheer scaremongere — neither be particularly attractive attribute in somebody aspire to be in government . I therefore hope that he will have the decency to take that back . as I say , this scaremongering of pensioner , from the whole Opposition Front Bench , be despicable , although we can perhaps expect it from the opposition . moreover , it be utterly hypocritical , because when we have the NI debate not so long ago , the Opposition spokespeople , the Opposition Front Benchers and the Leader of the Opposition say that they support our NI cut , but when it come to a vote they do not . that should make the british people ask : why would the Opposition say one thing and do another . first , I should say that be not a surprise to I , but could it also be that at some future point they might hope to be in a situation where they could reverse that decision and say , " we do not actually vote for it , after all " ? again , they should be straight with the british public . I thank hon . member for their contribution — some more than other . the debate will continue , but I hope that I have explain why we do not accept the new clause . I ask that the clause we have put forward should stand part of the Bill . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 to 4 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - Review of impact of section 2 " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the expect impact of section 2 of this Act . ( 2 ) the review must include analysis set out the number of individual taxpayer face a marginal tax rate in the tax year 2024 - 25 of — ( a ) the basic rate of 20 % , and ( b ) the high rate of 40 % . ( 3 ) for comparative purpose , the review must take account of — ( a ) equivalent actual figure to those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) for the tax year 2021 - 22 , 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 , and ( b ) equivalent project figure to those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) for the tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 and 2027 - 28 . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause require a review of how many people will be liable to pay income tax at 20 % and 40 % , and would compare figure for the current tax year with those for the three precede and three subsequent tax year . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Chris Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Samantha Dixon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch Gareth davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia kearn Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Robert Largan the Committee divide : Ayes 211 , Noes 276 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 4 - Review of impact of section 1 on pensioner " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the expect impact of section 1 of this Act on those over State Pension age . ( 2 ) the review must include analysis set out , for the tax year 2024 - 25 — ( a ) the total number of people over the State Pension age pay tax under section 1 , and ( b ) the average tax liability per person of those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) . ( 3 ) for comparative purpose , the review must take account of equivalent project figure to those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( 2 ) ( b ) for the tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 and 2027 - 28 . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause require a review of how many pensioner will be liable to pay income tax this year and in each of the next three year , and what the average pensioner ' s tax bill will be in each of those year . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Chris Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Samantha Dixon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch Gareth davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia kearn Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Craig Tracey Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Robert Largan the Committee divide : Ayes 212 , Noes 274 . question accordingly negative . clause 12 - charge and main rate for Financial Year 2025 Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : clause 13 and 19 stand part . new clause 2 — Review of impact of section 12 — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor must , within three month of this Act be pass , conduct a review of the impact of section 12 of this Act . ( 2 ) the review must consider how the rate of corporation tax provide for by section 12 affect — ( a ) investment decision take by business , ( b ) the certainty of business about future fiscal and market condition . ( 3 ) for comparative purpose , the review must include an assessment of how the factor in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) would be affect by maintain corporation tax at a rate no high than that set out in section 12 until the end of the next parliament . " this new clause require the Chancellor to conduct a review of how the rate of corporation tax set by the Bill set out in clause 12 affect business investment and certainty , include what the effect would be of cap it at its current level for the next Parliament . new clause 3 — analysis of the impact of the energy security investment mechanism — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish an analysis of the possible impact of the energy security investment mechanism on — ( a ) revenue from the energy profit levy , and ( b ) investment decision involve business liable to pay the energy profit levy . ( 2 ) the analysis under subsection ( 1 ) must consider how the impact in ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( 1 ) ( b ) would be affect by amend the definition of a qualifying accounting period , as set out in section 1 of the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 , to be one that end before the end of the next Parliament . ( 3 ) in this section , the " energy security investment mechanism " mean the mechanism introduce by section 17a of the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 , as insert by section 19 of this Act . " this new clause seek to establish the impact on revenue and investment decision of the energy security investment mechanism be introduce , and how this impact would be affect in a scenario where end date for the energy profit levy be amend to be before the end of the next Parliament . new clause 7 — Review of impact of section 13 on small and medium enterprise — " ( 1 ) within 3 month of this Act be pass , the Chancellor of the Exchequer must lay before the House of Commons a report assess the impact of section 13 on small and medium enterprise . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must consider the extent to which pay corporation tax at the small profit rate , rather than a high rate , enable small business to manage cost pressure include those arise from — ( a ) energy cost ; ( b ) staffing and recruitment cost ; ( c ) borrowing cost ; ( d ) raw material cost . " we now move on to debate clause 12 , 13 and 19 . before I delve into the detail of the clause , however , let I first briefly set out how they fit into this Finance Bill . the Government remain focused on take long - term decision to strengthen the economy by drive productivity , increase the number of people in high - wage , high - skilled job , and boost investment . the Government be also ensure that the tax system be as competitive as we can make it under very difficult economic circumstance . we have some of the most generous investment incentive among major economy , include full permanent expensing , which the OBR have forecast will generate almost £ 3 billion of additional business investment each year , or £ 14 billion over the next five year . it have forecast that that additional investment will increase GDP by 0 . 1 % by the end of the forecast . in addition to full expensing , we have an internationally competitive corporation tax rate — the low headline rate in the G7 — which this Bill legislate to maintain . I will now turn to clause 12 , 13 and 19 in more detail . clause 12 and 13 set the charge for corporation tax from April 2025 . this include both the main rate and the small profit rate , as well as the threshold at which those rate apply . the charge for corporation tax must be set every year . it be important to legislate annually in advance , as this provide certainty to large and very large company that pay tax in advance on the basis of their estimate tax liability . these clause maintain the current main rate of 25 % and the small profit rate of 19 % , as introduce in April 2023 . tax certainty be of great importance to business — I think that be something we can all agree on — and clause 12 and 13 ensure that they will continue to benefit from stable and predictable tax rule . by maintain the current rate , the Government have strike the right balance between remain competitive and raise vital revenue . clause 19 make change to ensure that the energy profit levy will no long apply if oil and gas price return to historically normal level for a sustained period of time . it do so by introduce legislation to give effect to the energy security investment mechanism , or ESIM . the EPL be introduce in 2022 , at a time of near - record high oil and gas price , but it be right that should those price return to historically normal level , the additional tax would cease to apply . the detail of how the ESIM operate be set out in the technical note publish alongside the 2023 autumn statement ; this Bill simply put that detail on a legislative footing and provide for secondary legislation to legislate for the administrative detail of how that check be make . current oil and gas price be high than normal , and obr projection indicate that high price will persist over the next five year . the ESIM be a mechanism that switch off the EPL if , for a period of six month , the average price of both oil and gas fall below set threshold . those threshold be currently $ 74 . 21 per barrel for oil and 50p per therm for gas , and be base on a 20 - year historical average to the end of 2022 — before high energy price begin — and be adjust each April base on the annual change in the precede December ' s consumer price index . [ Official Report , 24 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 15wc . ] ( Correction ) by provide certainty on the condition under which the levy will be disapplie , the Government be support investor confidence in the sector and help to protect domestic energy supply , the economy , and of course job . clause 12 and 13 provide certainty to business by maintain the current rate of corporation tax , and clause 19 have be welcome by the oil and gas operator and their investor , with the ESIM provide the sector with certainty to support future investment in the UK — in job and in our energy security — while also ensure fairness to taxpayer . I therefore commend these clause to the Committee . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Evans , for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Opposition to new clause 2 and 3 , which be in my name and that of my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) . early this afternoon , we press the Government on the impact of tax rise , particularly stealth tax rise , on family and pensioner . of course , it be not only taxpayer and their family who be struggle to make end meet under the Conservatives . business in Britain be struggle too , and when I meet those from business across all sector , of all size and in different part of the country , they be clear that they want a Government who support they to succeed and grow . what the people I speak to from business want from Government , first and foremost and above all else , be stability , predictability and a plan for growth . stability be greatly prize by business , which want to make decision about investment and growth , which be critical to create job and make people across Britain well off . that stability be nowhere to be see under the Conservatives , who have be govern , in a fairly loose sense of the word , through chaos and u - turn . that need to change if Britain be to reach its potential , and it will change if we win the next general election . if we do , Labour will bring the stability that business need to plan ahead . one of the key way that we have pledge to offer business the stability and predictability that they need be through our plan for a road map for business taxation . as the shadow Chancellor have set out , Labour would publish this road map in our first six month in office to give business the stability , predictability and long - term plan that be so important to make investment decision . we have already pledge that our road map will include our commitment to cap corporation tax at 25 % , and with that in mind , we have table new clause 2 . it set out our commitment , if we win the next general election , to bring certainty back for business by cap the rate of corporation tax at 25 % for the whole of the next Parliament . we would take action if tax change in other advanced economy threaten to undermine UK competitiveness , but we believe that the current rate of 25 % , the low in the G7 , strike the right balance between what our public finance need and keep our corporation tax competitive in the global economy . I hope Treasury Ministers accept our new clause , or if not , perhaps they would like to take this opportunity to follow our lead and also commit to a 25 % cap on corporation tax for the whole of the next Parliament if they win the next general election . this be an opportunity for Ministers to show that they understand the importance of stability and certainty . if the Minister would like to intervene to match our commitment to cap corporation tax , I would be happy to give way . no ? why not ? maybe his boss do not agree . let we not forget that two year ago , the current Chancellor go from advocate a four - point cut in corporation tax to advocate a six - point rise within just a few month . no wonder the Conservatives struggle to make any commitment on tax certainty now . the truth be that the Conservatives have become unable to offer the stability and predictability that business need to invest . that stability be crucial to encourage private sector investment and get our economy grow . our pledge on cap corporation tax and publish a business taxation road map sit alongside our wide approach to offer stability , not least through our iron - clothe fiscal rule , our new fiscal lock , and our respect for independent economic institution . I know from our conversation with so many business that there be huge potential for private sector investment in Britain , and I know how vital a stable Government be for that to be realise , because business want and need a Government who will offer they a partner in growth . they need a Government who will offer stability , provide strategic public investment and reform the way our country work , in order to bring down the barrier to growth . that be how Government should be work with business to help they grow , create job and make people across Britain well off . alongside clause 12 and 13 on corporation tax , this group focus on clause 19 , which introduce a new energy security investment mechanism in relation to the energy profit levy or windfall tax . as I set out on Second Reading , we fully support the mechanism . we very much welcome the signal it send , which will help with investor confidence in the UK ' s offshore energy sector . as we have set out , if we win the next general election , Labour will make the windfall tax strong , in order to raise more revenue to support our country ' s energy transition . however , as we have also set out , we want to give as much certainty as possible to the company affect . that be why our new clause 3 set out our commitment that if we win the next election , the energy profit levy will end no later than the end of the next Parliament . we make that commitment when we announce our plan , and it be now in the new clause before we . we recognise that , by its very nature , the windfall tax be a one - off levy in response to extraordinary profit , so it be right to be clear about when it will come to an end . let I be clear that our reason for want to extend and strengthen the windfall tax be to raise revenue that we need to support our country ' s transition to clean energy . this critical transition will create job in the industry of the future , bring down bill for household and business , and give we energy security and independence . our plan be to make this transition by 2030 , and we need to work hand in hand with the private sector to make that ambitious aim a reality . many of the firm pay the windfall tax be the same one that be and will be invest in the clean energy industry of the future . many of those firm ' employee will work in the clean energy industry of the future , too . we be commit to work closely with all those business and employee affect , include through great British Energy , which will be our new national energy champion , base in Scotland , and through our new national wealth fund to manage this important transition together . as I have set out , if Labour win the next general election , we will form a new Government who can once again be a reliable and effective partner to business , to help they grow . we will offer stability with our corporation tax cap , our road map for business taxation , and our commitment to unbreakable fiscal rule . that stability will help business consider investment decision , as will our strategic public investment , part fund by the windfall tax , which will help crowd in private sector funding . we will make sure that investment can achieve its potential by reform the way that our country work . from plan to pension and grid connection , we will remove barrier that stand in the way of economic growth . that be how we will get the economy grow after 14 year of economic failure from the Conservatives . as I say early this afternoon , if the UK economy have grow under the Conservatives at the rate of the OECD average , it would now be £ 140 billion large , provide an additional £ 50 billion in tax revenue to invest in our public service . instead , the legacy of the Conservatives ' time in office be one of low growth , work people bad off and taxis rise while public service decline . ahead of the general election , people will ask themselves whether they and their family feel well off than they do 14 year ago . they will ask themselves whether our hospital , our school or our police work well . frankly , they will ask whether anything in Britain work well than it do when the Conservatives come into office 14 year ago . the choice at the general election will be between five more year of chaos with the Conservatives , or stability with a change Labour party , and our long - term plan to make work people well off . the Conservatives may try to claim that Britain ' s economy have turn a corner , but the truth be that the british people want to turn the page . it be time for a general election . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . Gentleman . I wish to speak briefly on clause 12 stand part and the new clause to which he have just speak . clause 12 be a simple clause . the title be " charge and main rate for financial year 2025 " , and it state : " corporation tax be charge for the financial year 2025 … the main rate of corporation tax for that year be 25 % . " just over four year ago , I be re - elect to this House on a conservative party manifesto that say that we would keep corporation tax at 19 % and would not increase it . as the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) just remind we , the Chancellor of the Exchequer think that 19 % be far too high , and he have a radical proposal to reduce it to 15 % . at the time , I do not buy into that leadership bid of his , but it be clear now that it be an extraordinary gesture , completely at odd with what he must believe , because I presume that he support clause 12 , which set corporation tax for the follow year at 25 % . that be far too high . I vote against the increase originally , and if clause 12 stand part be press to a Division today , I would certainly vote against it . it be with some incredulity that I listen to the hon . member for Ealing North . his new clause 2 talk about review the impact of section 12 . the incoherent subsection ( 1 ) say : " the Chancellor must , within three month of this Act be pass , conduct a review of the impact of section 12 of this Act . " obviously , section 12 will not come into effect until the 2025 financial year , while the Bill will be on the statute book within a couple of month . what would be the point of conducting , within three month of that date , a review into something that will not come about until next year ? if the new clause mention review the impact of the current high level of corporation tax , I would be with he . [ interruption . ] he be shout at I from a sedentary position . I will happily give way to he , so that he can make his point . let we have a debate . if he do not want to engage in debate , so be it . all I be do be read out the term of the hon . Gentleman ' s new clause 2 . if he wish to resile from that , let he say so . I be sure that , even at this late stage , Mr Evans , you would accept he withdraw the new clause because its term do not bear out what he be tell we . the hon . Gentleman invite I to respond . the key point of the new clause , as I be sure he realise , be to make it clear that Labour would cap corporation tax at 25 % for the whole of the next Parliament . do he agree with that ? no , I do not , because that would be cap corporation tax at far too high a level . I would like to see it reduce , ideally back to 19 % , as soon as possible . I certainly would not support any notion that we should stick with a 25 % rate for the duration of the next Parliament . that intervention be interesting . if that be the purpose of the hon . Gentleman ' s new clause , I think we can say that it be rather opaque , because it do not say , for example , " between 2025 and 2030 , corporation tax shall be set at the rate of 25 % " . it say that there should be " a review of the impact of section 12 of this Act . " what would the review look at ? one thing would be how the 25 % rate of corporation tax provide for by section 12 have affect " investment decision take by business " . surely we know — I think he say so in his remark — that have corporation tax set at 25 % adversely affect business make investment decision , include decision on whether to increase their investment , or whether to invest in the United Kingdom for the first time . it be because such adverse investment decision have be take by business that , as he accept , we have low growth , couple with rise taxis and a stagnant economy . it surprise I that more of my colleague do not wish to engage in this debate . I very much support those Government Members who believe that the Chancellor of the Exchequer ' s main objective should be to grow our economy , rather than stifle it through high taxis and more regulation , which seem to be what be happen . in a sense , the hon . Gentleman have answer his own question — high rate of corporation tax adversely affect investment decision take by business — so why do we need a review to establish that ? how can he both want a review because he do not know the answer to that question , and be so confident about its result that he can announce today that corporation tax will be at 25 % for the next five year ? it seem a pointless exercise . one be leave with the feeling that the main party have very similar policy on many aspect of taxation . that be what I have be say . both party support very high level of tax . they be not as high as the hon . member for Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey ( Drew Hendry ) would like they to be , but who know ? if there be a Labour Government , then where Scotland lead on taxation , I be sure that the rest of the United Kingdom will follow . when he respond , I would like the Minister to take up the challenge from the hon . member for Ealing North and tell we whether he support 25 % for the next four or five year . I would like he to say , " no , 25 % be far too high . perhaps we have to put up with 25 % for 2025 , but thereafter , if re - elect , we the Conservatives will reduce corporation tax steadily back to 19 % , or even to 15 % , as the Chancellor of the Exchequer aspire to do . " I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s contention that there be no real difference between the Tories ' proposal and those of the Labour party — a point I have make many time . do he agree that progressive taxation in Scotland have see the majority of taxpayer pay less , and those who have a bit more pay more ? more high - rate taxpayer have move to Scotland during that time , which have protect some of the service . that be not on offer on either side of this House . the hon . Gentleman misunder - stand the dynamic effect of taxation . I be privileged to be in this House when the then Chancellor of the Exchequer , the late Lord Lawson of Blaby , announce the dramatic reduction in the top rate of tax to 40p in the pound . as a consequence of that reduction , the overall tax yield go up . the burden on individual be reduce , thereby cause they to work hard to retain their energy for what be happen in our economy , rather than take their talent overseas . the hon . gentleman talk about want a progressive tax rate in Scotland , but that lead to people become collectively poor . we can see from recent statistic that the scottish economy be stumble and fail , because of the misguided policy of the Scottish National party . that be a bit off the point of whether we support keep corporation tax at 25 % . I certainly do not , and I hope we get confirmation that the Government have aspiration to reduce corporation tax . when my hon . friend the Minister open the debate , he say that we need to be stable and predictable . he praise our system of complicated allowance against corporation tax . I would support more tax simplification . if we keep the basic rate down and reduce the allowance , that make taxation simple and reduce the need for extra people in his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to deal with all that . it probably undermine the burgeon accountancy profession , but that be not necessarily a bad thing . whatever happen to tax simplification ? a specific committee be set up to deal with tax simplification and measure use to be bring before this House . that have all be abandon in favour of evermore complex tax arrangement . far from be stable and predictable , they be unstable and unpredictable because no one know how those extra complication will be avoid or exploit by those affect . hon . member can tell that I be not a happy bunny on this issue , because we be not commit to reduce corporation tax in the long term . we do not seem to recognise the adverse impact that it have on our productive economy and our ability as a nation to grow that economy and thereby provide the extra revenue we need for public service . I also despair that there be so few of my own colleague who wish to reinforce the point and get the message out to our constituent and to business in our constituency . that message be " Stick with we , because we find the current level of corporation tax intolerable . we introduce they because of extraneous circumstance over which we say we have too little control , but do not worry : as soon as those extraneous circumstance be remove from the equation , we will revert to be a low corporation tax party . " let we have an announcement to that effect today . in the meantime , however , let I say that if clause 12 be put to the vote , I shall vote against it , and I shall certainly vote against new clause 2 for the reason I have give . rise — order . give that we be not really press for time today , unless Mr Hendry intend to speak for up to four hour — I do not intend to do so . yes , I can see that . as both candidate be present , I will now announce the result of the ballot hold today for the election of the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee : 290 vote be cast , two of which be invalid , and Dame Jackie Doyle - Price be elect with 161 vote . she will take up her post immediately . I congratulate she on her election . the result of the count will be make available as soon as possible in the Vote Office and will be publish on the internet . we now come to the four - hour speech from Drew Hendry . thank you , Mr Evans . I will do my good to accommodate your request , as usual . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak to clause 12 and 13 . the fact be that these clause maintain the status quo on corporate taxation while fail to support sector in dire need , such as our hospitality industry , which have see more than 500 closure in the past year alone . the SNP have repeatedly call for measure such as vat relief for that sector to alleviate the pressure , but the UK Government have consistently ignore our call , thus demonstrate a clear disregard for the economic challenge face Scotland . where be the support for our town centre and high street ? enterprise initiative such as " vat - free street " could help to breathe new life into our vital centre . the SNP have call for urgent help , but again Westminster just shrug its shoulder and ignore its responsibility for the damage cause through its calamitous but — as we have see , and it be worth repeat — unanimous devotion to a disastrous Brexit , to waste and to mismanagement . the propose energy security investment mechanism , adjust the parameter for windfall taxis on the basis of oil and gas price , represent a miss opportunity to genuinely bolster our energy security and accelerate our transition to net zero . rather than leverage these revenue to mitigate energy cost for household who , as I say in our previous debate , be struggle under the current punishing cost of living crisis , or to invest in sustainable growth — and probably the only industrial strategy available to we be investment in renewable energy — this mechanism be poise to jeopardise up to 100 , 000 job and hinder our environmental goal . moreover — and there be no hiding place — the Labour party ' s screech u - turn on the £ 26 billion a year require to stimulate the industrial green transition , which its member know their own adviser have say be the minimum require , and on its proposal to intensify the windfall tax to fund nuclear project in England be entirely unacceptable , mean the utilisation of Scotland ' s resource for project that contravene our national interest . we will support Labour ' s new clause 3 , because at the very least it will show the opportunity that have be waste , and the squandering of Scotland ' s natural resource , in a clear light . however , the Bill underscore a critical disconnect between the need of the scottish people and the action of this Government , and indeed this place of Westminster . it be a Bill that perpetuate inequality , neglect economic innovation and leave our most vulnerable citizen to bear the brunt of its failure . have debate these clause today , let we be mindful of the stark reality : only a government attune to the aspiration and challenge of Scotland can genuinely deliver the change we urgently need . that Government should have all the power to make the change need to represent the value of the scottish people . that need to be the Government of an independent Scotland that seek to regain our equal seat at the centre of the European Union . I be wait for a four - hour speech and it never come — that be four minute , but what a four minute ! let I thank hon . member for their contribution to today ' s debate . I will respond to some of the point that have be raise at the end of my remark , but before do so let I directly address some of the new clause that have be table . new clause 2 seek the publication of a review into how the rate of corporation tax set by the Bill , as set out in clause 12 , affect business investment and certainty , include what the effect would be of cap it at its current level over the next Parliament . I agree that it be important to regularly review and evaluate policy , and the Government keep all tax policy under review . the Office for Budget Responsibility produce regular forecast , include of project corporation tax receipt and business investment . these forecast be base on the rate and threshold that currently apply , and which clause 12 maintain from April 2025 to provide advance certainty to business . the late of the forecast already look as far ahead as 2028 - 29 on the basis of the corporation tax rate , which currently stand at 25 % , so no further action be require from the Government . the Bill maintain the small profit rate of corporation tax at 19 % , but do the Minister not agree that this be a drop in the ocean compare with spiral cost in energy , staffing , borrowing and a host of other area ? the Chancellor could have use the opportunity to give small business a boost by reform business rate , or by help they with their energy bill through a proper windfall tax . do the Minister support new clause 7 , table by the Liberal Democrats , which would ensure that the Government must lay before the House a review of the impact of the small profit rate to look at whether it really help small business to manage their cost . I will give the hon . Lady the courtesy of address new clause 7 in due course . she be right to highlight that the new rate for small business will keep around 70 % of business in the country at 19 % when those that be most profitable move to 25 % , but look at the entire package of support for small business . it show that the Government be supportive of our high street and small business entrepreneur across the country , whether that be through the increase in vat threshold , the 75 % rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business , or all the support that we provide during the covid pandemic and throughout the energy shock , include the energy bill relief scheme and the energy bill support scheme . I put it to she that we be behind our small business . we regard they as the engine of our growth , and we will continue to do everything we can to support they . I will come on to new clause 7 in a moment , if I may . new clause 3 would require a review of the possible impact of the energy security investment mechanism on energy profit levy revenue , and on investment decision in the oil and gas sector . it would require this assessment to be make on the basis of the end date of the EPL fall before the end of the next Parliament . the Government have already publish the tax information and impact note , which set out the anticipated impact of the energy security investment mechanism — the ESIM . this indicate clearly that the mechanism will give operator and lender to the oil and gas industry confidence in the fiscal regime while the EPL remain over the next Parliament . base on the OBR ' s current price projection , the ESIM be not predict to trigger before the end of the EPL in March 2029 , and be therefore expect to have no impact on EPL revenue . in addition , should there be interest in calculate forgone revenue if the EPL be to end in a particular year , the OBR have publish project EPL revenue over the forecast period , and the impact of the EPL end early can be calculate from this publicly available information that be there for all to see . regard the assessment of the investment decision within the oil and gas sector , the Government have be clear that they want oil and gas company to reinvest their profit here in the United Kingdom , and by legislate for the ESIM we be give these company and their investor the confidence that if price fall , the EPL will cease . this allow the sector to continue invest in the economy , in job and in UK energy security while ensure fairness to the taxpayer , as I say early . indeed , when the ESIM be first introduce , the Offshore Energies UK trade body agree that the ESIM be a step in the right direction to support confidence and investment in the sector . however , it should be note that there be of course commercial decision to be make , and it be not possible for the Government to make an assessment of the impact of the ESIM on the decision of commercial organisation . new clause 7 seek the laying of a report before this House within three month , assess the impact of clause 13 on how small and medium enterprise manage their cost . the introduction of the small profit rate last year keep the rate of corporation tax at 19 % for company with profit of less than £ 50 , 000 , and the availability of marginal relief mean that company with profit between £ 50 , 000 and £ 250 , 000 pay below the main rate of 25 % . this ensure that company have great post - tax profit to reinvest , to distribute and to retain to cover future cost and any shock in the economy . clause 13 simply maintain this approach from April 2025 onwards , provide advance certainty to taxpayer . more broadly , it should be note that our corporation tax rule be base on the fundamental principle of tax profit net of cost . HMRC already release its corporation tax statistic publication annually , which break down datum on corporation tax liability by the size of company . once tax return cover the period since the small profit rate be introduce come in , this will be reflect in the datum , but I be afraid that that will not happen within the next three month . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) make a typically colourful speech . he make some very valid point , with which many in the Committee will agree . we all want tax to come down . as I say to the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , we have include a provision and a rate to ensure that 70 % of business — the small , least profitable business — maintain a rate of 19 % . we have to increase the rate in the face of an incredibly challenging environment on the back of covid and the war in Ukraine , when the Government step in with significant support for business , family and individual across the country . I can tell my hon . friend that the extension to 25 % will raise £ 85 billion , which will help to reduce our debt over the long term . we have introduce full permanent expensing , as my hon . friend mention , and I think it be fair to say that he be sceptical of that . however , it be call for directly and clearly by the CBI , make UK and a number of business that want to reinvest their profit into other endeavour and into plant and machinery . I put it to he that we should be look at the effective rate of taxation for a business , not just the headline rate , but that our headline rate for the large , most profitable business be , at 25 % , still the low in the G7 , which be the most comparable mix of country to look at . of course we want to see tax simplification in all our fiscal statement , which be why we decide to abolish multiple dwelling relief in our last fiscal event . it be also why the Chancellor have set out his long - term ambition to abolish national insurance contribution , which would simplify our tax system substantially . this be all in the context of a country that remain one of the most competitive in the world , but it be not just about taxation ; it be about planning , our rule of law and our amazing educational institution . that be why Tata recently invest in a 40 GW gigafactory in Somerset , it be why Ø rste have decide to build the world ' s big offshore wind farm in this country , and it be why AstraZeneca have decide to invest £ 450 million in a new R & D centre . investor look at a range of factor . it be not just about taxation ; it be also about regulation . it be remarkable that the shadow Minister do not mention the labour deputy leader ' s obsession with introduce 70 new regulation on business , which would hinder business investment . it be the certainty of a Labour Government ' s introduction of regulation that will hinder business investment , not anything that this Government have do in office . look at our achievement when it come to business investment , the fact remain clear . look ahead to the next Parliament , and hope that there will be a Conservative Government , can my hon . friend say to all those in the business community who be watch eagerly that a 25 % headline rate of corporation tax be too high , and that we want to lower it ? we agree . we want taxis to come down , but we be not go to announce tax decision from this Dispatch Box outside fiscal event . it be clear for all to see that this Conservative Government believe in low taxis . we have reduce national insurance contribution for 29 million people by some 30 % in just the last six month , and the record be very clear on that . the hon . Gentleman say that the Government be not in the habit of make policy commitment outside the normal fiscal process . do that mean the £ 46 - billion unfunded black hole create by the promise to abolish national insurance be no long a policy of this government ? it be neither unusual nor incorrect for a Government , or any party , to set out a long - term ambition to let the public know where we stand on taxation and what we want to see in the future . in 2010 , for example , we say that we want to increase the personal allowance for income tax to £ 10 , 000 , and we meet that . actually , we exceed it . it be now over £ 12 , 500 , so a person in this country can earn £ 1 , 000 every month without pay any tax at all . that be a long - term ambition that we have deliver . the Minister be be generous in give way . I notice that he be keen to talk about a long - term ambition to abolish national insurance . yesterday , the Chancellor of the Exchequer say at Treasury question that " our policy be to abolish employee ' national insurance " . — [ Official Report , 7 May 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 437 . ] be the Chancellor wrong ? as I say , it be a long - term ambition . it be right for a party that be serious about govern to set a direction for the country . I know it be an unusual idea for the hon . gentleman that have a plan for government be the right thing to do , but we have make it very clear to the british people that , if they vote for a Conservative Government at the next general election , their taxis will come down . the amendment before the Committee propose that we publish information that be already publicly available . they be not need , so I urge the Committee to reject they . question put and agree to . clause 12 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 13 and 19 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 2 - Review of impact of section 12 " ( 1 ) the Chancellor must , within three month of this Act be pass , conduct a review of the impact of section 12 of this Act . ( 2 ) the review must consider how the rate of corporation tax provide for by section 12 affect — ( a ) investment decision take by business , ( b ) the certainty of business about future fiscal and market condition . ( 3 ) for comparative purpose , the review must include an assessment of how the factor in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) would be affect by maintain corporation tax at a rate no high than that set out in section 12 until the end of the next parliament . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause require the Chancellor to conduct a review of how the rate of corporation tax set by the Bill set out in clause 12 affect business investment and certainty , include what the effect would be of cap it at its current level for the next Parliament . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Valerie vaz christian Wakeford Chris Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Samantha Dixon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch Gareth davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Steve double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia kearn Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Henry Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Craig Tracey Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Gagan Mohindra the Committee divide : Ayes 195 , Noes 266 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 3 - analysis of the impact of the energy security investment mechanism " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish an analysis of the possible impact of the energy security investment mechanism on — ( a ) revenue from the energy profit levy , and ( b ) investment decision involve business liable to pay the energy profit levy . ( 2 ) the analysis under subsection ( 1 ) must consider how the impact in ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( 1 ) ( b ) would be affect by amend the definition of a qualifying accounting period , as set out in section 1 of the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 , to be one that end before the end of the next Parliament . ( 3 ) in this section , the " energy security investment mechanism " mean the mechanism introduce by section 17a of the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 , as insert by section 19 of this Act . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause seek to establish the impact on revenue and investment decision of the energy security investment mechanism be introduce , and how this impact would be affect in a scenario where end date for the energy profit levy be amend to be before the end of the next Parliament . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Valerie vaz christian Wakeford Chris Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch Gareth davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Steve double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Henry Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Craig Tracey Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Gagan Mohindra Mark Fletcher the Committee divide : Ayes 198 , Noes 269 . question accordingly negative . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill ( Clauses 1 to 4 , 12 and 13 , and 19 ) report ( Standing Order no . 83d ( 6 ) ) , without amendment , and order to lie on the table . business of the House ( 13 May ) Motion make , and question propose , that , at the sitting on Monday 13 May , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Penny Mordaunt relate to risk - base Exclusion not later than two hour after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may be enter upon and may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) we have , I think , another hour and three quarter , or a little long , in which to debate this motion . the point I want to make at the outset be this : why be we waste so much valuable sit time because of the way the Order Paper be be arrange ? perhaps my right hon . friend the Leader of the House , who I hope will respond to this short debate , can explain to we how it come about that we have the good part of two hour to debate this motion , yet the motion state that we have two hour maximum to debate a much more important motion on Monday . that motion be in the name of the Leader of the House and relate to the exclusion of mps . we have , I think , four amendment table to the Finance Bill , but there be already eight amendment table to the motion for Monday , which show that there be quite a lot of interest in it . those amendment include one from the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , who wish we to go back to the situation that pertain in the original motion relate to the risk - base exclusion of mps . the original proposal be that member could be exclude just on the ground of suspicion . I table amendment against that proposal , together with colleague , and it be to the credit of the Leader of the House that she have come back with a revise motion that make it clear that exclusion would not begin to apply unless or until somebody have be charge with a violent or sexual offence . as one of the colleague who sign my hon . friend ' s suggest amendment , I find alarm the suggestion that an MP could be suspend on the basis of an allegation . it do not require much imagination to see certain circumstance in which an MP could be target by someone make a serious allegation with no factual underpinning whatsoever , and then have to be suspend . it be astonishing , frankly , that we could be put into such a situation on so flimsy a basis . I agree absolutely with my right hon . friend , to whom I be grateful for support my amendment to the original motion . I be sure that it will be of concern to he that the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) have table amendment ( h ) for debate on Monday , which would effectively take we back to the original motion by suggest that , instead of have to be charge , a Member would only have to be arrest on suspicion of commit an offence in order to be exclude from this House . on the previous intervention , I do not know how many rape , sexual violence or violence arrest the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) have handle , but an arrest do not happen on the basis of " flimsy " allegation ; it take week . I just put that on the record , as someone who deal with this week in , week out . the idea that somebody get arrest just on someone ' s say - so be for the bird . before we resume this debate , I point out that the motion before we be incredibly narrow . I fear that we may be have the debate that we will have on Monday , and we do not want that . this be just about the amount of time that will be allocate . the debate that we be sort of have now be really for Monday . I take that point absolutely , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I think we have already have a taste , from the couple of intervention , of the fact that this be a controversial subject , for which two hour of debate on Monday be inadequate . the purpose of this debate be to decide whether we believe that a motion limit debate on Monday to two hour be the right or wrong course , and I would suggest that it be the wrong course . while fully accept your guidance , Mr Deputy Speaker , I must say in response to the intervention from the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) that I say nothing about somebody who have be arrest . the original wording to which I object do not refer to someone have be arrest ; it be simply about whether somebody have be accuse of something . on the point about someone have be arrest , I might well agree with her interpretation ; it would depend on factor such as the bail circumstance . one issue be that people can be arrest and not know whether they will be charge for month , if not year . during that period , they be in limbo and under suspicion , but be , under the principle of justice in this country , innocent until prove guilty . I think it be reasonable , if somebody be charge with an offence , that the matter be move on , and that their identity be know . however , quite often , people may be arrest and their identity will not be know . the point I be make be that this be a controversial subject . the new motion that the Leader of the House have bring before we be more in line with what be propose in the other place , which probably have even more legal wisdom than this House . it decide in a similar debate that it would be wrong to exclude member from the parliamentary estate on the basis of suspicion or mere arrest , and that a charge be need . I submit that it be desirable to have consistent rule across the whole parliamentary estate , because people can move freely between the different part of the estate , so if somebody in the other place be subject to a different regime from somebody in this place , that will create extraordinary anomaly . however many hour we spend debate this , be the fundamental problem not that the aim be to do this by motion , rather than by legislation , and that any exclusion of a member except by a specific vote on that Member need to be a legislative requirement for attendance of the House , not a mere motion ? I agree wholeheartedly with my right hon . friend . indeed , that point could be make in Monday ' s debate without the need to discuss the amendment to which I have be refer , but why be we place a restriction of two hour on a debate on an issue of such fundamental importance ? my right hon . friend ' s point be another reason why we should not support a two - hour restriction on Monday ' s debate . I do not really understand why that limit be necessary , because Monday ' s Order Paper look very light , as indeed today ' s Order Paper have be . at the moment , just a couple of motion have be table , deal with regulation . why be it propose that everybody should again have an early night on Monday , and that we will arbitrarily impose upon ourselves a time limit for debate the important issue of risk - base exclusion ? it be quite a straightforward point . the Leader of the House have table the motion and be face with a number of amendment , include one on a very controversial topic : the issue of whether we should contaminate the whole proxy voting system in this House by allow somebody who have be charge with a sexual offence to benefit from proxy voting . why should they be allow to vote by proxy ? what be the justification for that ? if somebody be charge with a sexual offence , they would potentially have bail condition or custody condition impose as a consequence , and provide that there be no bail condition exclude that person from participate in the proceeding of the House , they should be able to continue that participation . should that not be the natural consequence ? instead , the motion table for Monday propose that a person would be entitle to a proxy vote in those circumstance . the reason I say that be controversial be because it would contaminate the whole proxy voting system . at the moment , a person with a proxy vote be a person who have a condition — either a medical condition , or they be expect a baby or be the father of a new baby , and so on . order . the hon . Gentleman ' s speech be get to the substance of Monday ' s debate . this debate be simply about the business of the House motion before we ; it be not about what we be go to be debate next week . can we be absolutely clear about that ? I know that Mr Evans have already make that clear , so I be just reinforce the point that we need to discuss what be before we , not the substance of next week ' s debate . Madam Deputy Speaker , I absolutely agree . my purpose in speak to this motion today be to try to illustrate by example the scope of the motion that be down for debate on Monday , and why two hour , in my submission , be an inadequate amount of time in which to discuss such a motion . the motion before the House today suggest that Standing Order No . 41a , on deferred division , shall not apply . I wonder whether my hon . friend think it be wise to put before the House motion that randomly suspend Standing Orders , or whether it be not important to maintain the integrity of Standing Orders , which , Madam Deputy Speaker , be clearly a legitimate part of today ' s motion . my right hon . friend make another very good point . we know that the Leader of the House — and he be a distinguished former Leader of the House — have two hat : they act as a member of the Government and on behalf of the Government , but they also defend the right of Back Benchers to have issue such as this properly debate . that be why I express openly my disappointment that the Leader of the House have choose to table a motion that would limit the amount of time for debate , instead of provide reasonable time for such a debate , which could be three hour . that would not be unusual , take into account the complexity of the issue . to give another example of the complexity of the issue , this have be debate in the House , at business question , in Committees , and by the House of Commons Commission , for the good part of a year . why have it take so long for it to be debate in those forum ? because it be a complex and controversial subject . it just seem to I that such a controversial and complex subject demand more time than have so far be allocate . however , there be no point in my repeat my point any more , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I certainly do not want to get myself in a position where I can not be call in the substantive debate on Monday , but I certainly look forward to that debate . I will follow on from my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who I think make some fantastic point . however , I want to start by commend the Leader of the House for listen to the previous concern and come back with a revise motion . we be particularly grateful that she have be , as my hon . Friend say , a representative of the House . she have listen and come back , and I commend she for it . none the less , I think my hon . friend be absolutely right when he say that two hour be insufficient for this subject . this be not about the right of member of Parliament alone , although obviously it be to some extent . it be mainly about the right of their constituent , who have a right to be represent in Parliament by the person they elect . the motion — I broadly support what be in it — be design , in effect , to deliberately restrict the right of those constituent to have their voice hear in Parliament . that be something that we in this House should interfere with only with great care , and certainly not on the back of a two - hour debate . with a two - hour debate , by the time the Front Benchers have have a go , set out their stall and all of the rest of it , the time leave for Back Benchers be limited . as anyone can see , the motion that have be table be quite extensive , with a number of different paragraph , and eight amendment have be table , as my hon . friend have say . if Front bencher want to set out their view on the motion and address the amendment , how much time will back Benchers get to speak ? I suspect it will not be very long at all . we be not really go to have time for a debate , but I think we see early — through the exchange of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch with my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) — that there be quite a significant debate to be have , and people will have strong opinion on different side of the argument . the whole point of be here be that we have a debate , and surely we can all see from this timetable that we be not go to have time for a proper debate . that can not be right . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch make this point about the business on Monday . I have no idea how long debate will last on the various regulation down for debate on Monday , on public procurement and agriculture , or how many urgent question and statement there might be and all the rest of it , but it be not impossible to envisage that those debate will not last very long . we could be in the absurd situation where we have business on a Monday that be suppose to run until 10 o ' clock but we rise early because the two - hour limit for this debate have be reach , with hour still to spare . why on earth would we unnecessarily restrict the debate before the normal end of the sit day ? we should at least make it clear that we can go on until the normal end of the sit day , if that come later . why can the motion not at least make clear that we could carry on until 10 o ' clock ? will my hon . friend emphasise that the debate schedule for Monday be not any ordinary debate ? it be a debate to change the Standing Orders of the House . as be point out to I by Enoch Powell when I be first on the Procedure Committee in 1984 , in the absence of a write constitution , the Standing Orders of this House be our constitution . be we really say that we should change our constitution in a time - limit debate this come Monday ? my hon . friend make a good point . in some respect , I be perhaps argue against my own self - interest here , because the change that the Leader of the House have make to the motion mean that I be broadly content with it . I would prefer to see certain minor change that we could perhaps tweak out , but there be probably other member who do not like the change that have be institute since the measure last appear before the House . their opportunity to speak against those change will now be severely curtail , and that be unfortunate to say the least . I simply ask that the Leader of the House think again about this measure . we can all see that two hour be not an adequate amount of time . there be scope to have more time for this debate on something that be of great importance to the right of member of Parliament , but mainly to their constituent , who want to be represent in this House by the people they have elect and for that to be curtail only where necessary . I hope that the Leader of the House will indicate that she will not move this motion today , withdraw it and think again . the motion before we this evening protect time for the debate on risk - base exclusion on Monday 13 May . it also ensure that any amendment select by Mr Speaker can be deal with at the conclusion of the debate . it be an important debate , and we have have a little rehearsal of some of the issue that may come up , and I do listen to colleague from all part of the House about the substance , as do my fellow Commissioners , and how much time be allow for the debate . as I announce last week , the House will be consider secondary legislation early that day . the effect of this motion be to ensure that the debate on risk - base exclusion can take place no matter how late it start , and it will have a guarantee amount of time . turn to the specific point that have be raise , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) mention the integrity of Standing Orders . I hope , as recent history show , that I put great emphasis on that point , have stand at this Dispatch Box and withdraw my side of this House from take part in an Opposition Day debate to protect the integrity of our procedure and process and how Standing Orders operate . I remind colleague that this be the second time that the House of Commons Commission have bring this motion forward . I have table the motion on behalf of the House of Commons Commission , and this scheme have be arrive at by the House of Commons Commission with input from different political party and a great deal of consultation . we have already have one debate on this matter that we do not bring to the Floor of the House for a vote . that be a lengthy debate , and we want to listen to all side , and we take forward the issue that have be raise , put they back to the Commission and address the point of concern . that be why this amendment have come back in this form . in addition to that , all member of the Commission — the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , who be in her place opposite I , and other — have take time to talk to many colleague both in this place and in the other place about concern and suggestion they have for the scheme . I do not think that what the motion aim to do be wrong , but I be concerned that we be use Standing Orders as a means of determine who can attend the House . we have never do that before . either attendance at the House have be set out in legislation or an individual member have be exclude from the House . therefore , however much time we allow for the debate , we be allow time for the wrong thing . if my right hon . friend want to go down this route , she should bring forward legislation , with a timetable motion for that legislation , rather than use Standing Orders in this way . my right hon . friend make an extremely important point , which he have take the time to make today and can of course make in the debate on Monday . he have not previously raise that point with I — I do not know whether he have speak to the usual channel or other member of the Commission — but we have consult and speak to many colleague about the motion . this be the business of the House , and we be go to bring forward the debate . my right hon . friend will know that this topic have be raise frequently at business question and that member be eager that the motion be bring forward . we have the debate on Monday . this motion will protect the time . I look forward to hear from other colleague . as the hon . member for Manchester Central and I , along with Mr Speaker and other member of the Commission , have demonstrate , we will always listen to colleague ' concern . question put and agree to . Petitions Petition - Road network in Torridge and West Devon I have the honour to present a petition on behalf of some 4 , 000 of my constituent concern the road network in Torridge and West Devon . Devon have the large road network of any county at 8 , 000 mile . it have many unclassified and unnumbered road serve isolated community . while the substantial sum provide in recent Budgets be welcome , the patchwork repair of our road be not the answer . the petitioner seek a predictable provision over the next five year to enable a plan scheme of comprehensive road repair . the petition state : " wherefore your Petitioners pray that your Honourable House urge HM Government to reallocate fund to Devon County Council to facilitate a comprehensive scheme of road improvement , include to improve the condition of unclassified or classified unnumbered road which be vital for rural community in Torridge and West Devon , as well as to prevent far , avoidable disrepair . and your petitioner remain , as in duty bind , will ever pray , & c . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the humble petition of the people of Torridge and West Devon , Sheweth , that Devon have the large road network of any county , encompass more than 8 , 000 mile ; far that more than 5 . 77 billion vehicle mile be travel on Devon ' s road network in 2022 ; far that many of these road be unclassified or classify unnumbered and while acknowledge the welcome additional one - off grant of an extra £ 27 million in 2020 / 21 and of £ 9 . 4 million allocate to Devon County Council in the Spring Budget ( 2023 ) ; note that the establish funding model do not keep pace with the requirement of Torridge and West Devon ' s road network and that some of its road , particularly the unclassified and classified unnumbered road serve market town and village , after recent severe winter and rain , be in a state of dilapidation . wherefore your Petitioners pray that your Honourable House urge HM Government to reallocate fund to Devon County Council to facilitate a comprehensive scheme of road improvement , include to improve the condition of unclassified or classified unnumbered road which be vital for rural community in Torridge and West Devon , as well as to prevent far , avoidable disrepair . and your petitioner remain , as in duty bind , will ever pray , & c . ] [ p002956 ] Petition - Youth Mobility Scheme I rise to present a petition relate to the youth mobility scheme on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk . one of the great constitutional injustice be the removal of Scotland from the EU against the wish of the scottish people by this Parliament . that situation have be compound by the Government ' s rejection of a youth mobility scheme , which would have make it easy for our young people to live , to work and to study across Europe . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to show a willingness to negotiate with the European Commission on re - open these opportunity for our young people . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , Declares regret that the UK Government have reject an EU - wide youth mobility scheme that would make it easy for our young people to live , study and work across the EU , as well as remove barrier to young EU citizen come here to fill vital employment gap . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to show a willingness to negotiate with the European Commission on re - open these opportunity for our young people . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002974 ] Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent of Gower regard the recommendation on the infected blood scandal . I pay tribute to the tireless campaign of all those affect , and to the work of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who have lead the fight for justice and accountability here in this House . two victim of this scandal die every week . those infected and affected have already wait far too long for justice , and the Government continue to delay . we need action . Justice delay be justice deny . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Gower , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002975 ] Coastal Communities : East Devon Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) I would like to talk about the east Devon coastline and some of the community that be represent by two mp — one for a constituency of the same name , and I , the MP for Tiverton and Honiton . the constituency I represent include the coastal town and village of Seaton , Beer , Branscombe and Axmouth . my comment will relate mostly to those community , although I can not avoid refer to a town in the current East Devon constituency . I have notify the hon . member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) that I will refer to his constituency , give that some of the east Devon infrastructure that I will refer to affect people I represent . last July and August , I carry out a summer tour of the village and town that I represent . as well as take in some of the large settlement such as Beer and Colyton , I visit coastal village like Branscombe and Uplyme . I will mention some of the point that be make to I in the debate . before 2022 , the Honiton constituency have not be represent by anyone other than a Conservative MP for over 150 year . why do I raise that in a debate on Government support for community on the east Devon coastline ? I suggest that that conservative rule of more than a century and a half help to explain why there have be a tendency by the Conservatives to take east Devon for grant . the National Audit Office estimate that in the decade before 2022 , the real spending power of english council be reduce by 29 % . that represent the removal of £ 10 billion of spending power . the levelling - up funding that replace it represent less than half that amount . if properly fund , local government can play a key role in help our community to thrive , yet the Government ' s levelling - up fund be an inefficient way to support local initiative , lead to lot of nugatory work from already stretch council officer . Most council have reach the limit of what can be achieve from efficiency saving . further cut will have to come from core service that be value by the community that council serve , such as non - statutory service like public toilet , leisure centre and bus route . the approach undermine local decision making and local democracy . decision about what to fund be make by bureaucrat in Whitehall , who be remote from the people affect by their decision . rather than devolve power , as the Liberal Democrats would , this move have far concentrated power here in London . I thank the hon . member for allow I to intervene . he make a point about levelling - up funding ; of course , we have have success with that in my East Devon constituency , which include the town of Exmouth . what do he make of the fundamental fact that East Devon District Council have the opportunity to apply for money to support the swimming pool — in fact , I be ask to campaign for that money — but then be the only council in the county not to apply for any funding for our swimming pool , which include an independent pool in his constituency in Axminster ? be it not a huge disappointment that the opportunity be there and be not grasp by our council ? what a let down ! I thank the hon . gentleman for give I an opportunity to talk up the great work that go on in our leisure facility in east Devon . as he say , the Flamingo pool in Axminster be brilliant ; I take my daughter swim there , and the volunteer who work there be fantastic . give that he not only know the Flamingo pool but have lead Community leisure facility in his constituency , the hon . Gentleman will know that we must do everything we can to help local authority to apply for any funding that be available . I commend the hon . gentleman for initiate the debate . do he recognise the good work that levelling - up funding have do , and the fact that so many people and many council can take advantage of it ? do he also endorse the view that whatever party may be in government in the future , it should be an integral part of the funding structure of every council in the United Kingdom ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . of 500 bid for levelling - up funding , only 111 be successful , and I be mindful of the 389 that involve so much work on the part of council officer . the Minister may correct I if I have get the number slightly wrong , but that be my understanding . we should remember that council be not well staff ; in fact , they have many vacancy , because they be constantly have to cut staff number . when the Conservatives talk of level up in their 2019 manifesto , they be talk to community that be cry out for just that , but many of the east Devon coastal community that I represent have be disappoint . let I draw an analogy with a cream tea . in Devon , if someone talk about add topping to a scone , we immediately think " cream first " , and when someone talk about level up , we immediately think " investment in our community " . little do we know that in both case , what the Conservatives actually mean be " jam tomorrow " . the Government ' s approach of encourage council to use reserve and capital receipt to subsidise their revenue expenditure be unsustainable . let we take , for example , the recent use by Devon County Council of £ 7 . 8 million of clawback money , which it have receive from BT in connection with the provision of broadband internet . rather than use that money as intend — to extend the provision of broadband to rural area — the council use it to close its deficit . that get it through the 2023 - 24 financial year , but what will happen next March when there be no payout from BT , and what will happen to the thousand of my constituent who struggle to access the internet , which in the 21st century be an essential utility ? in the first round of level - up funding , the south - west region be rank ninth out of 12 region of the UK for the amount of funding receive . it amount to just £ 23 per person , which be less than the price of a single railway ticket from Honiton to Plymouth . we might as well buy a round of ice cream with the money , give how far levelling - up funding for east Devon will not stretch . the west country receive less than 8 % of all levelling - up funding from round 1 . even London receive more than half that proportion , despite the fact that it be London ' s level of wealth and infrastructure to which other region of the UK be suppose to be level up . give that we be talk about the coast , let I draw another analogy , this time with building sandcastle . if my eld child have a bucketful of sand and my young child have half a bucket , I would expect level up to enable they both to have full bucket with which to make grand sandcastle . instead , what we seem to have find under this Conservative Government be that level up have mean that child have to make sandcastle on east Devon ' s beach by half - fill their bucket , and anyone who live locally will know that that will be with pebble . if we be lucky , central Government will give we a flag to go on top , provide that we accept that the flag will have to have a blue tree on it . East Devon District Council have submit a bid in each round of the levelling - up fund since I have be the MP for Tiverton and Honiton . have it be successful , the bid for the Axe valley would have support £ 15 million - worth of project . it would have transform Seaton seafront and provide new opportunity for decent job . East Devon District Council be look to provide three new employment site : in Colyford Road and Harepath Road in Seaton , and at Cloakham Lawns in Axminster . together , these could have provide around 3 , 000 square metre of employment space and create up to 140 decent job for local community . however , rather than choose this proposal or , indeed , the absolutely essential proposal for a town centre relief road in Cullompton , which be submit by Mid Devon District Council , the Government choose to support Dinan Way in Exmouth . I do not doubt the merit of that proposal , but the cost of Dinan Way have balloon . Devon County Council ' s cabinet meet early today . it consider a successful bid to round 1 of the Government ' s levelling - up fund , which award over £ 15 . 5 million for Destination Exmouth . East Devon District Council put in additional funding , as do other local council , make a local contribution of £ 1 . 75 million . we learn today that the gateway project around the station in Exmouth will not go ahead , and that roughly £ 4 . 4 million that have be earmark for scheme to help with active travel will be shelve . instead , the more than £ 4 million will be roll into the cost of the bypass in Dinan Way to offset the inflation that we have see since the bid be submit . if decision around that investment have be make locally , we might have make different decision , and we may have prioritise the funding and investment differently . an increase proportion of east Devon ' s community be old , which be particularly true of coastal town and village . an age population be increase the complexity of the care require . in Sir Chris Whitty ' s " Chief Medical Officer ' s Annual Report : health in an Ageing Society " , publish last October , he write specifically about the tendency of old people to retire and move to coastal area , such as east Devon . he say : " we ' ve really get to get serious about the area of the country where ageing be happen very fast , and we ' ve get to do it now . it ' s possible to compress the period of time that people spend in ill health . . . because otherwise we will end up with large number of people lead much more dependent life . " his report say : " provide service and environment suitable for old adult in these area be an absolute priority " . Sir Chris Whitty say that , specifically , we need policy to reduce disease and disability , and to help people to exercise , eat well and stay fit . a report write in February this year by Beccy Baird from the King ' s Fund call for a radical refocusing of health and care , with primary care and community service at its core . it say that " progress have be hamper by an incorrect belief that move care into the community will result in short - term cash saving . other factor include a lack of datum about primary and community service lead to a ' cycle of invisibility ' " . baird talk about " urgent challenge such as A & E waiting time and plan care backlog become the priority for politician tempt by quick fix instead of fundamental improvement . " in the face of that , the propose closure of one whole wing of Seaton Hospital make absolutely no sense to I or the constituent I represent , as I have say to various Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care , and to the Prime Minister himself at Prime Minister ' s question . how can we expect this Conservative Government to level up in respect of complicated service , such as health and social care , if they can not even level up pothole ? the annual local authority road maintenance — or ALARM — report reveal that the average cost of fill in a pothole be £ 46 , which rise to over £ 70 for a pothole that be fill on a reactive basis , rather than have be plan . on my summer tour , constituent tell I that they see repair van come to respond to a request to patch up a single pothole , rather than deal with the whole road . round 1 of the levelling - up fund award the west country £ 23 per head . that be the equivalent of half of one pothole fill per person . it be no wonder that when we drive in and out of Devon ' s crater , we sometimes think we be on the moon . I contend that the levelling - up concept be design to win over marginal seat in the midland and the north of England in the run - up to the 2019 general election . follow that election , it have become apparent to the Conservatives that their 2019 electoral big tent have be shred by the successive storm of partygate , the interregnum rule over by the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) and the crumble infrastructure of our coastal community , include those in east Devon . it will take liberal Democrat influence in the next Parliament to devolve and restore service to our community in east Devon . I be grateful to the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) for bring forward this important Adjournment debate about his area . it might be helpful if I set the scene with a few fact and figure . I understand entirely the difficulty , the tension and the problem for coastal and rural council in deliver service . there be an additionality to cost that be often trigger by a heightening of the age demographic , as the hon . Gentleman say , and by the sparsity of community . these be not great dense conurbation but small , picturesque village and hamlet . they be attractive and they support our environment and make an area a lovely place in which to live , but it be not without challenge to deliver public service there . that be be experience by a lot of council in those area . that be why we listen carefully and closely to those who make representation to we during the evolution of the local government funding settlement . pause for a moment , I have make the point before to the hon . Gentleman that a record number of member of Parliament from across the House come to see official and I during the official consultation process , to advocate in the strong possible term on behalf of their area . my hon . friend the Member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) be one of they , but the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton be not . I politely say to he that if one be serious about try to effect change , an Adjournment debate be an interesting platform on which to do it , but engagement in the proper channel of communication and consultation can often bring forward well result . let I run through a list of some success in our part of Devon . they include : £ 15 . 7 million to help level up Exmouth , include the Dinan Way extension , which the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton mention ; up to £ 30 million from South West Water to improve water infrastructure in Sidmouth ; £ 1 . 4 million to address flooding on the River Sid and River Otter ; a new school to replace Tipton St John Primary ; our incredible Nightingale Hospital , which be still open and still bring down waiting list in my constituency ; and , up the line in mid - Devon , which the hon . Gentleman sometimes pretend he represent , Cullompton be get a new railway station . meanwhile , Lib Dem - lead East Devon District Council fail even to apply for funding for swimming pool , even though it ask I to campaign for it . it be the Lib Dems who be fail the south - west , not the Conservatives . my hon . friend make a powerful point . maybe the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton be the sort of bloke who complain that he do not win the lottery even though he do not buy a ticket . how could he be expect to win the lottery ? you have to be in it to win it . of course , not every council bid be go to be successful , but as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say , the dynamic effect of level up across the United Kingdom be be feel across community , many of which have feel leave behind , ignore , undervalue — call it what you will — by successive government of all stripe . if one talk to those in community that be benefit directly from the levelling - up initiative , the share prosperity fund , the future high street fund and other , there be a real sense of excitement about what can be do in partnership with the local authority , local business and the Government to deliver beneficial change . although I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for East Devon for set out with such clarity the project that have be deliver or part - fund , I be slightly annoyed , because he have steal quite a lot of my remark . he be a very distinguished local journalist , whose call I use to relish taking — anything to get my view and thought on some local issue on the record . I now quiver slightly when my telephone ring and I see his name flash , because I know he will ask for further thing for his part of Devon and the wide county . he advocate at the heart of Government to ensure that his constituent and other , include those of Tiverton and Honiton , see the benefit of the UK Government ' s commitment to level up . we listen to local government and offer an additional £ 600 million in the local government finance settlement ; I know that the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton be aware of that . East Devon District Council see an increase in core spending power of 5 . 9 % , make available a total of £ 17 . 4 million for 2024 - 25 . Mid Devon District Council see an increase of 5 . 9 % , make available a total of £ 11 . 6 million , and the county get an increase in core spending power of 7 . 8 % , which be an additional £ 56 . 8 million , make available a total of up to £ 788 . 8 million for Devon County Council in 2024 - 25 . we have invest £ 15 billion in a suite of complementary levelling - up project to help grow the economy , create job , improve transport , provide skill training and support local business . perhaps more powerful than even those thing , as powerful and efficacious as they be , be the civic pride that the investment light up in area such as his — a pride in see what can be do , and start a process that , if successful and guide and manage well , can provide no end of opportunity . give the sort of enterprise that the Minister just describe levelling - up funding as be about , can he explain the decision to invest £ 50 , 000 in stone chess table in north - west England ? there be a rubric for take decision . the Department ' s levelling - up initiative be , of course , handle by the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my excellent hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) . each scheme be judge against fix criterion ; if it meet those criterion , it go into the next round and can ultimately be successful . I be afraid that I be not in a position to comment on individual scheme , whether successful or not , or on why they have be successful or not . that be something that the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton would need to take up with the Under - Secretary , who always make himself available to colleague from across the House to discuss the exciting levelling - up initiative . by my figure , £ 94 . 5 million of levelling - up funding have be allocate to Devon , exclude through legacy programme , and that be in addition to significant long - term devolve funding and power that we estimate to be worth up to £ 27 million , so I dispute as a matter of core principle the idea that the hon . Gentleman be try to posit in my mind , and the mind of the House , that this Government and my party take for grant his part of Devon , or that of my hon . friend the Member for East Devon — or indeed any other seat where we have a long history of representation . the conservative party be a one nation party or it be nothing . we represent the view and aspiration of million of people . it be why we have be the most successful political party , try to do our good where we can for all our community . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that the term of reference for level up have evolve since it be instigate . it be initially see as primarily the preserve of post - industrial northern town , but increasingly we see its power in our rural and coastal community too . I have set out the figure on Devon ' s success with levelling - up proposal ; the county be do incredibly well . some £ 16 million in round - two levelling - up funding have be allocate for Destination Exmouth , as my hon . friend the Member for East Devon mention . East Devon District Council receive £ 1 . 8 million from the United Kingdom share prosperity fund . East Devon will also benefit from the fact that the Heart of the South West local enterprise partnership be the recipient of £ 35 . 4 million from the Getting Building Fund programme for 2020 to 2022 . the community ownership fund have be very powerful in area such as the hon . Gentleman ' s , as it have in mine . it support initiative that be of value , include sport centre , art venue and precious community space . the hon . Gentleman lose I , I have to say , in his speech . at first , I be build sandcastle with half a bucket . he then tell we that the beach I be on have pebble , so that would be a pebble castle , not a sandcastle . I be not entirely sure whether I be put my jam or the cream on the top or the bottom of the scone . I confess , as I represent the blackmore vale , the land of the small dairy as describe by Thomas Hardy , that I always view cream as a substitute for butter . it be the glue that hold down the jam , so one always put the cream on first , and top it with jam , not the other way around . I be not quite sure where the hon . Gentleman be put his cream or his jam , but I hope he be not put it on his child or the beach , or in their bucket or all over their spade . we then have the ad hominem comment about how life be always so much well under the Liberal Democrats , these little ray of buoyant sunshine that fleetingly shine through the cloud of the south - west from time to time , only to disappear behind the broken promise of their tuition fee pledge — and I have little or no doubt that the same will happen again . this debate allow I to mention something else . I appreciate that this be nothing to do per se with the hon . Gentleman , but he extoll to the House , as his party often do , the sanctity of the Liberal Democrats , who have some sort of high public calling . we have election to Dorset Council last week , a neighbouring authority . a lot of people be say to I how much well the road be in Dorset than in Devon ; we be very happy to exchange contractor detail if necessary . one of the most distasteful aspect of last week ' s campaign be that a senior member of the hon . Gentleman ' s party — the leader , I be tell , of a neighbouring authority — spend quite a lot of time tell people , on the doorstep , that a conservative party candidate have stage 4 lung cancer , be unlikely to see his term out , and would possibly not be as attentive as possible to his public duty as a result of have to receive chemotherapy . that gentleman , who have serve his community steadfastly for year , lose his seat . that be the democratic process , and I make no complaint about it . however , I have to say something that , by God , I have be wait some year to say this from this Dispatch Box : I will take no lesson on the qualitative assessment , usually self - make by those in the hon . Gentleman ' s party , that somehow it be well than mine in instinct and delivery , and in its definition of " public service " . what I have just relay to the House have come from more than one reliable source . I just hope that his party enjoy its temporary victory in Dorset Council ; I be not entirely sure that it be the sort of victory I would have enjoy . let I turn back to the matter at hand . in conclusion , the hon . Gentleman have speak for his community , and I be grateful to he for do so . I hope that I have give he , the House , his constituent and those of my hon . friend the Member for East Devon the figure and fact . I absolutely underscore our commitment to the hon . Gentleman ' s area , to the whole south - west , and to any and all of our community in the UK where need be identify , and where the good office of his Majesty ' s Government can be deploy to help thing along . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about the local government funding settlement in the round be more bespoke and digital , rather than analogue ; it must also take account of the time and demand , give that , as he and I have discuss , there have be a change in the demographic in his part of Devon and elsewhere in the south - west . we be committed to do just that in the next Parliament . if I be in post then , I look forward to work with colleague from across the House . if , cross party , we can find a solution that hold water , can withstand scrutiny and can sustain local government , and all the good work that it seek to do , for the next 10 , 15 or 20 year , rather than have short - term fix , the landscape of local government and public service delivery for our community will be very much improve . I hope that my reply have be of help to he , and of interest to his constituent . question put and agree to . House adjourn .