Oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — International Baccalaureate what step she be take to ensure the provision of adequate funding for pupil to study the International Baccalaureate . fund institution for those age 16 to 19 have the freedom to decide how to use their funding for the provision they offer , include whether they offer the international baccalaureate . Varndean sixth - form college in Brighton be the only state - fund ib provider in Sussex . it have warn that , without the large programme uplift , the IB will become financially unviable . many Mid Sussex student have go on from Varndean to study engineering , medicine and math at lead university . do the Minister think it right that this world - class qualification become available only in the private sector , entrench a two - tier education system ? will he meet I and varndean student to discuss the benefit of the ib for state - educate pupil and why this decision must be reverse ? the Government make big decision at the spending review to increase the overall funding available to 16 - to - 19 course . next financial year , there will be an increase of over £ 800 million . [ Official Report , 30 October 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) that mean that per - pupil funding be go up substantially . the large programme uplift sit on top of that , and the Government have make the decision to prioritise the large programme uplift for student do multiple a - level in science , technology , engineering and math subject . we still support the international baccalaureate and recognise it as a programme that can work for many student . I welcome the Minister ' s support for the international baccalaureate . Ashcroft technology academy in my constituency run a successful ib programme . will he confirm that the programme will still be fund and that pupil can still choose to study the international baccalaureate at Ashcroft academy ? I know that my hon . friend be a champion for Ashcroft academy and have visit it many time . I can confirm that the change that the Government be make will mean that the international baccalaureate can still be study . we be provide funding for 16 - to - 19 provision so that sixth - form college can make those decision . this week I have be inundate by family who send their child to Europa school just outside my constituency ; they be so concerned by these change . I teach the ib for 11 year , and I know full well the difference that its incredible curriculum can make to child ' s life . do this policy direction not send a negative signal from the Government ? I remind the Minister that it be a Labour Government who introduce the funding in the first place . surely this be the wrong direction . the decision be essentially about where in the system resource go . over 75 % of student in receipt of extra support from the large programme uplift be study a - level , and we want to prioritise support for the vast majority of student who be study a - level and take extra a - level , include further math . that be right for our economy , and it be also right for the vast majority of student . we still recognise the international baccalaureate as an important course and we want to support it . I , too , have a school in my constituency that offer the international baccalaureate . Dane Court school in Broadstairs have an extremely successful programme in break down barrier to opportunity for a large number of pupil in an area of significant deprivation . only 10 % of the child in East Thanet succeed in pass the Kent test ; we need to be able to ensure that those child and other get the maximum opportunity available . will the Minister reassure I , the senior leadership team , and parent and child at Dane Court that the international baccalaureate will still be possible for those child and for future generation ? I thank my hon . friend for her advocacy for her constituent . this year , per - student funding be rise to £ 5 , 105 — up from £ 4 , 843 last year . these decision make across the further education system and for sixth - form college mean that institution can make the good choice for their student , include , where appropriate , back student to study the international baccalaureate . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister to his new role . I have be listen to he closely , but I have to say that the rhetoric do not match the action . in fact , the headteacher of Ashcroft academy write to the Secretary of State say exactly that the ib can not be deliver because the additional funding have be cut . the international baccalaureate be recognise globally and allow british student to compete internationally . cut funding will mean that those who can afford it will have access to it , but those who can not — namely in our state sector — will not . why be the Minister scrap funding for the ib and undermine standard in our state school ? the system provide the level of funding necessary to 16 - to - 19 provider . the Government have make big decision , which have not be back by the Conservatives in spending review or Budgets , to ensure that the funding be there for college to make those choice . on top of that , there be the large programme uplift . in that respect , we be rightly make the decision to prioritise the vast majority of student who be take more than three a - level , especially in STEM subject . we be prioritise those subject , and we be be frank and honest about that choice . the international baccalaureate can be choose by college where that be right for student . Free School Meals : Eligibility Criteria what assessment she have make of the potential impact of change to eligibility criterion for free school meal on level of child in poverty . as Secretary of State , I have secure free school meal for half a million more child and we be set to lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty and put £ 500 back into family ' pocket . alongside our roll - out of free breakfast club , 30 hour of government - fund childcare and Best Start family hub , I be act to deliver Labour ' s moral mission on tackle child poverty . labour ' s expansion of free school meal will reach 8 , 750 child in Slough , save parent in Slough up to £ 500 , as well as maintain attendance and attainment and improve behaviour . I know that this will be welcome by family across my Slough constituency and ensure the very good for their child ' s future . can the Secretary of State outline what measure the Government be take to increase awareness of this scheme and to ensure that eligible pupil do not miss out on this excellent support ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for everything he do to champion child and family across his constituency . it be fantastic to hear how many child in Slough will benefit from the expansion of free school meal . it be a policy that be pro - learn , anti - poverty and properly Labour . of course , we want as many family as possible to benefit from it , and to that end we be work with school , local authority and the wide sector to notify family about the change that be come into effect . under the exist criterion for free school meal , university math school have an excellent record for widen participation . we know that 7 % of a - level math student across the country be eligible for free school meal , compare with 13 % of student at university math school . will the Government consider expand the number of place available at university math school ? the hon . Gentleman be very imaginative with his question there , and I credit he for that . of course , we have to take decision about school placement and school place overall , across the whole system , but if he would like to provide I with more information , I will happily provide he with an update . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we Liberal Democrats warmly welcome the Government ' s decision early this year to finally adopt our long - stand policy of extend free school meal to all child in household in receipt of universal credit . at the time , Ministers repeatedly refuse to confirm how they be fund this extension ; research from Northumbria University now show that , on average , every primary will have to find £ 11 , 000 and every secondary about £ 25 , 000 to do so , at a time when they be already cut teaching assistant and extracurricular activity to balance the book . give that the Secretary of State have make this policy and the rolling out of school breakfast club the centrepiece of her bid for deputy leadership of the Labour party , will she confirm when she be actually go to fund they ? I be grateful to the liberal Democrat spokesperson for draw attention to the fantastic Labour policy that this Government be roll out . we be expand free school meal to half a million more child , back up with an extra £ 1 billion of funding through the spending review . that be the difference that a Labour Government be make . I be delighted that we now have 750 new free breakfast club , and that from April next year another 2 , 000 will open , reach half a million more child , lift child out of poverty and back family . that be the difference a Labour Government make . SEND system : Cheadle what step her Department be take to help improve the special educational need and disability system in Cheadle . as part of our plan for change , we be determined to improve the SEND system across the country so that every child have access to the good opportunity . we be committed to improve inclusivity and expertise in mainstream school through the early identification of need , as well as to ensure that special school cater to those with the most complex need . Paul and Ellie be child with special educational need in a primary school in Bramhall . their parent , like many across Cheadle , have reach out to I for help . their SEND provision have be suddenly take away . Paul and Ellie ' s parent be now consider withdraw they from mainstream schooling . Parentkind research show that more than one in three parent of child with special educational need say that their need be not be sufficiently meet . Paul and Ellie ' s parent deserve much more certainty and clarity , so can the Minister confirm when they will bring forward the school White Paper and , with it , the crucial information on the SEND reform for anxious parent ? I have hear so many story like Paul and Ellie ' s , and I be so sorry about the experience they have have . that be why it be so important that we be already take action to invest in mainstream inclusion , to improve teacher training and to support early identification , and it be why we be invest £ 740 million to support school to provide more specialist place . we be already take that action , and we be work very closely with parent around the country , like Paul and Ellie ' s , to bring forward a wide set of reform . child with SEND : Mainstream Schools what step her Department be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability in mainstream school . by prioritise early intervention , training and inclusive support in mainstream school , we be expand the capacity to deliver timely , consistent and high - quality SEND provision . this will improve support for child and family . we be engage with child , parent and expert about the challenge in the system and how we can work together to make sure that every child have the right support when they need it . I thank the Secretary of State for visit Golborne all saint during the summer . as she see , it be a shine example of inclusive education in action . as we mark ADHD Awareness Month , will the Minister outline the potential impact of the curriculum review on child with ADHD , and how that can become standard for all child with SEND , so that every child can thrive in a nurture environment ? the Secretary of State be tell I just this morning what a wonderful visit she have to Golborne all Saints catholic primary and pre - school , and about the amazing practice there . I read with interest the report from my hon . friend ' s constituent at her recent SEND roundtable . the review be look closely at what affect child ' s learn in mainstream school , include those with SEND , ADHD and those without a formal diagnosis , make sure that every pupil can access a broad and balanced curriculum . elstree village school in my constituency be an excellent example of a small and nurture school that specialise in support child with special educational need . sadly , we have recently be inform that Hertfordshire county council be consider close the school . will the Minister join I in send a clear message to Herts county council that they should reconsider that decision and prioritise the need of child with special educational need in mainstream school ? I have be very clear that we want to invest in early intervention and nurture provision for child with special educational need . if the right hon . Member would send I more detail of the case , I would be happy to look into it . I recently hold two event , with professional and with family , on the subject of SEND in my Carlisle constituency . their concern be very much back up by figure that show that Cumberland be spend less per pupil on those with education , health and care plan , and that there be few specialist education place in and around Carlisle and north Cumbria than the rest of the country . can the Minister tell I how I can work with the Department for Education to increase the number of specialist education place in my constituency ? one of the good part of my new role have be get letter from people across the House who have have conversation with their community . they bring story of challenge but also of some of the great practice that be happen around the country . I read my hon . friend ' s letter about those challenge with interest , and I be committed to work alongside she . as I set out , we have invest £ 740 million to increase the number of specialist place around the country . I look forward to a conversation about how that can benefit her constituency . the previous Schools Minister , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , be so excited to hear from I about Manor Mead special school in my constituency that she undertake to visit it . sadly , she have to cancel that visit and have now clearly move on to other thing , so would the new Schools Minister like to visit Manor Mead special school and see the fantastic work be do there ? I be proud to follow on from the previous Schools Minister , and would be delighted to visit that school with the hon . member . on Friday , I attend a meeting in Cornwall of the National Association of Head Teachers . we discuss the adversarial nature of the SEND system for all stakeholder . as we develop a system that focus on inclusion , do the Minister agree that a key indicator of its success must be that it drive out the combative environment that be allow to flourish under 14 year of conservative failure ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I have speak to too many parent who have have to fight so hard just to get the support that their child need . the support should be available when child need it , which be why we be so determined to invest in early intervention and to back parent to get the support they need . the number of ehcp be maintain by Hampshire county council be rise exponentially , but the funding be simply not keep pace with the demand and the cost . surprisingly , the proportion of pupil receive SEND support in mainstream school be go down , which demonstrate to I that teacher simply do not feel sufficiently support to support those child . the last Government introduce the Oliver McGowan mandatory training in neurodivergence for all health and care professional . I meet the Minister ' s predecessor to discuss introduce a similar programme for education professional . would the Minister look again at how that programme could support teacher who be struggle in some of the most difficult educational circumstance ? the Government have invest an extra £ 1 billion into the high - need block , and we have change the teacher training package to ensure that it include material on support child with special educational need . the PINS programme — partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school — be work across the NHS and education to provide more training for teacher on neurodiversity . we be absolutely aware that teacher training be a huge issue and will continue to listen to idea from both side of the House . as I have make clear in this Chamber on numerous occasion , in my part of the world there be sadly far too few specialist school place for child with SEND . headteacher across Weymouth and Portland have make clear to I that only with a new special school will we be able to deal with this problem . give the urgent need , will the Minister work with I behind the scene , by hook or by crook , to open a new SEND school at the Osprey Quay site in Portland in my constituency ? my hon . friend have already reach out to I several time to advocate for his constituent and the importance of specialist place . I very much look forward to work with he to increase provision in his constituency . on Friday , I meet primary school in my constituency that be accommodate in their classroom child who they be not set up for . one school have to convert its library for two child for whom the main classroom setting be overwhelming , and a second have to do the same for its IT department . what reassurance can the Minister give those teacher and school that they will get the funding and resource they need to accommodate child with additional need ? I have visit bespoke resource centre . I be recently in a resource centre in Southwark that provide that kind of brilliant provision . the £ 740 million we have set out be exactly to provide more specialist place that allow child to get the right support they need , often within mainstream school and within their local community . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister once again to her place . SEND be a huge issue for every parliamentarian in this House , but for month parent and child across the country have be leave in the dark with no clarity as to how the Government will support child with special educational need . there have be much speculation that ehcp might be scrap — speculation cause by the Labour Government — and the Minister give no answer in the pack Westminster Hall debate before the recess . I write to she after that debate . that be over a month ago , and I have yet to receive a letter provide any clarity . will she give clarity to the parent she speak about , confirm when the White Paper might be publish and tell we whether the Government will be amend the 2014 legislation and scrap ehcp ? the previous Government have 14 year to deliver this reform . where be any of this urgency when they be in power ? I run a council in which I see every day the broken system we be leave to operate — the one that the last Conservative Secretary of State for Education call " lose , lose , lose " . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that this be urgent for I . I have see the problem and hear story from across the House about the challenge that we face . we be determined to work with family , teacher and expert to get the reform right and ensure that we do not make the mistake that the previous Government make . SEND Provision what step her Department be take to help improve the SEND system . what step she plan to take to reform SEND provision . as we have already hear today and in a pack Westminster Hall debate last month , too many child and family be be let down by the current SEND system . we want child to have support when they need it , without a battle . we be already invest in early intervention and early inclusion ; there be new support for SEND in the early year and £ 740 million available for specialist place . in 2024 , few than half of education , health and care plan be issue within the 20 - week limit . five month be a huge chunk of a child ' s life , and parent of Winchester tell I every single week about how hard they have to fight to get the support that their child need and be entitle to . what step be the Government take to ensure that ehcp be issue in a timely manner ? parent and child should not have to wait for support ; they should have it when they need it . we be work closely with council with waiting list to improve provision and , if necessary , to bring in specialist SEND advice . we will continue to push on that . I welcome the Minister ' s response and the £ 740 million investment into the sector . however , although Liverpool have improve waiting time for ehcp , there remain a shortage of specialist school place and necessary support . some 8 , 000 child in Liverpool now require an EHCP — that figure have double over the past three year — but almost half of they be educate in mainstream school that do not meet their need . More child with SEND be exclude from school and send into inadequate pupil referral unit and alternative provision . what step will the Government take to ensure that SEND reform deliver real improvement for family in Liverpool Riverside , and that no child be exclude from education because of a lack of service ? I recently see some brilliant specialist provision in a neighbouring Liverpool constituency , but I know that , for too many child in Liverpool and across the country , waiting list be too long for they to get the support they need . that be why we have already start invest in early intervention . where there be concern about a local authority ' s capacity to make improvement , we will help they to identify barrier and put in place an effective recovery plan . this year ' s high need funding increase will help mainstream and special school with the cost of support pupil . I have speak to many anxious parent whose child have not be in receipt of an EHCP or local authority funding but would historically have benefit from independent education provision because of their SEND need . one of their concern be that such provision can no long be afford because of the imposition of 20 % vat on those school . on behalf of those parent , I implore the Government to look at that again and do a u - turn . would the Conservatives support cut breakfast club ? would they support reduce the expansion of free school meal ? would they sack teacher ? those be some of the thing be invest in because we make that decision . we be determined to provide support for child with special educational need wherever they need it . we want child to be able to go to their local school , but we will support they with their need . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . my Committee ' s recent inquiry on SEND find that , although support from health service be critical in enable many child with special educational need and disability to access education , health be often not represent at the table and there be no effective mechanism to hold health service to account for the vital role that they play . what engagement do my hon . friend the Minister have with her Department for Health and Social Care counterpart to ensure that health service play their full part in support and enable child ' s education ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her leadership of the incredibly detailed Education Committee report , which I read with interest . I know how much expertise go into that , and how many conversation there be with parent ; there be so much rich information in it . I agree that the partnership with health be essential , and that be something I be focus on . to give child and young people the good opportunity , we must work across Government to support young people with special educational need . high - level Learning Target what step her Department be take to ensure that it meet its target of two third of young people participate in high - level learning . what step her Department be take to ensure that it meet its target of two third of young people participate in high - level learning . what step her Department be take to ensure that it meet its target of two third of young people participate in high - level learning . later today I will make a statement on our post - 16 education and skill White Paper , which set out measure to support this learn ambition . for too long , skill have not be take seriously , and that stop with Labour . our long - term plan for national renewal will unlock opportunity for our young people , and drive growth for our country with clear pathway , strong alignment , and a renew partnership between Government and business . I thank the Secretary of State for her response . in Knowsley , while we be make progress with work from the council and organisation such as the Brilliant Club , we still fall below average for young people go into high learning . barrier remain to continue education , and to develop skill for good job and good life . will she meet I to discuss how we can improve that ? I know how passionate my hon . friend be about secure well life chance and more opportunity for child across her constituency , and I would be more than happy to meet she to discuss that , whether it be through the expand work that we be deliver in our school to raise standard , opportunity for young people to get into vocational or technical education , or further measure in the White Paper that I will be set out later this afternoon . the construction skill hub in Staveley in my constituency be a great example of the value of apprenticeship , and this year 68 young people come straight out of school and start a new construction apprenticeship . do my right hon . friend agree that the only way we will be able to achieve the Government ' s ambitious construction plan be by get more people to take on a construction career ? in welcome the announcement that she be make , can she say what more she will do to ensure we get more young people into our construction industry ? my hon . friend be right , and I know he have champion this cause for many year to ensure there be strong vocational and technical route , include into area such as construction . around 5 , 000 more construction apprenticeship place will be make available each year , thank to our £ 140 million investment , but that investment come with reform , such as new foundation apprenticeship to equip young people with the skill they need , and construction technical excellence college in every region , work together with business , to ensure that we be train the plasterer , the electrician and the bricklayer of the future . those be fantastic career with great prospect , and we must ensure that they be available to more young people , include in my hon . friend ' s community . in my constituency of Amber Valley the David Nieper academy teach employability skill in conjunction with local industry , and it have have zero neet — those not in education , employment or training — at age 18 for the past two academic year . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate its student and its staff , and will she commit to visit , to see how by bring the workplace into the classroom it celebrate both the academic and the vocational ? that be fantastic to hear , not least give the challenge that we still see with quite high level across our country of young people who be not in employment , education or training . I and the Work and Pensions Secretary be determined to take action on that , and I would be more than happy to do my good to honour my hon . friend ' s request . after the creative reimagining of the Government ' s target for hire more teacher , it would be helpful to have some precision on the record for the target of two third of young people in high learning . we know that high learning mean level 4 or above , but what exactly be a gold - standard apprenticeship ? do it mean one in growth sector with very high level of completion ? yes , that be one area . we be refocus our target to ensure that there be strong technical and vocational route for our young people , as well as the opportunity to go to university . go to university remain a strong option for many young people who want that chance — I know conservative Members have always be keen to do down our fantastic university — but the big gap that we have as a country be around level 4 and level 5 , especially in technical and vocational education . the right hon . Gentleman spend a long time in the Department for Education look at that issue ; this Government will tackle it . bath college offer more than 1 , 000 course up to degree level and be home to 10 , 000 learner . its alumnus include gold medal winner Jason Gardener and drum and bass producer Danny Byrd . I hear the Secretary of State speak this morning about the vital importance of vocational training . what can the Government do to support Bath college to expand its programme and training course ? through the spending review , from next year we be invest £ 800 million in 16 - to - 19 funding . that funding will run alongside the many commitment in the White Paper that I will set out , around more foundation apprenticeship , new v - level and well route into technical and vocational opportunity for our young people , work closely with business in key area such as defence , construction and engineering — but there be more to come . too many young people be be saddle with huge debt from university with little to show by way of career prospect . there be a clear case for the Government to slash poor - value degree and redirect the saving to the apprenticeship budget , double it to , say , £ 6 billion a year . will the Secretary of State explain why she be allow low - quality university course to continue unchecked , while taxpayer write off billion of pound every year in unpaid student loan ? in my statement later today on the White Paper I will be set out the action that we will be take to ensure that the regulator , the Office for Students , have the power to ensure high - quality course and good outcome for young people go to university . the policy that the hon . Gentleman have just outline be in the conservative manifesto , which be roundly reject by the british people and ridicule for be financially illiterate , because the funding system simply do not work in that way . the message that I want to come across loud and clear from this Dispatch Box be that if young people have get what it take and they have the qualification to go to university , that be a good route for they . [ interruption . ] they should not have their prospect and opportunity dismiss in such a casual and snobbish way by the conservative party . Secretary of State , I do not cough for my benefit — it be to help you rather than I have to get up . I call the shadow Minister . on high - level learning , university have spend at least £ 2 . 5 million since the attack of 7 October on additional security for anti - Israel protest and the clean - up operation that follow , yet many of the disciplinary case against those disrupt study have be drop . will the Secretary of State confirm how many student have be expel or discipline for cause criminal damage , incite violence and chant antisemitic abuse ? let I be absolutely clear : there be no place on our university campus , in our school or anywhere in our society for antisemitism , and I send that message loud and clear . that be the message that I have extend to university vice - chancellor , who should be in no doubt that we expect to see action on campus on this very serious issue . that be why we be put more funding into training and support , include in our university where we expect to see action , because there can be no excuse for jewish student feel unsafe on campus . freedom of speech do not mean people have a right to harass or intimidate jewish student , and university vice - chancellor should be in no doubt that they have a responsibility to act to safeguard the wellbeing of all student . free Schools : application decision what plan she have for the free school application decision that be pause in October 2024 . the Government ' s spending watchdog report in 2017 that plan free school would add an estimate 57 , 500 more spare school place . we be take a common - sense approach , so that we can prove value for money from every pound of taxpayer money spend . resident in Wynyard , in my Hartlepool constituency , have wait for far too long , thank primarily to the mess leave by the Conservative party , for their new primary school , St Joseph ' s , which have be catch up in this review . understandably , parent be frustrate by the continue delay , so will the Minister commit to use every possible lever at his disposal to expedite the decision , so that Wynyard family can finally have access to the high - quality school provision that they have be promise for so long ? my hon . friend have be a vocal champion for St Joseph ' s catholic primary school since he enter this place last year . I want every child in the country to go to school in an appropriate building . his community want certainty , and that be what we want too . an update will be provide later this year , and I would be happy to speak to he before that time . I thank the Minister very much for his answer , and I thank the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) for set the scene so very well . we in Northern Ireland be very keen to learn from the education system here . I believe that the Education Minister from the Northern Ireland Assembly — he be a colleague in my party , by the way , so I understand his interest in these matter — will be keen to listen to and hear the suggestion put forward by the Minister . will the Minister share his idea for Hartlepool with we in Northern Ireland to ensure that we can all benefit in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? in another part of my brief , I be already in touch with Ministers in devolved nation regard child ' s social care , and I would be very happy also to share wide learning from the school rebuilding programme . I call the shadow Minister . one year ago , the Education Secretary pause plan to open 44 approve free school . in January , she say that she be " work rapidly " to make a decision . that be nine month ago — enough time to make a baby , but not enough time for she to make up her mind . when will our Ministers tell those free school founder — among whom be some of the good education leader in the country — if they can open great new school ? there be a choice here . we be debate how the Government , within only a few month of be elect , be make big progress across the education system . that include big decision make at fiscal event to invest capital into programme such as this one , which at every opportunity the Conservatives have fail to support . we be able to make these decision to improve our school estate only because of the decision make at fiscal event . british Sign Language GCSE when the British Sign Language GCSE will be available in school . this be a really important qualification that be a step forward in open up british Sign Language . however , the GCSE be a new qualification , and a lot of work be go into ensure that the new assessment work for a wide range of student . Ofqual have consult on its propose assessment arrangement and expect to publish its final qualification rule this autumn . [ in british Sign Language : I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment to introduce a GCSE in BSL . ] beyond qualification , what work be be do to ensure that deaf child and their whole family can access bsl teaching without cost , especially in the early year , when their deaf baby ' brain be develop language skill ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and her passion for opening opportunity for deaf child . I hope she can support I to be able to answer question in kind at future oral parliamentary question . funding be available through the adult skill fund for qualification focus on British Sign Language up to and include level 2 . I welcome the opportunity to meet my hon . friend to discuss this issue far . Vocational Training : under - 19s what step her Department be take to support vocational training for people age under 19 . we have cut red tape , put in record investment and tilt the system in favour of young domestic talent , and the proof be in the pudding . apprenticeship start , participation and achievement be up , up , up under this government . use funding deliver by the last Conservative Government , work be under way to deliver an incredible , brand new , purpose - build vocational training centre for the Neta Training Group in Stockton . it will offer youngster the chance to get great skill and job . do the Minister agree that we should be cap any debt - trap degree course that fail to deliver employment opportunity and instead increase the apprenticeship budget — maybe even double it — to give young people career - focus route to success ? this be where I think the last Government get it wrong . we can be pro - further education , pro - technical education and pro - high education ; there be absolutely no need to trade they off against one another . under this government , we have 120 , 000 new training opportunity , up to 30 , 000 foundation apprenticeship start and an unprecedented £ 3 billion be invest in apprenticeship . it be great that the hon . Member and his constituent in Stockton be benefit from that . last week , I meet representative of Centrepoint . they highlight that some 2 , 800 young people in my constituency be not in education , employment or training , despite have extensive STEM skill and a real drive to participate in that part of the economy . connect those young people with exist opportunity be a major challenge , and I would like to hear how such opportunity be be create through the exciting proposition of technical college and , perhaps , V - level . what work be be do to ensure that those thing be accessible to young people in constituency such as mine ? my hon . friend be right to highlight this issue . a million young people in this country be not in education , employment or training , which be a moral stain that the Government be absolutely committed to do everything they can to address . the future of our skill system sit right at the heart of that effort , and I encourage my hon . friend to be in the Chamber for the statement later today to hear what the Government ' s further plan be . childcare : affordability what step she be take to help increase the affordability of childcare . what step she be take to help increase the affordability of childcare . welcome , Minister . as it be my first time at the Dispatch Box , I want to thank my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , and say what an honour it be to build on his work to give every child the good start in life . this Government have deliver a record expansion of childcare , save work parent £ 7 , 500 a year , and we be work with our fantastic private , voluntary , and independent sector and new school - base nursery to ensure that this expand provision reach every eligible family . I thank the Minister for her response and welcome she to her place . I recently have the pleasure of welcome my right hon . friend the Education Secretary to St Anthony ' s catholic primary school in Penge , where we see preparation for the opening of its new school - base nursery . St Anthony ' s be one of two school in my constituency of Beckenham and Penge to be award money for school - base nursery in the first round of funding , the other be Oak Lodge Primary in West Wickham . do the Minister agree that school - base nursery such as these be essential for provide the high - quality place we need and , crucially , for tackle early childhood inequality and close the attainment gap before child start school ? I do agree with my hon . friend , and I congratulate St Anthony ' s and Oak Lodge , as well as my hon . friend for be a tireless champion for his constituent . this Government have deliver 5 , 000 place at new school - base nursery this year alone , with 7 , 000 more to come next September . I encourage member across the House to get their local school to apply for a phase 2 grant . as the Minister have say , nursery be an important part of the childcare picture . last month , I visit Mousehold infant and nursery school , which — thank to the funding it have receive from this Government — have be able to double the number of place it offer to family in Norwich North . the team there tell I how this will make a real difference , as do family . will the Minister join I in thank the fantastic team at Mousehold , and expand a bit far on the step be take to ensure that more provision like this be accessible to family in my constituency and beyond ? absolutely — I thank the brilliant team at Mousehold , who be so dedicated to give every child the help and support they need . this Government want every child to have the good start in life , which be why we have expand childcare entitlement , be support school to open new nursery , and — after the conservative party dismantle they — be bring back family hub in every community in our country . my constituent Seb tell I how pleased he be when the Government extend the role of free childcare , but his nursery change the rule so that the free hour can be take only after 1 o ' clock and have to be spread over four day a week . that mean that the previously pay - for care be not now free , but cost £ 500 more than before . we know that this be happen across the country as nursery struggle with the job tax and other excessive cost , so what be the Government go to do to help those family get what they be entitle to ? I encourage the hon . Lady to write to I with the detail of that case , because we be absolutely clear that in this rapid expansion of childcare — which half a million child have be able to access this September — those 30 hour should be available , and it should not be the case that extras be charge or anything else . I be happy to look at the specific of the case . the Minister be new to the Dispatch Box , so perhaps we can forgive she for suggest that the Conservatives cut the number of family hub , since we invent they . focus on the issue of cost and move away from primary school , private provider be find that the job tax and other hit be make it more and more difficult to pay the bill and ensure that that entitlement — which we all want to see give to parent — be deliver . can I invite the hon . Lady to give any reflection from her early day as a Minister on how we can deliver that ? can she reach out to those in the Treasury and elsewhere to make they understand the ecosystem in which those provider sit ? sure Start be one of the great success of the last Labour Government , and it drive significant improvement for our child . the conservative party systematically dismantle that across our country , with significant negative consequence for our child and young people . when this Government say that we be prioritise early year , we be put our money where our mouth be — unlike the Conservatives , who have a pledge with absolutely no plan — with £ 8 billion this year and £ 9 billion next year to expand childcare and give every child the good start in life . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the launch of Labour ' s good start in life campaign last week mark a watershed moment . the Conservatives slash family service , leave child and family across our country without support , but Labour be build back that support , revive sure Start for a new generation . it be more than just the Best Start advert that people have see on the telly and hear on the radio ; it be brick and mortar , too . from derbyshire to Darlington , and from Staffordshire to Swindon , Labour be give local authority the funding they need to open Best Start family hub , so that community service be truly nationwide once again . labour demand the good start in life for child grow up in our country . that be how we will get a record share of child school - ready . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . I declare that I use to work as a university lecturer before be elect . one of my constituent have already pay nearly £ 500 for their french visa , just to be able to undertake their year abroad as part of their degree . these cost will exclude student from disadvantaged background from vital international opportunity . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the excessive visa cost face by british student undertake international placement ? if the hon . Lady would be so kind as to provide I with some information and more detail , I will happily ensure that she get a proper response . we recently have brilliant news in Dartford for young people in the constituency and across the region , with North Kent college designate as a technical excellence college , with a focus on transform construction training . that be perfect for the low Thames crossing just come on stream . the college , however , be full to the brim and want to expand . will the Minister look at how college such as North Kent can gain access to crucial capital to enable they to expand ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the fantastic team at North Kent college on all their hard work , and congratulate he on his championing of great vocational and technical route for our young people . the Government have commit £ 80 million of capital funding to construction technical excellence college . we will also be invest a furth £ 375 million over four year to provide additional place for 16 to 19 - year - old . I will be say more on that shortly , and I be happy to discuss it far with my hon . friend . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Education Secretary talk about want to improve outcome for white working - class boy , yet disadvantaged child in Wales be be fail by the very model that she want to introduce here in England . be it not the case that the good thing she can do for white working - class pupil be to stop her school reform ? I do not know how the right hon . Lady have the brass neck . for 14 year , we see group in our — [ interruption . ] order . I have get to get all these people in during topical . have a private conversation as the Secretary of State try to answer the question do not help . the Conservatives have 14 year . we take this issue seriously , because we know that far too many child in our country from white work - class community do not get the outcome they deserve . a little humility on the Conservatives ' part would go a long way . what we do for 14 year be improve school standard . not content with destroy standard , this afternoon the Secretary of State will , accord to medium report , introduce a new low - level qualification target at white working - class pupil . that be simply water down standard for some of our most deprived child . will the Secretary of State confirm that under this Government , the soft bigotry of low expectation be back ? it be absolutely nothing of the sort . what we inherit be a systematic failure of white working - class kid and child with special educational need and disability in our country . I read the right hon . Lady ' s conference speech with great care , and I look out in that speech for any mention of child with SEND , of child with additional need or , indeed , of some of the group she have be talk about this afternoon . she have nothing to say on the topic . it be the usual confected outrage that have become the right hon . Lady ' s hallmark . I be delighted to welcome the Education Secretary to St Mary ' s catholic primary school in Derby , the green school in the country , where every classroom look out on to green space . we be also lucky to have the stunning River Derwent flow through our city , which child can paddle , walk and row along . what assessment have be make of the benefit to child of have access to nature as part of their education ? that sound idyllic , and I hope I can follow the Secretary of State on a visit to that beautiful school . improve connection to nature help to address key priority in the opportunity mission , and we be support the University of Oxford ' s assessment of the impact of nature - base programme in secondary school . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Esther Ghey , the mother of Brianna Ghey , be in Parliament today , campaign to keep phone out of the classroom . give that young people themselves be say that they want a " break from the stress " of social medium at school , and give the impact of phone on child ' s concentration and focus , will the Secretary of State finally listen to her own child ' s Minister and put the Government ' s guidance on mobile phone in school into law , to give teacher and headteacher the back - up and , crucially , the resource that they need in order to restrict their use ? I too have meet Esther Ghey , and hear from she about the incredible work that she have be lead in the face of profound personal tragedy follow the loss of her daughter . I pay tribute to she for her campaigning effort . phone should not be out in school — it be as simple as that . school have the power , and headteacher have the power , to enforce restriction on their use , and in do so they have my full backing . we can have no distraction when it come to mobile phone use in our school . five primary school in Sandwell now have free breakfast club , include St Mary Magdalene , which I visit early this year , and I be delighted to hear the Secretary of State announce that 2 , 000 more primary school would benefit next year . can the Minister say more about how the free breakfast club in primary school that Labour have introduce be help child and family across our country ? breakfast club give child a great start to the day . they drive improvement in behaviour , attendance and attainment , and they can save family up to £ 450 a year . I congratulate my hon . friend and the school in her constituency on their effort , and I look forward to more and more child benefit as we continue our roll - out . I acknowledge that the Government have inherit local government finance and SEND requirement in what be probably their bad crisis in history . however , Cornwall have face one of the steep — indeed , the steep — demand for education , health and care plan in recent year , and one of the great SEND need , as well as one of the low level of high - need funding . would the Schools Minister be prepared to meet I , along with fellow mps from Cornwall and representative of the local education department , in order to avoid further crisis ? the Government have put £ 1 billion into the high - need block to support child with special educational need , but I want to hear from member from around the country about their idea for reform , and I be happy to meet the hon . member and colleague . let I first declare that I chair the all - party parliamentary group for school , learning and assessment and the APPG on social mobility . business , school and young people in Bracknell Forest all tell I that essential skill such as financial , digital and media literacy , creative problem - solve , communication and collaboration be more important than ever , but be not formally recognise or measure . how can we help young people to succeed by develop and recognise those essential skill ? I look forward to work with the APPG . we agree that we need to equip young people with key knowledge and skill to adapt to a rapidly change world , and the curriculum and assessment review will say more about the wide curriculum . accord to a survey carry out by campaigner from the adoption and special guardianship support fund , just 40 % of respondent believe that the previous £ 5 , 000 fair access limit be sufficient to meet their child ' s need . follow its reduction to £ 3 , 000 , 71 % report a reduction in the number of therapy session . what will the Minister do , as a matter of urgency , to address the detrimental impact of the change to the ASGSF ? I thank the hon . member for that important question . this be National Adoption Week , which I be sure member across the House will want to celebrate , recognise the importance of adoption and the need to fill the adoption gap — about 1 , 500 adoptive parent for child be be wait for at the moment . we be look at the future of the adoption and special guardianship support fund , which provide essential support , and we have try to ensure that the scheme be accessible to as many family as possible . rise — order . can I say to those on the Front Bench that when I start cough and shake my head , I be try to move you along , not indicate that you should carry on ? I think I be get my signal wrong . I recently meet dedicated parent from my constituency who choose to home - educate their child . they raise question about duty on parent and provider to report detail of their child ' s education and recreational activity include in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . could the Minister reaffirm his support for home - education family and meet I , so that we can provide clarity for these parent ? England be an international outlier by not require the registration of electively home - educate child , and we be remedy that with the Bill ' s measure . information on non - educational activity will not be require for inclusion in the register . I will happily meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . time and again in my constituency surgery , I hear story of child ' s need go unrecognised and unsupported for year . give the aim of increase mainstream inclusion , what be the Government do to ensure that all teacher receive comprehensive SEND training ? teacher training be an incredibly important part of mainstream inclusion and , from this September , we have change the core teacher training to ensure that it include SEND content . we be also support early year provision to have specialist SEND support , alongside the wide work to support mainstream inclusion . Sacriston academy , a primary school in my constituency , have ceiling hold up by scaffold joist . the classroom , build in 1910 , be unusable due to water penetration through the ceiling and wall . can the Minister say when the funding might be available to repair the school , after 14 year of Tory neglect ? I thank my hon . friend for his advocacy for his constituent and for the school concern . a number of scheme be available that may be able to support the school with the situation it face , and I would be happy to speak to he far about that . the Arts and Humanities Research Council receive £ 70 million in public money to fund postgraduate research . what mechanism and power do the Secretary of State have to check that such substantial fund be not squander on politically tendentious project , such as those expose by Laurence Sleator on page 27 of the Times on Saturday ? will she perhaps take a look at the article and write to I ? I be sure that we would be happy to look at the article , but the last thing that people outside this building want be politician decide what research should be do , in the same way as we do not want judge be appoint by politician in this House either . last week I visit Oak academy ' s new building — a net zero , solar - power , inspire environment for young people . I would love young people across my constituency , and across the rest of the country , to have the opportunity to learn in such environment , so can the Secretary of State tell I what her Department be do to improve the environmental performance of our school ? my hon . friend have be a very effective champion for Bournemouth on these matter . St Joseph ' s school in her constituency be benefit already from solar and other measure , thank to the partnership with Great British Energy . it be project to save the school £ 8 , 000 a year , which could be spend on extra support for pupil and teacher . over 50 % of parent of child who have special educational need have admit to neglect their own health because they be too busy prioritise the health of their child . what be the Minister do to ensure that parent ' health and mental wellbeing be be prioritise in this very adversarial process ? I , too , have hear from too many parent who have have to give up their job or fall behind on their health , as the hon . Member have set out , because they be have to fight in a very adversarial system . we be determined to reform the system so that support be available at the early opportunity for young people , so that parent can collaborate with school and be support , and we be rebuild the support around family . last month , I hold a SEND community consultation in south - east reading in my constituency , attend by over 60 parent , child and local expert . we all agree that the current system be break , and one of the young people , Megan , speak about the feeling of be let down by the system and constantly fight a never - end battle . do the Minister agree that too many child be in Megan ' s position , and will she set out how the upcoming SEND White Paper will improve the life of those child ? I read with interest my hon . friend ' s report of that constituency conversation , which contain many creative idea , and we be determined to work with young people and parent to get these reform right . follow the tragic murder of her daughter Brianna , Esther Ghey have dedicate herself to make our school safe . I have just come from an event that she be host in Parliament , at which she be call for a statutory ban on smartphone in classroom . will the Minister for Children and Families , the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , make time to attend today ' s event and make it clear whether he support a statutory phone - free education for all child ? I be absolutely happy to pop into the event this afternoon , and I applaud Esther Ghey for her fantastic campaigning work . the Government be completely clear that mobile phone should not be use in school , and the Government guidance say as much . college be the backbone of working - class community such as mine in Clackmannanshire , but the funding model for college in Scotland be fundamentally break because of SNP cut . will the Secretary of State write to her counterpart in the Scottish Government and highlight the importance of Alloa campus to the people of Clackmannanshire and the wide Forth valley , and stress that all scottish college need to receive proper funding ? I be very grateful for that question . here in England , we be invest more in brilliant further education college . it be such a shame that in Scotland the SNP Government be cut that support . I have hear directly from my scottish Labour counterpart , Pam Duncan - Glancy , about the devastating impact that be have on young people across Scotland . school on the Isle of Wight have some of the most serious challenge to level of attainment . the Isle of Wight council be a small unitary authority with unique challenge in an area disconnect from the UK mainland . what will the Government do to well support education on the Isle of Wight , rather than resort to top - down education view that do not cater for the unique pressure face by my constituent and our child ? we be determined to have high standard for child in every part of the country . I be very happy to talk to the hon . member about his specific concern for that community . mainstream school in my constituency be take step to provide their own inclusive , in - house SEND provision . penair secondary school have be create a forest school on its land , and some of my head have express their desire to create area resource base unit in their school . do the Minister agree that such type of mainstream , inclusive provision could provide a way forward , and will she come down to Cornwall , maybe when she meet we , to see it ? I have see amazing example of how this kind of provision can bring child back into mainstream classroom and cause they to start to enjoy school and achieve again . I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend and visit the school that have be set up . I have visit many school in North Devon , and many be face the dilemma of whether to fund essential maintenance or to lay off teaching assistant . what be the Minister do to ensure that adequate funding reach rural school so that they do not have to cut teaching staff in order to balance the book ? I be happy to correspond with the hon . member about the situation face that school . in relation to school building , a number of scheme be available to provide support . in Blackpool , too many young people need SEND placement have be send outside the borough , often an hour away . there be a proposal on the table for two new SEND school in Blackpool with 120 place , but it seem to be in limbo . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss this and how we can get adequate support for our great young people ? this Government want every child able to be educate in their community , not have to travel long distance . that be why we have set out the £ 740 million investment in specialist place . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the circumstance . the Equality and Human Rights Commission have say that the Secretary of State need to speed up publication of the guidance on single - sex space use by tran people in school , so can the Secretary of State confirm that the guidance will be publish before the conclusion of Labour ' s deputy leadership contest , or will she continue to forsake female - only space for her own political ambition ? I will happily answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question directly , but he be a little confused about the question he be ask . the code of practice from the ehrc be about adult ; it be not about school . on the particular question of the code of practice from the ehrc , we receive it at the start of September . it be a 300 - page - plus document . we be consider it carefully . I require further material from the ehrc , which be provide only last week . it be utterly baseless to suggest that there be any go slow on what be a sensitive and important area that we must get right . as someone who use to run a woman ' s refuge , I know how important single - sex space be . I also know it be important that trans people continue to receive protection under the Equality Act 2010 , free from prejudice , harassment and discrimination . under the previous Government , british parent have the high childcare cost in Europe . will the Minister please set out how the expansion of early year education be reduce the cost of live for hard - work british parent ? happily . the average family will save £ 7 , 500 per child per year under this Government ' s record expansion of childcare . a serious fire at St Martin ' s school in my constituency have leave most of its secondary child without face - to - face education for nearly four week now . will the Minister meet I to determine how we can ensure that the building be bring back into use as quickly as possible , and how the child can be bring back up to speed , so that they be not disadvantaged ? I would be very happy to have a discussion with the hon . Lady about the arrangement , to ensure that we can get student back into proper classroom as soon as possible . a new school have be in the offing in Bidwell West for almost a decade now . the independent council promise I that place would be available from September 2027 , but now appear to be backtrack . be the Minister willing to meet I to discuss the obvious concern of parent , many of whom move into the new build estate because of the promise of a brand - new school ? I would be very happy to find out more about the situation my hon . friend describe , and to offer any help or support that we can . allege Spying case : Home Office Involvement before we come on to the urgent question on the chinese spy case , I would like to reiterate my remark from last week . I remain disappointed by what have happen in this case . I be , alongside the Lord Speaker , continue to seek advice from official and specialist legal advice on what further step might be take to pursue this issue in other way . while it would be not appropriate to talk in detail about security matter on the Floor of the House , I be also speak to official about access arrangement . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary to make a statement about Home Office involvement in the alleged China spying case . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for the question , and I thank you , Mr Speaker , for the opportunity to respond to it today . as I have repeatedly set out to the House , the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and the wide Government be extremely disappointed that this case will not be hear in court . I have hear the strength of feel right across the House and I share member ' concern about the threat we face from espionage . the witness statement release last Wednesday vindicate what the Prime Minister and other member of the Government have state repeatedly : the deputy National Security Adviser faithfully , and with full integrity , set out the various threat pose by the chinese state to the UK , and he do so in order to try to support a successful prosecution . this urgent question ask about the involvement of the Home Office . follow the charge decision make in early 2024 , under the previous Government , the Crown Prosecution Service advise the witness that he could not share the evidence with other in government . the Home Office ' s involvement follow the charge decision that be take under the previous Government be therefore heavily restrict to avoid breach the CPS ' s requirement . listen to that . order . I do not need any help from the Government Front Bench . this be a very important statement that really do affect member of this House . as I have repeatedly make clear in this House , Ministers and special adviser be not involve in any aspect of the production of the evidence , and I stand by that statement today . the Prime Minister have also make clear that he be inform of the CPS ' s decision only a matter of day before the case collapse . there be nothing that the Prime Minister or any other Minister could have do at that point that would have change the law and the policy under the previous Government between 2021 and 2023 . those who have read the dnsa ' s statement will know that they clearly articulate the threat pose by China base on the previous Government ' s policy at the time , detail the damage cause by the allege offence . ultimately , it be an entirely independent decision by the CPS to discontinue the case , and the CPS have confirm that it come under no outside pressure to do so . like member from all part of the House , I remain very frustrated that this case will not be hear in court . we want to see the trial go ahead . I have make it clear on many occasion that the decision not to proceed be an independent decision by the Crown Prosecution Service , and the Director of Public Prosecutions have give assurance that there be no Government interference in that decision . I note that the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy will be undertake an inquiry on the case and intend to hold public evidence session . the Intelligence and Security Committee have also indicate that it will investigate . we welcome the launch of the inquiry and the investigation , with which the Government will , of course , fully co - operate . I have already set out the range of activity that this Government be take to combat the chinese espionage threat , and I hope that that be well understand . let I also provide the House with the reassurance that the Government will take all necessary action to keep the UK safe and secure . I call the shadow Home Secretary . last Wednesday , the Prime Minister tell this House that no Minister or special adviser be involve in the handling of the China spy case , yet the Sunday Times have since report that the Home Secretary have " hear that the case might collapse and have make representation to ensure the evidence put forward be as ' strong as possible ' . " so I ask the Minister : when do the Home Secretary become aware that the case might collapse , and what representation do she or her proxy make about the evidence and to whom ? why have the House be tell — include just now — that Ministers and adviser be not involve in any way when the Sunday Times report that they be ? the Sunday Times also report on a key meeting that take place on 1 September — a meeting that the Government originally deny take place . be it true that Jonathan Powell chair that meeting ? do that meeting discuss the CPS view that the evidence provide to that point be inadequate , and the possibility of provide further evidence in the case ? will the Minister agree to publish the minute of all meeting in which this case be discuss and the correspondence relate to it ? the Sunday Times report that follow the meeting , the Attorney General ' s Office be ask to speak to the CPS . do anyone from the AGO speak directly or indirectly to the CPS after that meeting ? can the Minister confirm that Dan Chugg from the Foreign Office be at the 1 September meeting , and that it be the same Dan Chugg who approach the Lord Speaker with a propose deal in which the chinese ambassador would be allow back into Parliament ? the Sunday Times also report that the dnsa be understand to have acknowledge privately that the decision not to say that China be an ongoing threat be political in nature . be that true ? finally , the current Government ' s position have be that all the evidence provide relate to the previous Government ' s policy , but we now know that that be categorically not true . in paragraph 8 of Matt Collins ' s third statement , from August this year , which he copy and paste from the labour manifesto , he stress the importance the current Government attach to a " positive relationship " with China , weaken the evidence compare with 2023 and bring in current Government policy , contrary to what we have be tell in recent week . why have the Government be provide this House with inaccurate information , and why do minister know what the CPS want but refuse to give it to the CPS ? with great respect , a lot of what have just be say do not actually relate to the urgent question that be initially ask by the shadow Home Secretary . I have to say , the Opposition ' s position be confusing . they initially criticise the Government for intervene . then — [ interruption . ] I will answer the question . I be answer it . I think it be important that on these matter of national security , we try to debate thing in a reasonable and sensible way . that be the approach that this Government will seek to take . if member opposite — [ interruption . ] order . I think we have have enough . thank you , Mr Speaker . the Opposition ' s position be confusing . they initially criticise the Government for intervene . then , when it become absolutely clear that we have not do that , they criticise we for not intervene . they ask for great transparency , then when we provide it they accuse the government — wrongly — of hang people out to dry . give that this urgent question relate to the activity of the Home Office , I be not at all clear why the shadow Home Secretary think it be appropriate — give accusation that have be make previously about hang official out to dry — to name an official in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . how do that relate to the urgent question that be ask ? [ interruption . ] order . I think I need to help a little bit . it be in order to mention another Department . you can not ringfence this and not refer to other people . it might not be comfortable , but the fact be that a question have be ask that be within order , and that be what matter . I be grateful for your guidance , Mr Speaker . I be simply point out to the shadow Home Secretary that Conservative Members have previously criticise Ministers and the Government for , to use their word , hang official out to dry , and now the shadow Home Secretary have just name twice an official from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . [ interruption . ] order . I have say to the Government Front Bench that I do not need any chipping in . I certainly do not need it from all along the Opposition Front Bench . I do wonder whether at any point the shadow Home Secretary and certain conservative Members — not all , but certain member — have consider the need to have some humility and acknowledge their part in this . these activity take place on their watch , when they be in government , and under the legislation of the time . Don ' t just read that out . answer the question . order . Mr Philp , you have have the benefit of an urgent question . I have have the benefit — some might say — of listen to you , so I want you to have the benefit of listen to the Minister . the shadow Home Secretary would be well advise to listen to the point be make . I be seek to respond to the question that he and other right hon . and hon . member have raise . I be try to do that in good faith , and I would be grateful for the opportunity to do so . I remind the shadow Home Secretary that we be here today only because the previous Conservative Government do not move quickly enough to fix the glare hole that exist in our national security law . the charge in this case , as I hope be well know , be bring under the Official Secrets Act 1911 . this antiquated legislation be draw up before the first world war , and the Conservatives begin review it in 2015 because it be widely know that it be not fit for purpose . but it take eight year for they to introduce the National Security Act 2023 . fortunately , the law have now be update , with cross - party support , but not in time to protect our Parliament from chinese espionage . if the Conservatives have act more quickly and the National Security Act have be in place when these allege offence happen , the prosecution would likely have proceed . [ interruption . ] order . look , I be try really hard . People who hold position should know well . let I make this point crystal clear : no member of this Government , nor any special adviser , be in any way involve in the evidence submit to the CPS or the decision by the DPP not to proceed with the case . there be an important omission from the shadow Home Secretary ' s remark . as hon . member will know , the first substantive witness statement be provide under the previous Government , when the right hon . Member be a Home Office Minister , yet neither he nor the Leader of the opposition have take the opportunity to say what involvement Conservative Ministers and Conservative special adviser have in the main tranche of the evidence . the Prime Minister have confirm that no Labour Ministers or special adviser be involve with the provision of evidence for the case . last Wednesday during Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister ask the Leader of the Opposition to confirm whether that be also the case under the previous Government . I be in the House last Wednesday , and I think that I hear the Leader of the Opposition confirm from a sedentary position that she do know the answer to that question , but the conservative party have refuse to confirm if any Conservative Ministers or special adviser be involve in the provision of evidence under the previous Government . I wonder if any of the former Ministers in the Chamber can provide the answer . as Ministers have repeatedly say from the Dispatch Box , the Government be extremely disappointed that the case do not proceed to trial . I gently say to Opposition Front - Bench Members that they need to stop throw mud and start come to term with what happen on their watch . the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , and other relevant Select Committee Chairs , include I , have meet the Director of Public Prosecutions and send he a detailed series of follow - up question . the Chair of the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy , my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) , have convene an inquiry and be likely to call a number of relevant witness , include Government Ministers . the Minister mention that the ISC will be look at this matter . can he assure the House that the Government will co - operate fully with those inquiry and response , and that that be the good way to take these matter forward in a thorough and timely fashion ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and for the role he have play in these proceeding . yes , I give he the absolute assurance he seek . there be an important role for the House to play in look carefully at precisely what have go on . that be why , on behalf of the Government , I very much welcome the work that will now be do by the JCNSS and the ISC . both those important Committees have an important role , and I be sure that hon . member across the House will want to make other contribution as part of that process . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . what a mess . we have three question for the Minister . first , what conversation have he have with all relevant parliamentary authority — that might include the Speaker ' s Office — about plan to tighten vetting or ongoing monitoring of researcher and staff to ensure this do not happen again ? secondly , in the witness statement release by this Government , there be a reference to the use by the previous Government of " back channel " to attempt to dissuade the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) and the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) from raise concern about Confucius institute . what be the Minister ' s understanding , base on the evidence , statement and any other information available , of the meaning of " back channel " in that context ? do it refer to the previous Government ' s Whips Office , Government official or somebody else ? thirdly , give that the Prime Minister ' s spokesperson still refuse today to say that China be a threat to Britain ' s national security , would the Minister be comfortable with Labour mps accept meeting request from representative of the Chinese Communist party or any nation ally to China ? I be genuinely grateful to the hon . member for the point he have raise . let I take they in turn . I lead on behalf of the Government on vetting , and a lot of work have take place in government since we come into office to ensure that the system and process that underpin our vetting be fit for purpose . the hon . Gentleman be right to ask about it . although it might seem like a reasonably niche point , it be an important one because our national security be underpin by our ability to vet those who have access to privileged information . he , for reason that I completely understand , make reference to a link between the work that we be do in government and the importance of ensure that the appropriate vetting procedure be in place for this House . I know he will understand that , fundamentally , that will be a matter for the Speaker and for this House , but I can give he an absolute assurance that we will work closely with Mr Speaker , the Deputy Speakers and all those in this place to ensure that we look carefully at what happen and satisfy ourselves that the vetting arrangement be absolutely fit for purpose . the hon . Gentleman ' s second point relate specifically to two member of this House . I do not believe that either of those two member be in their place today . I be keen to meet they and work closely with they , and to ensure that the Government be provide the support that they may want or require . I be happy to speak to the hon . Gentleman and to those member about the point that he have make . with regard to the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , which be specifically about China , I hope he will acknowledge that the Government have be crystal clear about our position with regard to China — [ interruption . ] right hon . and hon . member may chuckle , but we have have this debate previously . if there be member who think that the nature of our relationship with China can be define by a single word , then I do not believe that they be serious about the nature of the relationship . all member in this House have an absolute responsibility to decide for themselves what meeting they take . with great respect to the hon . Gentleman , I do not believe that it be for minister to opine from the Dispatch Box about whether individual member should take meeting or not . personally , I be very clear that China remain an active , persistent and everyday threat to our country and have do so for many year . in the light of this , what step be the Minister take on behalf of the Government to ensure that parliamentarian across this House be much well protect in the year to come from the kind of foreign interference that we see — regularly , unfortunately — on the last government ' s watch ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , not only for his question but for his previous service and for the work of his constituent with regard to underpin our national security . he make an important point . he will know — as will you , Madam Deputy Speaker — that the National Protective Security Authority recently publish guidance design specifically to provide hon . member with advice and guidance to ensure that they be well able to deal with the risk and threat that all of we in this House face . on the second part of my hon . friend ' s question , that be something that the Government take incredibly seriously . we inherit the defend democracy taskforce from the previous Government . that be a good institution , and I have on many occasion pay tribute to all those Conservatives Members who be involve in set it up . the Prime Minister have renew the mandate of the defend democracy taskforce . it be the fulcrum point across Government that bring the different Departments and law enforcement together , alongside member of this House , to ensure that we be do everything that we can to address and tackle the threat that we face . I have always believe and maintain that that should be a share endeavour right across this House , and my door will always be open to member of the House who would like to discuss it . I rather think that , in a civilised country , whether or not someone be prosecute depend on the evidence . be it therefore wise for the witness statement to replicate — word for word — the word of the Labour party manifesto , and have it ever happen before ? I always appreciate the Leader of the House ' s question — [ hon . member : " Father of the House ! " ] forgive I . I always appreciate the Father of the House ' s question because he bring a long - stand wisdom and perspective to these matter . I hope he will understand that , in line with the point that he make about civility , it be not for minister to critique the decision that be make by the CPS . the Government have make it clear to the House on many occasion that this be an independent decision that be take by the CPS , and the DPP have be clear about the fact that no special adviser and no Minister interfere in that process . Mr Speaker , I share your frustration at the collapse of the case . two question remain top of mind for member of the House and for people in my constituency . first , what be the Minister ' s assessment of the risk of spy on mps in this House ? secondly , what be his assessment of the ongoing transnational repression of british national overseas passport holder in Milton Keynes and elsewhere across the country ? do it not show a pattern of chinese Government activity right across the UK , which be a risk to we ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise her concern in the way that she do . I hope that she understand , as the House do , that this Government have be absolutely clear that no interference in our democratic process be remotely acceptable and that there be no circumstance under which we will tolerate country , wherever they may be , seek to cause harm to anybody who be resident in the United Kingdom . she specifically mention transnational repression . that be something that the Government take incredibly seriously , and we have do a lot of work on it through the defend democracy taskforce . let I say again to she and to the House that it be completely unacceptable that China or any other country should seek to harm anybody who live here in the United Kingdom . I first of all thank the Minister for what he say about co - operation with the work of the Intelligence and Security Committee on this matter . I agree with he , as I often do , that the Government be entitle to clarity about what the question they be be ask be . the question for I be not whether the Government seek to intervene to persuade the DPP to take a different view . I do not think the Government do that . neither do I think the Government go back and seek to change evidence it have already submit . the question be , when the CPS ask for additional evidence , as it undoubtedly do , whether the Government choose to supply that evidence or not . that be not about interference ; it be about respond to a request make to Government by the CPS . give that we now know that the request be to make it clear in term that , during the relevant period , China be a current national security threat to the UK , who in the Home Office or elsewhere decide that that could not be submit in a further statement of evidence in very clear term ? I be grateful to the right hon . and learn Gentleman ; the remark I make early about the ISC , which he sit on , be genuinely mean . I think that the ISC have an important role to play in look at precisely what have happen here , and I give he an absolute commitment that we want to work very closely with his Committee on this specific issue and on other . let I try to give the right hon . and learn Gentleman a bit of detail , because he ask his question in an entirely reasonable way . I reiterate the point , which I hope be understand by he and his Committee , that the final evidence go in August this year , and there be nothing that any Minister could have do post that . I hope he be crystal clear , as I be , that there be no political interference . let I just say something about the dnsa : he be an outstanding public servant who do a very important job and do it very well , and I think it be a terrible shame that there have be commentary about he as an individual . he have act with integrity throughout this process , and we as a Parliament owe he a debt of gratitude for the service that he have offer . let I say something about the evidence that he give : in each of the three statement , the dnsa make it crystal clear that China pose wide - range threat to the UK . in his third statement , he say : " the chinese intelligence service be highly capable and conduct large scale espionage operation against the UK to advance the chinese state ' s interest and harm the interest and security of the UK . " he be very clear about that . he add : " China ' s espionage operation threaten the UK ' s economic prosperity and resilience , and the integrity of our democratic institution . " he have be very clear in the evidence statement that he provide . I do not think that there be much more that I can add to that , other than to reiterate that it be then ultimately a decision for the DPP . malign foreign actor will always try to find the next weak link , and my concern be local authority , which have the spending power of £ 127 . 1 billion . what action be the Home Office take to ensure that our councillor and other democratically elect people at the low level of government be also give the protection they need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend because he raise an important point . we have a defend democracy taskforce precisely to ensure that our response be root across government — not only here but in the region and nation . we work very closely with local government and be acutely conscious of the fact that important election will be take place around the country next May . we be work at pace to ensure that those election can take place in an environment that we would all want to see . I can absolutely give he an assurance that we work closely with our partner not only in local government but in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . notwithstanding the Home Secretary ' s reassurance about spad or Ministers not be involve in the advice , do the Minister accept that this matter have reinforce the grow concern in this country about a lack of clarity on our position towards China , the fear of a threat to our energy security from the involvement of chinese company , and the super - embassy in London ? my constituent be become increasingly concerned about the activity of the consulate in my constituency . can the Minister reassure we that this Government will make their position towards China absolutely clear in the near future ? I be grateful to the hon . member because she ask an entirely reasonable and constructive question . she acknowledge , I be sure , that the previous Foreign Secretary make a statement to the House about the China audit , and I hope she will acknowledge that the nature of the relationship be complex . I be not aware that anyone in this place think that we should not have some form of economic co - operation with China . it be in our country ' s national interest to be clear - eyed about the nature of the relationship . where we be able to co - operate economically where it be in our national interest to do so , we should proceed , but we should proceed , as I say , with a clear set of principle that underpin that . fundamentally , our national security come first . this government will of course look for opportunity to co - operate economically with China , but fundamentally , we will always do what we can to keep our country safe . I be sorry that the Minister find himself in a position which be not of his own making . I be also sorry that only four member of his parliamentary party out of over 400 be stand up to contribute to the debate . do he accept that one reason for the cloud of suspicion of political interference around this matter be the decision to appoint a highly political special adviser as National Security Adviser for the first time ? that have put the deputy National Security Adviser in the firing line . can the Minister at least confirm that if and when , as I be sure it will , the Intelligence and Security Committee ask the National Security Adviser to come and give evidence in its inquiry that he will do so ? the right hon . Gentleman refer to what he describe as a " highly political " appointment . with great respect to he , and he know that I hold he in the high regard , I disagree with his characterisation of that appointment . the National Security Adviser be someone who have huge experience of government , be extremely well connected — [ interruption . ] hon . member may think it be not a good thing that we have somebody occupy a very important role in government who be know around the world ; the Government contend that it be a good thing . we only need to look at the comment make by President Trump ' s foreign affair adviser just the other day , commend the important work that the National Security Adviser have do . he work incredibly hard to secure the security of our nation . rather than talk he down , we should get behind he and ensure that he be support to do the important job that he have be give . as have be mention , the spokesman for the Prime Minister , when ask whether China be a threat , refer to the dnsa ' s statement , which say that China conduct " large scale espionage operation " that " threaten the UK ' s economic prosperity and resilience , and the integrity of our democratic institution " . by anyone ' s definition , that would mean that China be a threat . I be a sanctioned Member of this Parliament . that be what this be all about : I have be spy upon , and I have have a wolf warrior from China follow I around the world and impersonate I very threateningly . do the Minister think that I ought to refer to China as a threat ? it be for the right hon . Gentleman to choose his own word . he be a very experienced Member of this House . the activity that he describe be completely unacceptable . that be why this Government have be clear on numerous occasion that we want to work across the House to ensure that all right hon . and hon . member have the protection they need to speak their view in this place without fear or favour . if he want to discuss those matter far , I would be very happy to do so . I hope that we can find a way of discuss these incredibly serious issue in a more grow - up way , as have be the case previously . after the Cabinet Office meeting of 1 September , do the Prime Minister receive a note on this case in his ministerial red box , and , if so , do he approve it ? additionally , do the UK Government give chinese official private assurance at any point and in any form that the application for the chinese embassy in London would be approve ? hon . member will know that there be a very long - stand custom whereby minister do not comment on the content of the Prime Minister ' s box , but under these particular circumstance I be very happy to confirm that there be no note to the Prime Minister . may I first invite the Minister to clarify what he say in response to my question last week ? I point out that , in his letter to the Select Committee Chairs , the Director of Public Prosecutions be clear that he have ask for a statement that China be a national security threat , and it be not forthcoming . the Minister shake his head and appear to dispute that . will he now acknowledge that that statement be not forthcoming ? furthermore , when the DPP informally approach the Government after the third statement of evidence have be supply to he to complain that the word " national security threat " be still not contain in that document , the Government consciously choose not to give any further response . be that correct ? why , at that point , give all the thing that the dnsa have already say , do nobody in the Government think that they could use the three word " national security threat " ? this be the third time that I have appear at the Dispatch Box to answer question from member , include from the hon . Gentleman , so I hope that he will forgive I if I can not remember the specific detail of the question that he put to I when we be last here . I have seek to provide clarity . in response to the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) a moment ago , I give a detailed account of the three statement from the deputy National Security Adviser . we have be clear — as be the deputy National Security Adviser in the statement that we provide . the fact that China pose a range of threat to the UK be not in doubt . as the Government have say before , the question in this case be whether the overall legal threshold for a realistic prospect of conviction have be meet in the totality of the evidence available to the CPS . although I understand why member will focus on the three individual statement from the deputy National Security Adviser , there be clearly other evidence available for the CPS to consider as part of this process . I could not have say more time or be more clear that the decision lie with the DPP . last Thursday , the Minister at the Dispatch Box agree with I that China be indeed a national security threat , and the Government have consistently say that they be " disappointed " . as the Minister know , I like to be helpful and constructive at all time , so I ask a KC to advise as to whether a private criminal prosecution could be bring under the Official Secrets Act . the advice I have be that the answer be yes , as long as it have the consent of the Attorney General , and as long as the Government be helpful and constructive by provide evidence and witness statement . will the Minister confirm whether the Attorney General will give such consent and provide appropriate evidence ? for the sake of clarity , " extremely disappointed " be the phraseology that we have use . we seem to have move on from the original question about the Home Office , and the hon . Member will understand that I be not responsible for the action of the Attorney General or the Solicitor General . colleague in the other place and in government will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s question , and I would be happy to discuss it with he far . I think the reason we be gather here today — although I can not see into your mind , Mr Speaker — be because of the story in the Sunday Times . that be why the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , ask this : when do the Home Secretary hear that the case might collapse ? that be question no . 1 . be we not owe an answer to that question ? do the Home Secretary , as the Sunday Times say , then make representation as to the evidence be as " strong as possible " ? do she or didn ' t she ? we be here because of that piece , Mr Speaker ; I assume , although I can not know your mind , that that be why you agree to this urgent question . this Minister refuse , disgracefully , at that Dispatch Box to answer the question about the role of the Home Office in this spy scandal . will the Minister now answer , not with his obfuscation and not with his flannel ? will he answer the question directly ? we be here because of activity that happen under the previous Government . that be why we be here — I repeat the point I make early about Conservative Members show a bit of humility — and I give a response to the shadow Home Secretary . a senior chinese Government official invite Britain to " fulfil its obligation and honour its commitment " over the so - call super - embassy , but can the Minister shed light on what those obligation and commitment be ? if he be go to say that no such commitment or obligation be offer , can we file that under another threat to this country by the Chinese ? we do not recognise those claim . of course , give the quasi - judicial nature of the process , it would have be entirely improper for anybody to have make any comment that basically cut across the legal process that be be lead by the Secretary of State for the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . I appreciate the Minister ' s clarity , which he keep talk about . on that basis , let I say this . the case collapse . this be about leadership . he have see all the evidence in public , and all the evidence in private . be China spy on two member of Parliament in this case — yes or no ? I be happy to debate issue of leadership with anyone in this House , not least because I have spend all my professional life try to keep the country safe . I will continue to serve in government to make sure that we do everything we can to stand against the threat we face . I have hope , enter into government , that that process would be consensual , and that we could work across the House to keep the country safe . that have be the approach of this Government , and I be sad that conservative Members do not want to proceed on that basis . do the Minister believe that the collapse of this case have weaken the UK ' s position on the international stage , and that we will see more foreign state actor try to carry out operation of espionage against member of Parliament ? that be precisely why we work closely with our five eye ally , and why the United Kingdom host the five country ministerial in London just a couple of week ago . this need to be a shared endeavour with our ally , our partner and our neighbour . we have a huge amount in common with our international ally , particularly the five Eyes alliance , and this Government will continue to work closely with they . we will ensure that if any country — whether China or whoever it might be — seek to interfere in our democratic process or to harm those who live in our country , we work collectively across those alliance to stand against those threat . I would like to ask the Minister about another case of foreign interference in our politic . Nathan Gill , the former leader of Reform UK in Wales and a constituent of mine , plead guilty to accept bribe from Russia . he be stop by the police in September 2021 , but only charge in February this year . report now suggest that the Kremlin operation target not only he but at least two other member of the European Parliament and a Member of the House of Lords . what step be the Government take to ensure that russian network can not continue to influence UK politic ? the hon . Lady raise an important case that will be a matter of concern to member from right across the House . I can assure she that we take these matter incredibly seriously , specifically with regard to her point about Russia . I can also give she the assurance that she seek that we work incredibly hard , alongside our ally , to make sure we be do everything we can to combat the threat that we all know we face from Russia . I think most people would consider thing that be threaten indeed to be threat , so we can only assume that the Minister have be instruct that he can not make such a statement from the Dispatch Box . will he help we to understand well the Government ' s position on their relationship with China . be China an ally ? be it a friend ? will he explain that ? I would be very happy to do so . I repeat the point that I make a moment ago : no one who want to be consider as serious think that the nature of our relationship with China can be define by a single word — I hope that the hon . Gentleman acknowledge that . as I say a week ago , this Government assess that China pose a series of threat to UK national security , from cyber - attack , foreign interference and espionage target our democratic institution to the transnational repression of Hongkongers . however , we be also alive to the fact that China present the UK with opportunity as the world ' s second large economy and the UK ' s third large trading partner . we have to be clear - eyed about both the challenge and the opportunity . I have now ask the Government why China be not include in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme three time . on 9 June , I be tell " that particular report be come forward in due course . " — [ Official Report , 9 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 613 . ] on 15 September , I be tell " no doubt we will have more to say about it in due course . " — [ Official Report , 15 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 1194 . ] and on 13 October , I be tell " any decision about the enhance tier will be bring forward in the normal way . " — [ Official Report , 13 October 2025 ; Vol . 773 , c . 85 . ] the Government be now panic about the chinese embassy decision , they be desperately try to deflect from attention on the Chagos deal that the National Security Adviser negotiate on , and they appear to be decriminalise spy for China . what be the Government ' s rationale for not include China within the enhance tier ? give the threat , when will it be add ? I be old enough to remember when Conservative Members say that we would not introduce the foreign influence registration scheme by 1 July . we work at pace to introduce the scheme on 1 July . the hon . Gentleman know the answer : we be look carefully at whether other country should be add to the enhance tier , but we will take that decision in due course and bring it forward in the normal way . the Minister be strive incredibly hard to answer these question ; some would say — well , with respect , we will leave it at that . the news of suspect spying in Parliament be worry — there be no that this pose a huge threat to this country and to we as mps . Mr Speaker , we owe you a debt of gratitude for the stand that you be take on behalf of mp to ensure that we be protect . we thank you for that . it be equally worrying that case such as this be under no scrutiny by the CPS and no accountability be take . what assurance can the Minister give our constituent that the Government will put pressure on the CPS to prosecute this case ? will he please understand the level of disappointment and betrayal feel by mps because of the lack of action on the case ? it be always good to hear from the hon . member , and I agree with the sentiment that he have express . I hope there be a unity of view across this House that collectively we can be incredibly concerned about what have happen . I pay tribute to the work that you have do , Mr Speaker , through the Speaker ' s Commission ; the Government will want to work very closely with you and look carefully at the finding of your commission . we need to work across this House to ensure that all the protection be in place so that , as I have say previously , member can have their say in this place without fear or favour . that be precisely why additional guidance be publish just a week or so ago and why , just before the House go into recess back in July , I write to every single member of this House spell out what support and protection be in place . we take very seriously our responsibility to safeguard our democracy , and we want to work very closely with Mr Speaker on that process . the Minister have be ask why further step be not take to provide the evidence request in this case , know that the case be on the verge of collapse . he may feel that he have provide clarity , but I be afraid that he absolutely have not . will he ask the Attorney General to come to this House and make a statement about what the CPS want and why that be not provide by the Government ? with great respect , it be the decision of the opposition to table the urgent question in the way that they do ; they could have choose to table it in the way that the hon . member describe . the Attorney General and colleague right across Government look very carefully at the circumstance of this particular case . I have spell out in some detail the information that the Government be able to put into the public domain about the three witness statement publish by the Prime Minister last week . the final piece of evidence be send by the deputy National Security Adviser in August ; there be nothing that any Minister or special adviser could have do thereafter . it seem to I that the key question , which have not be answer despite three session on this subject , be the following . we know that in April 2024 the evidential test for prosecution under the Official Secrets Act 1911 be meet . we also know that come September ' 25 , the CPS be say that it be not meet . the key question be : what change ? part of the answer seem to come from the CPS , when it say that it ask for Government information , which it do not get to a satisfactory level . do that not suggest that there be a failure on the part of Government that contribute to the collapse of this prosecution ? if the Government simply say , " on the one hand , China be a threat ; on the other hand , it be an opportunity , " how could we ever put beyond all reasonable doubt in a criminal case the fact that it be a threat ? be that equivocation not the source of the problem ? as I have say previously , in each of the three statement the dnsa make it crystal clear that China pose wide - range threat to the UK . in his third statement , in August ' 24 , he say that the chinese intelligence service be " highly capable " and conduct " large - scale espionage operation against the UK to advance the chinese state ' s interest and harm the interest and security of the UK " . I do not think that there could have be any great clarity . the Minister have repeatedly say that he be extremely disappointed that this case do not proceed to trial . that be thin gruel if all the step necessary to ensure that it get to trial be not take . with that in mind , can he set out whether the report in the Sunday Times over the weekend that the Prime Minister and other Ministers be aware of the imminent collapse on 12 September be correct ? if that be correct , can he set out what step the Home Secretary take to ensure that the CPS have the evidence it need ? I hope the hon . Gentleman understand that the point about the Government be extremely disappointed be absolutely genuine . I could not have be clear , from day one , that the Government be extremely disappointed that we will not be proceed with this trial . however , it be not for minister to opine on a decision take independently of Government . final evidence go in in August , and I can give the hon . Gentleman an assurance that there be nothing the Prime Minister or any Minister could have do thereafter . the Minister have be ask by numerous people , not least by the shadow Home Secretary and by my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , when the Home Secretary know that this case be go to collapse . we have not be give an answer . the Minister have also be ask by numerous people if the Home Secretary make representation ; again , we have not be give an answer . these should be relatively straightforward question with straightforward answer . will the Minister answer those question or give a reason as to why he can not do so ? I have do my very good to provide the clarity that hon . member be ask for . there be , of course , still an unanswered question about the position of the previous Government . the Prime Minister put that point to the Leader of the opposition last week , and there be a number of former Government Ministers in the Chamber — perhaps they could tell we the answer . I be go to give the Minister a fifth chance to answer . do the Home Secretary make representation when she discover that the case be about to collapse — yes or no ? I have give the House the response — [ interruption . ] order . could we calm down ? marvellous . I call Robin Swann . chinese official recently brief Stormont ' s Finance Minister on the status of a local company in his constituency own by the chinese state . information on that briefing , release under the Freedom of Information Act by the Department of Finance , withhold detail , cite freedom of information law that protect confidential information obtain from a foreign state . in the current climate and in the interest of openness and transparency , do the Minister agree that it would be good to release all the detail of that meeting , rather than hide behind FOI law ? the hon . Gentleman have ask quite a technical question . I be not entirely clear which meeting he be refer to , but I be very happy to write to he with the detail . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the point of order will come after the urgent question and the statement . can it wait ? indicate assent . Maccabi Tel Aviv FC : Away Fans Ban ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport if she will make a statement on the decision to ban Maccabi Tel Aviv FC fan from attend their fixture against Aston Villa . last week , Aston Villa release a statement that away fan would not be permit to attend their game against Maccabi Tel Aviv on 6 November . the decision be take by Birmingham city council on the advice of the safety advisory group , and base on a risk assessment by West Midlands police . that risk assessment consider a range of factor , such as the risk of protest , the threat of wide disorder , previous fixture with Maccabi Tel Aviv fan , and the impact on the wide community . it be a long - establish principle , set out in law , that the police and safety advisory group be operationally independent of Government , and that it be for they to take decision on safety . however , this decision have far wide implication . in any situation , there be a risk that must be assess , but in this case the inherent risk that the event present be in no small part down to where the away fan come from and who they be . it be in that context that the solution that be propose — to exclude a group from attend — be wrong . it choose exclusion , rather than look at the full range of option available to manage that risk and include . this be about who we be as a country . a lot of the public discussion about this game have focus on event in the middle east . let I be clear : it be perfectly legitimate to hold and express strong view about what be happen in Israel and Gaza . People in this country be free to protest peacefully ; they be free to lobby Government and event organiser about which country can participate in tournament ; and they be free to choose not to attend event or purchase product that they find unacceptable . however , they be not entitle to dictate who can participate in competition , attend a football match , or walk the street , for fear of threat or reprisal . whatever one ' s view on the event overseas , that be a fundamental principle that this Government will fiercely defend . let I also be clear that the decision be not make in a vacuum . it be set against a backdrop of rise antisemitism in this country and across the world , and of an attack on a synagogue in Manchester in which two innocent man be kill . it have a real - world impact on a community who already feel exclude and afraid . it be therefore completely legitimate to support the independence of the police to conduct that risk assessment , and to question the conclusion that follow when it exclude the people at the heart of that risk . follow the decision last week , the Government have be work with West Midlands police and Birmingham city council to support they to consider all the option available and to tell we what resource be need to manage the risk to ensure that fan from both team can attend safely . if the assessment be revise , the safety advisory group will meet again to discuss option . in the past few day , I have speak to jewish community group , sporting organisation , fan group and Aston Villa football club to ensure we have the full picture possible . the Home Secretary and the Communities Secretary have have extensive discussion with the police , local government and other . ultimately , the law be clear that responsibility for this decision lie with local agency . it be not for the Government to assess the risk surround this football match , but we be clear that resource will not be the determine factor in whether Maccabi Tel Aviv fan can be admit . the fundamental principle that nobody in our country will be exclude from participate in public life because of who they be must be uphold . I thank the right hon . Lady for those comment , because I be sure most of we in this House believe that the decision to ban Maccabi Tel Aviv fan from the upcoming Europa league game against Villa be the wrong one . it be also embarrassing and a disgrace . have we really reach the point where we can not welcome visitor from overseas to our second city , because we can not guarantee their safety on british street and in british football ground ? this be not how modern Britain should present itself to the world . some , astoundingly include some in this House , have claim that the ban on israeli fan be for their own safety . that safety have be put at risk precisely because of the anger and hatred be whip up by some of those very same people demand a ban , such as by equate football fan with terrorist . we can not give in to that kind of rhetoric , and I hope the Minister will join I in condemn it . football and all sport have incredible potential to bring people together . it should not be use as a deliberate tool to divide . the UK have a great and hard - win reputation for host major international sporting event , and ban an entire fanbase send the wrong signal and may jeopardise our ability to host such event in the future . how disappointing this decision must be to the resident of Birmingham , who only three year ago welcome people from around the world to the Commonwealth game , which showcase Birmingham and the west midland at their diverse , vibrant and hospitable well . we therefore call on the Government to intervene and get this ban reverse . Aston Villa and the safety advisory group may only be able to reverse the ban with guarantee of additional support from the Government . can the Minister therefore confirm what additional resource may be provide and who will pay for they ? can she confirm when the Home Office and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be first make aware of the intent of the safety advisory group to make this obviously controversial decision ? be she confident that they talk to all the right people before make the decision ? if the decision be reverse , what practical step will be take to ensure the safety of all fan and resident ? while many football team have some undesirable supporter intent on cause trouble , let we recognise that the vast majority of fan want nothing more than to enjoy a good game of football . do the Minister agree that , if we be truly to wrap our arm around the jewish community , as the Prime Minister promise follow the attack on the synagogue in Manchester , we need to take action and not just spout warm word ? finally , be she confident that this incident will not jeopardise our ability to host major international sporting event in the future ? first , may I thank the shadow Secretary of State for bring this urgent question to the House ? I know the issue be of concern to so many parliamentarian and to so many people outside this place . I also thank he for his tone . I have watch with dismay as people in this debate have seek to use this moment to heighten tension , and I commend he for how he have conduct himself . the shadow Secretary of State ask a particularly important question about who will pay . across Government , the Home Secretary , the Chancellor , the Prime Minister , the Communities Secretary and I be unite in say that we will find the resource that need to be make available , once West Midlands police have come forward with the risk assessment . we will work as one government to make sure that those resource be forthcoming , because of the important fundamental principle that be at stake about what sort of country we be . the hon . Gentleman ask whether I be confident that the decision have be base on the right information . in recent day I have see a great many " fact " fly around that do not seem to have any evidential basis , especially on social medium , and we be work with our international partner to ensure that West Midlands police have the full range of information on which to base an assessment . the hon . Gentleman mention the impact that this be have on the jewish community . I absolutely feel and understand that , and I have have numerous conversation with member of the jewish community over the past few day . we have vast experience of police event in difficult circumstance in this country , and the hon . Gentleman be right to say that the behaviour of a minority of supporter in every club , and in this club in particular , be reprehensible , but that be not true of all fan . what be astonishing in this case be that it be unprecedented in modern time for all away fan to be ban because of the behaviour of a small minority , and we be work with the police to help they to look at that in the round . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that we need action , not just warm word . have meet jewish fan , I be particularly concerned about the impact that some of the event in the middle east be have not just on national competition , but on grassroots sport . I have commit myself to work with they on that , to ensure that young people in this country can turn up at local grassroots event and not feel anxious about participate , or not be able to participate , because of who they be . finally , the hon . Gentleman ask about the signal that this send to other around the world . that be not lose on we . we be a tolerant , diverse nation , and Birmingham , as one of our great city , be a great example . that be what we be fight to uphold and defend , and that be the Britain in which we believe . the message from this Government be that we will always defend that country . we be a well country than some of the comment that have be make and the action that have be take in the last week , and we be determined to uphold that . as my right hon . friend will know from her discussion with the jewish community — which will have be similar to those that I have have follow the dreadful murder at the Heaton Park synagogue just over a fortnight ago — what they want be to be assure by the Government , local authority and other security authority that they can live and walk about in this country in complete safety . whatever the risk assessment in Birmingham be , it would be a disgrace and a shame if this country could not guarantee the security of a group of a group of jewish fan , come from Israel , walk down our street . can my right hon . friend give that assurance to this House this afternoon ? my hon . friend be a great champion for his jewish constituent . I have meet jewish community organisation over the last few day to give they that assurance that the Government will always defend and uphold their right to participate fully in public life , and that include be able to attend football match . in a number of the discussion that we have have with partner , they have make the point to we that many of the people who want to attend this match as Maccabi Tel Aviv fan be actually british citizen who live here in the United Kingdom . that should be in all our mind when we think about whom we be exclude from be able to attend . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the decision to ban Maccabi Tel Aviv fan from attend their team ' s Europa league match because West Midlands police could not keep the fan safe be a serious mistake , and set a dangerous precedent . we appreciate the difficulty in ensure the safety of fan and local community , but the Liberal Democrats believe that this decision must be reverse , and that the Government should work alongside local authority and the police to ensure that the match go ahead with both set of fan . the situation at Maccabi Tel Aviv ' s match in Israel this weekend remind we of the importance of ensure that our police force have the resource and support that they need to keep major event safe . the UK have make significant progress in tackle football hooliganism , but the police must always be prepare for small number of fan who seek to cause trouble . will the Minister recommend " bubble - like " security restriction to boost security check and police presence around the stadium to ensure that everyone be serve and protect ? the Home Secretary say that she do not know about the fan be ban until the night before it be announce , but she be apparently aware as early as last week that a decision be be make . can the Minister clarify when the Home Secretary be make aware of the potential ban ? if she know last week , why do she not intervene early ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question ; I will try to address they all . I think the Home Secretary have give a full account of the fact that she be keep update about these event , but the decision be not communicate to the Government until , sadly , we see the statement from Aston Villa on the recommendation of the police . I want to be really clear that the police have a role here that be operationally independent of Government , and that they have a right and responsibility to assess the risk . I have no basis to believe that the police do anything other than act in good faith in try to make that assessment . the reason that the Government have intervene in this case be because we believe that it have far wide implication . the upshot of the decision be that it breach a fundamental principle about who be entitle to participate in public life and walk our street safely . because of that , we have be forthcoming with all the support and resource that the West Midlands police may need in order to ensure that this game can go ahead in the manner that the hon . Lady suggest . the people charge with the protection of public safety carry a heavy burden , and not all the information that they consider have yet be lay out in the public domain . however , I have deep concern about the principle of block - ban entire group of opposition fan — some of whom , let we not forget , may be UK resident or national — and about some of the description of Birmingham in part of the press and other area of our political life that be not a true account of our city . do the Secretary of State agree that Birmingham overwhelmingly remain a diverse and welcome place , and will she join I in commend the calm leadership that the council leader , John Cotton , have bring to bear by call for a review ? my right hon . friend the Communities Secretary have work very closely with Birmingham city council , and I echo my hon . friend ' s comment about the leader and commend the council for the constructive way in which it have work with we , the police and other local agency in order to deal with this issue . we have also work very constructively with the West Midlands police , Aston Villa football club and a whole host of agency in order to try to resolve the situation . he be right to say that it be unprecedented in recent time that an entire group of away supporter have be entirely ban from a game , and it be something that we in this country do not make a habit of . we have become very skilled at police football match , even where there be considerable risk involve , in a way that include everyone . finally , may I say that those who seek to divide and exclude people in Birmingham should consider the signal that it send to the rest of the world about one of our great and vibrant city ? on Friday , the club ' s chief executive raise concern about what the ban on fan actually signal . the Secretary of State will be aware that this be not the first time we have hear about jewish people not feel safe at either cultural or sporting event , whether that be the scene at Glastonbury this year or the boycott , protest and cancellation of jewish performer at venue around the country . I be really grateful for the Secretary of State ' s commitment today , but can she set out a bit more on what specifically she be do to ensure that jewish people feel safe and welcome to participate in cultural life in the UK ? early this year , I host a roundtable with Lord Mann and the Board of Deputies to discuss the role of jewish people in the wide range of public life , particularly in relation to art , film , tv , broadcasting and medium . the hon . Lady be absolutely right to say that this specific case be not occur in a vacuum , and we be work on a strategy to make sure that jewish people be include and that their contribution to british public life be recognise and celebrate . I would like to preface my comment by say that everybody in this place be horrify by the attack on the synagogue in Heaton Park , and that my comment today be purely base on safety . a year before the Hillsborough disaster , safety concern at Sheffield Wednesday ' s stadium be raise by an official , but the ex - council safety officer be tell by boss in 1988 to keep his nose out of such concern . nobody in this place need to be remind of what happen as a result of ignore that safety advice : 97 innocent man , woman and child lose their life . we have safety advisory group for a reason , and it be a slippery slope when safety concern be ignore . I believe it be unprecedented for a Government to try to overturn such advice , and I respectfully disagree with the Secretary of State that ban do not go on , because we have have a lot of case , both nationally and internationally , with the most recent one be Napoli versus Eintracht Frankfurt . can the Secretary of State be explicitly clear : have she see the safety advice ? if so , do she disagree with the safety advice ? if she do disagree , can she tell the House on what ground she disagree ? it be imperative that this House be clear , because if the Government be successful in have the decision overturn , particularly after the scene we witness last night at the israeli derby , people be go to ask question . I thank my hon . friend . as somebody who represent some of the Hillsborough family , I say to she that we as a Government , and I as an individual member of that Government , take the safety of all fan and the wide community with the utmost seriousness . we would never treat safety as a secondary consideration . my hon . Friend say that we be try to overturn the police advice . we be do absolutely no such thing , and I think I make that completely clear in the response I have just make . we be work with the West Midlands police and local partner to make sure that we take into account the risk they have raise in order to ensure that this game can go ahead safely with both set of fan present . in the discussion about and the consideration I have give to the risk that the West Midlands police have highlight , what be completely different about this case be not just that it be the first time in this country since the early 2000s that a decision have be take to ban away fan entirely from attend a game , but that the risk assessment be base in no small part on the risk pose to fan attend to support Maccabi Tel Aviv because they be israeli and because they be jewish . we should be appal by that , and never allow it to stand . I commend the Secretary of State for the tone and the clarity of her response to the urgent question . I echo what she say about the police make the decision in good faith , but it be , as she have say , the wrong decision . can I also echo what she have say about this not be the sort of country to make such a decision ? it be not the sort of city Birmingham be either . there be outstandingly good community relation there , largely because of the excellent work do by the faith community across the city . I echo those comment , and I take this moment to pay tribute to those faith organisation . the Communities Secretary and I have be pleased to work with they in anticipation of the threat of significant disorder that have be make by people outside Birmingham who seek to travel to Birmingham to create strife . their message be ours as well : they be not welcome there . it be report over the weekend that , in August , a legal observer to one of the protest be arrest simply for wear a Star of David because it be consider to be antagonise . now , with the decision to ban the Maccabi fan from come to the UK , there be a genuine cumulative effect on what it mean for jewish people in this country , and the effect on the family of jewish people in this country who watch their friend and family be torture about whether or not they have a role in this country any more . we should all be significantly aware of that . if this ban be allow to go ahead , there will be this challenge . the game after the Maccabi game be with the Swiss - base Young Boys , whose fan have be involve in two riot , include hospitalisation . if their away team be not ban , the question should be : what be different between the Maccabi fan and the young Boys fan , and what be it that we want to talk about ? I think my hon . friend have put it well than I could . as the Member of Parliament for the very area set to host this match and for the community whose public safety many member of this House wish to play fast and loose with , I know the reality on the ground . I know that there have be a deliberate , disingenuous move by many to make this a matter of ban Jews , and to conflate matter of police with those of religion . just this morning , I see a video of jewish community leader stand outside Villa Park say that they too support the banning of this team ' s fan , and I will release that video outside the Chamber . those who be not welcome in Aston be the hooligan who have a long history of violence and vile racism , with chant like " f * * * the Arabs " , " we will rape their daughter " and " there be no school in Gaza because there be no child leave in Gaza " . it be these hooligan who be not welcome . can I ask the Minister how many million of british taxpayer ' money her Government be offer to overturn the respected expert judgment of the West Midlands police and the safety group ? can I just say to the hon . Gentleman that I be appal by the specific incident and chant he mention , and that none of we in this House should seek to condone they in any sense ? but can I also say to he that it be entirely disingenuous to say that you respect cohesion and inclusion when you be seek to divide and exclude ? [ interruption . ] order . I ask Members to temper their language and not accuse each other of be disingenuous . ensure that all fan can attend sporting event in safety and without fear must always be our first priority , and we must fully respect the operational independence of the police . can the Secretary of State reassure the House that this Government will provide the necessary resource to support local policing in this case , particularly in the light of the heightened and very deep concern around antisemitism , to ensure that resourcing be not the reason give for the block ban of Maccabi Tel Aviv fan ? I be really happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . as a british Muslim who grow up in Birmingham and the west midland and do business there , I be deeply sadden by this decision — I be sadden for the british jewish community . we be a tolerant , diverse nation , and a tolerant , diverse region . this decision be bad for two reason . first , it be bad for Birmingham and the west midland , and bad for the British Muslim community . many have reach out , say that they do not want to be drag into this and that they feel similar amount of anger . secondly , my worry now be that a flashpoint have be create . there will now be those who will want to take advantage of the fact that it be in the headline . there will be those who will want to come and cause trouble , and drag Birmingham ' s name , and that of the west midland , through the mud . I acknowledge that . I , too , be sadden by the way this have play out . I be sadden about the impact on people in Birmingham , who I have always find to be extremely welcoming and tolerant , and who know that they be strong for their diversity , not weaken by it . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that recent event and the way in which a number of people have seek to prey on they have heighten the level of risk . that be something that West Midlands police of course have to consider , but my commitment to he and to all member of this House , and to the people of Birmingham , be that resource will not stand in the way of this go ahead . let I just say from the outset that all form of bigotry be abhorrent . a dutch police report into the disorder in Amsterdam at the Ajax versus Maccabi Tel Aviv fixture determine that Maccabi fan tear down a palestinian flag , set fire to it and chant , " fuck you , Palestine . " that be vile , disgust Islamophobia in action . how about prevent that from happen here , because there be an extreme hooligan element of Maccabi fan who consistently behave in that manner ? do the Government not see that Islamophobic behaviour be highly likely if these fan travel to Birmingham ? what about the safety of our muslim citizen ? look , everybody in this House be entitle to strong opinion , but they be not entitle to a selective version of the fact . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to point out that , among a minority of Maccabi Tel Aviv fan in the instance he raise , there be appal behaviour , which none of we , include most Maccabi Tel Aviv fan , would seek to condone . but there be also attack on those fan , and that have form part of the assessment of risk that West Midlands police have have to make . I think it be just worth I reiterate the point about just how rare it be for away fan to be exclude wholesale from attend european football match in this country . as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) point out just a moment ago , we have have to deal with this in this country for a very long time . we have do it recently and in many part of the country . we have find a way to police safely and effectively . it can not be beyond our collective wit to do so in this case . as thing stand , the decision to ban Maccabi Tel Aviv fan reflect so badly on Birmingham , the west midland and our country , and at a time when football can often bring people and community together . will the Secretary of State assure we that she will do all she can to ensure that any review under way be conclude before kick - off ? I can hear and understand the right hon . Lady ' s frustration . we be work at pace and pull every lever at our disposal to give the police and Birmingham city council the support they need . the police need to be able to conduct that risk assessment and review thoroughly , because the safety of fan and the community must be paramount . we be work as fast as we can and be determined to get there as quickly as we can , not least to provide clarity to both club so that they can make the necessary preparation . order . I know that this topic be very important , but I need question to be short and answer to be just as precise . first , I pay tribute to the volunteer who serve on the safety advisory group — a thankless but hugely important task — who will be really worried about today . the safety of football fan have , at time , be at the very bottom of priority in this place . will my right hon . friend reassure I that the safety of supporter be absolutely paramount in the Government ' s thinking , rather than the politic around this matter ? I be really happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . I thank he for the work he have do over many year , and not just on Hillsborough but on football as a whole . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s remark and commend she for her conciliary tone and attitude . yes , safety be paramount for all football supporter , but , as she have say , this be not take place in a vacuum , and this country be now in a very tense situation . she mention a strategy go ahead to make jewish community feel more welcome . can she outline a wee bit more of that , set out what we might expect and when we might expect to see it ? I have be extremely concerned to hear example from the jewish community in addition to the specific instance that we be talk about , with jewish film director have their show cancel , not because it be to do with anything in Israel or Gaza but because they be jewish , and jewish presenter be advise to stay off the airwave . I be work with they , with the help and support of Lord Mann , to ensure that we pursue an overarching strategy , and I have also have discussion with individual organisation to ensure that where those incident take place , those individual know that they do not have to challenge those thing alone . I , too , thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for the tone in which she deliver it . the police always act in the interest of public safety , and I be sure there be no antisemitic intent . it be the threat of the mob that have lead to this decision . do she agree that we must never allow the rule of the mob ? completely . I commend the right hon . Lady for her statement , which cover everything precisely . I disagree with one or two of those who have come out against she on this matter . I simply say this : when the partial assessment be do , everybody centre on what happen in Amsterdam , but when they play a game in Istanbul there be no trouble at all . it be a bit partial to choose one bit of evidence over the other . I simply say that with the rise of antisemitism now in the UK , the right hon . Lady be make the right decision to protect those people . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman . he raise the important question of whether this decision be proportionate , and whether , if there have not be a risk to the Maccabi Tel Aviv fan because of where they come from and who they be , this decision would have play out in the way that it have . that be what be exercise a lot of member of this House , and it be obviously a view that we share . be it not the case that the police , act on intelligence , believe that Maccabi fan should not be allow to attend the match for public safety reason ? their record of hooliganism will have contribute to that . such ban have happen with fan of other team across Europe , yet in this case there have be a dangerous push to once again claim that any criticism of Israel be antisemitic . should the Government not just admit that they have it badly wrong on this and let the police do their job without political interference ? surely the real issue here be the right of local people to be keep safe . the difference in this case be that what have tip the balance of the decision be the risk present to Maccabi Tel Aviv fan because they be israeli and , in many case , because they be british and jewish . what have happen be that a political campaign — lead , I be ashamed to say , by member of this House — have cause the police to change their decision and calculation . the Secretary of State be right to suggest that this be not simply an operational decision . she be talk a good game , but she also say that all she can do be question the conclusion of the police , and now she be offer more resource and ask they politely if they will change their decision . do the Government not recognise that , under the Police Act 1996 , they have the power to direct police force to make certain decision and , if necessary , to dismiss the chief constable ? if they do not , will the Government clarify the law to ensure that they do have the power to overturn decision like this ? there be a long - establish principle in this country , as set out in law , that the police be operationally independent , and I be surprised to hear the hon . Gentleman seek to question that . I have be clear that the risk assessment and decision around what would be need for the game to go ahead safely , with all fan present , be for the police . the right and proper role of the Government be to work with and support the police to ensure that that happen . it be not just a question of resource . we be look at a whole range of factor and practice that be well establish in this country and across Europe , include ensure that there be transportation to get fan safely to and from the game . we be look at the number of ticket sale make available to away fan , as well as measure that have be try and test in order to ensure that those who would seek to create trouble be exclude from the game . it be absolutely not right to characterise the position of this government as simply stand on the sideline . the fundamental principle that people , whoever they be , should be entitle to walk the street and attend football game in our country be , for we , non - negotiable . I be sure that the Secretary of State will find the irony in the fact that last weekend — as I be sure they will next weekend — premier league footballer take the knee to demonstrate the need to drive out racism from football . what have happen here be antisemitism at its heart . if the issue be the safety of the fan outside the ground , it be the case in many away match that away supporter be escort by the police on coach to the entrance and then collect from the exit to go back to the airport . there be no reason why that can not be do now . will the Secretary of State go back to the police and say , " let ' s make people safe " ? I support Tottenham Hotspur , and we have a massive jewish population among our fan . if this mean that we be not safe to go to Aston Villa because of attitude outside the ground , that be a demonstration that in the UK jewish people be not safe on our street . I fundamentally agree with the hon . member . first , I congratulate the Secretary of State on the very clear message that she have give today . be it not a fact that , despite some of the excuse come from member behind I , this be all about the religion of the supporter who will be attend this match , and indeed that the only people they be likely to be in danger from be the hate mob we have see march across our street for month , wave palestinian flag and support terrorist ? would she agree that the police ought to be tell : " you need to make the street safe for everyone , jewish people as well as anyone else " ? that be their duty , and they should live up to that . I would say that it be all of our duty to ensure that we live up to that as a country , and in the vast majority of case we do . I also make the point to those who say that it be perfectly legitimate to try to drive the fan out of the game that our assessment be that the vast majority of Maccabi Tel Aviv fan who want to attend be british . the only distinguish feature be that they be jewish . my jewish community have be come to I for year to say how unsafe they feel and that antisemitism have rear its head in this country for many year . the Secretary of State ' s tone be welcome , and she be absolutely right , but let I put it bluntly : jewish hatred in this country have grow and grow . may I ask the Secretary of State to pull every lever she can to ensure that the idea of jewish hatred be not bear out by people say , " because you be jewish or because you be israeli , we hold you all responsible for the action of a government " ? the reality be that that be xenophobia , racism and antisemitism , and it need to be call out . I be happy to join the right hon . member in call that out . will the Secretary of State confirm that , in come to the decision , the authority in Birmingham take account of the behaviour of Maccabi Tel Aviv fan on many other occasion in many other place and decide it be unsafe for the match to be play in Birmingham ? it be absolutely not about ban jewish people , or any other people , from go to the match or go to Birmingham . can we separate the issue about the behaviour of a group of fan from the wide question of how everybody — whether jewish , Muslim or anything else — must be safe to walk the street of this country ? on the right hon . member ' s last statement — that everybody must be safe to walk the street of this country — I agree with he . perhaps he might make that point to the people he now associate with on his left and right , because that be not what we have hear from they in the last few week . can I just clear this up ? I have hear a lot of hot take on social medium about the evidence on which the police rely to come to their decision . it be right to say that the police , as we would expect , take into account in particular the game in Amsterdam at which Maccabi Tel Aviv fan be present and where a small element cause the most appalling disorder , but they also take into account the real risk present to Maccabi Tel Aviv fan on the basis that Maccabi Tel Aviv be an israeli team and many of the fan who would attend be jewish . I hope that the right hon . Member will be as exercise about that as he be about the behaviour of those fan . hopefully we can rely on the police to arrest any hooligan who break the law , whichever team they be support . will the Government take into account the fact that — know the way in which terrorist mind work — as there will be such a concentration of police resource on this particular location , jewish establishment in that part of the country need to be extra careful on that day , such that advantage be not seek to be take by people who mean they harm ? the right hon . Member will be aware , because it have all play out publicly , that there have be specific threat against jewish people and jewish organisation . we and the police be take that extremely seriously . because of the way in which those on all side of the debate have seek to heighten tension over the past week , there be concern about the safety of a whole range of people across the community — Muslims , Jews and the wide community . a number of hon . member have make the point that far more work need to be do to defuse those tension , to take the heat out of the situation , to support everybody in this country and , in particular , to be emphatic , as the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) say just a moment ago , that nobody in Britain be responsible for the event play out in the middle east . to hold people — whether british Muslims or british Jews — responsible be entirely unacceptable . last year , the chief constable of the West Midlands police force tell muslim elder that he would always police without fear or favour and that he would not tolerate any sort of racism , but the banning of Maccabi fan be quite clearly racism . do the Secretary of State agree that if the police chief can not police a football match , they should no long be in office ? I do not think it helpful to question people ' s motive . in the work we have do with West Midlands police , I have no hesitation in say that they have make an assessment of the risk , as be their responsibility . what happen next be not just a question for they ; it be a question for all of we . the police have do their job to assess the safety and risk pose across the board . the Government have intervene in this case because the decision they have come to have wide implication that we believe have lead to the wrong decision , and that can not stand . however , I do not question the police ' s motive for a moment . our job be to work with they and support they to be able to police the match in a way that ensure that people can attend , and do so safely . the message that this decision send be that the police will bow to religious pressure , and it legitimise antisemitism . the Secretary of State make reference to the game between Ajax and Maccabi Tel Aviv . the vast majority of fan arrest that evening be ajax fan . Ajax be play Chelsea at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday evening , but no one have talk about ban its fan from attend that game . article 27 . 04 of the Europa league regulation state that " to ensure that a rescheduled match can be complete , if necessary without spectator , the home club must have access to a back - up stadium " . give that it be now likely that this fixture will attract bad faith actor to Birmingham who be not fan of either team and who be look to cause trouble , what assessment have the Secretary of State make of play the match behind closed door at a neutral venue , or a venue where the police be prepared to provide security ? we as a Government be not prepared to accept that people can not attend a football match in Birmingham because of who they be . there be many , many Aston Villa fan who be look forward to this fixture . there be no risk pose by they . it be in their home city and they should be able to attend . it be also our strong view , as the hon . Gentleman set out , that the majority of Maccabi Tel Aviv fan should be allow to attend , as they have do safely at many other match , and not be discriminate against because of who they be . we be work with the police and other local partner to make sure that we do everything we can to achieve that end and deal with the wide issue that many member here have raise . Maccabi Tel Aviv ' s racist fan hooliganism can not be separate from israeli militarism . many of these fan — [ interruption . ] many of these fan be active or former soldier who have take part in Israel ' s genocide in Gaza . they should be investigate for war crime the moment they set foot on british soil , not welcome into our stadium . let we be clear : this Labour Government be no innocent bystander . they have arm Israel ' s genocide , they have provide diplomatic cover and they have shamefully deny that genocide be even take place . so I ask the Minister : be there anything this Labour Government will not do to defend the genocidal apartheid state of Israel ? I like the hon . Lady , but I have to say that she be do the people of Birmingham no favour with that sort of rhetoric . the conflation that she make between all Maccabi Tel Aviv supporter and the action of the israeli Government be precisely what the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold be say about blame british citizen who happen to support Maccabi Tel Aviv for action that be take place in the middle east . I have to say that conflate be jewish and be israeli be in itself antisemitism . I think she should take more care with her remark . Birmingham ' s good band be , of course , Black Sabbath and it have counsel we that : " if you listen to fool , the mob rule . " this be a case of mob rule here . the Secretary of State have do a tremendous job of set out the Government ' s position . will she review , while maintain police independence — [ interruption . ] order . if Mr Kruger and Ms Zarah Sultana want to continue their own personal debate , they need to take it out of the Chamber . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . back to the Sabs . will the Secretary of State review the rule around sporting and entertainment event to make sure that this Government , and any future government , be not render impotent in the face of the mob ? we be not consider make change to the principle that have stand for a long time about the operational independence of the police , but as I have set out to other member , we be clear that there be a role for Government here and we be determined to play our part in help to resolve this . [ interruption . ] I have to say , listen to the racket that be go on in the corner of the Chamber , that I have just talk about the impact that this issue be have on young people in this country who be turn up , put on their strip on a Sunday morning , go to play football and find that they be not welcome . that sort of behaviour be exactly the opposite of what this House should be model . I welcome the Secretary of State and thank she very much for her statement . I be sadden to hear of this decision and , more importantly , the message it send to our jewish community . this be a dire situation , and we must make use of UK policing service to find a way for this sport event to take place and for fan to attend in safety . Jews be welcome and protect everywhere , as be people of all faith and none . a scenario in which we give into intimidation and threat be a slippery slope to appeasement within our country . what step will be take to ensure the deployment of police from other area ? for instance , the Police Service of Northern Ireland have be use just in the last month to do some of the policing . Police must be use to allow international supporter to attend and to send the correct message that we be one nation and that freedom be not zone or exclude in any area of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . as I make clear , we be look at a whole range of option to provide the support and resource that West Midlands police need . we be very clear that this can not be a responsibility for it alone . there be wide principle at stake , and we be provide everything that it need in order that we can live up to the principle that the hon . Gentleman just set out . the Government , politician from across the House and the medium establishment have condemn the propose ban of Maccabi Tel Aviv fan as antisemitic , yet this group have a record of violent behaviour and racist chant , include " death to Arabs " and the mocking of the killing of Gazan child . give the UK ' s adoption of the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ' s definition , which rightly warn against hold jewish people collectively responsible for Israel ' s action , do the Minister agree that the conflation of criticism of Israel — with its ongoing genocide , war crime , breach of international law and current genocide trial at the International Court of Justice — with antisemitism against british Jews or jewish people in general actually undermine that definition ? [ interruption . ] I will not sit down . be that the question ? indicate dissent . quickly put the question . and if the UK rightly impose cultural and sport boycott on country like Russia over war crime , why should Israel be treat differently ? I have make it absolutely clear that it be perfectly acceptable for people to hold strong and passionate view about what be happen in Israel and Gaza , and that there be a right in this country to make representation to sport govern body and the Government about who can participate in — [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman be not listen , so I think I will just leave it there . antisemitism be vile , and no one should be prevent from enjoy their sporting game , whatever it may be , simply because of their faith . as a football fan , I take the decision to ban any fan very seriously , but the Prime Minister ' s decision to interfere with the independence of West Midlands police and the SAG should concern all of we in this House , especially when the same Prime Minister fail to intervene when british aid worker be kill while volunteer for World Central Kitchen , fail to intervene when his own mp be deny access to Israel and the west bank , and fail to intervene when the Israel Defence Forces board flotilla with british citizen onboard and detain they . million will now be spend on a football match to defend some hooligan — it be not all fan — who chant that there be no school in Gaza because there be no child in Gaza . do the Minister agree that the Prime Minister should respect the independence of the police and the safety advisory group ? have West Midlands police make a different decision , I really do wonder whether the hon . Gentleman would have come to this House to question that decision . I be afraid that I suspect the answer be yes . this be part of the problem with this debate : the chant that he talk about I think appal absolutely everybody in the House . he characterise the Government in a particular way , but he fail to make reference to the very many robust action that we have take around the israeli Government ' s action in Gaza : we have condemn they , we have sanction member of the israeli Government , we have restrict arm sale to Israel , and we have be out there on the ground play our part in peace negotiation and push for aid to get in at pace — we still be . but he do not reference that because , sadly , I think he be try to gain political support for his position . only a few of they have bother to listen to any of the debate , but if hon . member really want to resolve this , I say to they that they should work with we to ensure that all community can express their passionate , deeply hold view in appropriate and peaceful way but that this country can remain an open , tolerant , diverse place where everybody be free to walk the street and attend football game regardless of who they be . after the conflation of antisemitism with the banning of football hooligan who happen to come from Israel , and the abuse that I and other people have receive for support the ban on safety ground , I must put on the record that I and those people be not antisemitic — never have be and never will be . the Prime Minister describe the decision to ban the violent Maccabi hooligan by West Midlands police and Birmingham city council ' s safety advisory group as antisemitism . the leader of Reform , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , say that the police give in to extremist intimidation . the leader of the Liberal Democrats , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , call for the decision to be reverse , say , " you don ' t tackle antisemitism by ban its victim . " and there be racist comment by the would - be leader of the Tories , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who say that integration have fail in Birmingham . let I ask this : be it antisemitic for the israeli police to cancel a football derby in Tel Aviv last night after those same hooligan force the match to stop through violence and injury to fan and the police ? do we want those scene to be repeat in our stadium and on our street ? the decision that be make last night , as I understand it , be on the basis of rioting occur at a live event . it be not a decision that be unprecedented in the UK from a safety advisory group in recent time — [ interruption . ] sorry , do the hon . Member want to know my answer ? yes , please . in that case , can we have a little more decorum , because there be people outside of this place whose life be be directly affect by the debate we be have and the tone of this debate . the hon . member try to equate the two , but the truth be that he reveal himself in the language he use . he refer to the " banning of football hooligan " and specifically to violent football hooligan , but this be not a decision to ban football hooligan ; it be a decision to ban all away fan from a game , which a safety advisory group have not do in this country for nearly 25 year . it be a decision take not on the ground that he suggest , which be the risk pose by Maccabi Tel Aviv fan ; it be a decision take in no small part because of the risk pose to they because they support an israeli team and because they be jewish . I would gently say to he that if he be conflate everybody who support an israeli team — the vast majority of whom by definition will be jewish — with violent football hooligan , he should consider whether he can really stand in front of this House and say that he be not behave in a way that be antisemitic . I do not want to continue the debate . be the point of order absolutely necessary right now and relevant ? indicate assent . indicate assent . I call Ian Byrne . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) state that Maccabi Tel Aviv have " play a game in Istanbul where there be no trouble at all . " UEFA move the game to Hungary after turkish authority refuse to stage it in Turkey . hungarian authority then have it play behind closed door , hence no trouble . I be not sure that be actually a point of order , and I do not want to continue the debate , but the hon . Member have indeed put his point on the record . rise — be it an appropriate point of order ? yes . I call Zarah Sultana . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in my question to the Secretary of State , I clearly state that the Maccabi Tel Aviv football team be inextricably link to the israeli state , which be an apartheid state . the boycott of apartheid regime , such as apartheid South Africa , be a legitimate political stance . to label such a position as antisemitic , as the Secretary of State do , be entirely false and dangerous , and the way the Secretary of State have refer to I and my colleague be also laced with Islamophobia — order . Ms Sultana , I should not have to repeat myself : that be a continuation of the debate , and the urgent question have conclude . Post - 16 Education and Skills Strategy with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement to update the House on the Government ' s work to transform further and high education in this country . the House should be in no doubt : transformation be what we need , because the world be change , with artificial intelligence , machine learning , green energy and new and exciting technology . global force be reshape the world of work more and more quickly . they bring fresh and exciting chance for growth and opportunity . however , unless education and training in this country also change , we risk miss those chance and our young people risk be leave behind . we have see that before . under the previous Government , who think that college and technical education be for other people ' s child , apprenticeship start for our young people plummet . they talk down our university and be more interested in headline for culture war than in head - start for student . we will never take that path . I know that member on both side of the House will agree that we in this country have a duty — to our people , to our business and to our great history — not just to keep up but to lead the way . today we publish our post - 16 education and skill White Paper to seize the opportunity of this change world , to deliver growth for our economy and opportunity for our community , and to lead the way . my vision for post - 16 education in this country be a skill system that drive growth and be more balanced , more responsive and more reflective of the evolve world of work . it will add dynamism , invention and expertise to our economy , and it will go far by invite work people to be part of that economic strength and to add to and share in that success . the young person who have just leave school and be not sure of what be next deserve a range of quality option to choose the route that be right for he — a great apprenticeship , a top course at his local further education college , or to go off to university . a work mother deserve the opportunity to upskill and make the most of her talent . for she , it mean more than a job ; it mean a career , security and opportunity . I want to see that opportunity cascade into our community , with local business become more productive , take on more people and pay high salary ; hustle and bustle return to the high street ; the skilled workforce that we need to build more local home ; and empower NHS staff with the right skill to deliver a transformed service that be fit for the future — get this country move again . that be why the skill system be fundamental to national renewal . the White Paper be the turning point in how we go from a quarter of a million skilled vacancy sit unfilled to a pipeline of top - quality training to fill those job and create new one , from a muddle of confuse pathway to a coherent system meet the need of the modern economy , and from further education treat as the poor relation to our college stand side by side with our world - class university . the public will have hear such warm word about skill before , and they will know that warm word often fizzle out into nothing — no action and no change . but that be no long the case , because our reform of the skill system have already begin . we have establish Skills England , reform the growth and skill levy , slash red tape on apprenticeship , introduce technical excellence college and stabilise university finance , and we be roll out the youth guarantee . today , we be go far , guide by our industrial strategy . we will fill gap and meet need , through our new foundation apprenticeship or through short course in priority sector , which from April will be fund by the growth and skill levy . to deliver growth , we be invest £ 187 million for our " Techfirst " digital skill and AI learning , £ 182 million for engineering , £ 182 million for the defence talent pipeline and £ 625 million to train 60 , 000 more construction worker . that be all back up by 29 new technical excellence college . clean energy , defence , digital , advanced manufacturing , construction — what we need be technical excellence , and that be what our college can provide . through this White Paper we will work with our fantastic FE staff . we will draw on their passion and expertise . we be strengthen professional development in our college , partner with industry , and build on the evidence of what work . we will pair that support with improve performance measure , to bring our college out of the shadow of the university route , and to make it a pathway of equal importance , equal value , and equal pride in the eye of the nation . as the Prime Minister have say , that will be a defining cause for this Labour Government : no long a Cinderella service , but rather a system of high esteem , match high support with high challenge , and spread good practice from across the country to deliver high standard in every college . to seize the opportunity of the tech revolution , this country need not just lawyer , economist , and scientist ; we need wind turbine technician , video editor , and builder — career that we on this side of the House respect , and work that pay and lift up community . we be introduce rigorous study pathway , give young people a clear line of sight into great career . that include v - level , the brand new vocational pathway unveil in our White Paper today , sit proudly alongside a - level and t - level , and build the skill and knowledge that employer value . we be back those change with £ 800 million of extra investment for young people in our college and sixth form next year , above and beyond what be plan for this year and support 20 , 000 more student . that be why the target for 50 % of our young people to go to university be evolve , because to compete in this change world , we need to nurture a much broad range of talent . as the Prime Minister have announce , we have a new ambition . no long just half ; we want two - third of our young people to get into high - level learning , be it academic , technical , or an apprenticeship . but pro - technical and pro - vocational do not mean be anti - academic . our university be a stamp of quality recognise across the world , a source of immense national pride , and a driver of economic strength in our region . to any young person grow up in England today , I say this : if you want to go to university , if it be right for you , and if you meet the requirement , this Government will back you . that be why we be introduce new target maintenance grant for those student most in need , fund by a levy on international student ' fee , because in this country , open up access for domestic student from disadvantaged community be my priority . we also need a system that deliver for work people live busy life . that be why we be make high - level learn more flexible and available in bitesize chunk , with break point in degree , and support by the lifelong learning entitlement . but it be not only degree that matter . I want to see our university work with college to deliver more level 4 and 5 qualification , and to spread that excellence far and wide , make it easy for people to take those vital course in their local further education college , and deliver the " miss middle " of skill that be so important for our economy and for our people seek their next promotion . to safeguard the excellence in our university for future generation , last November I announce that tuition fee would increase by £ 285 this academic year . today I confirm that we will increase undergraduate tuition fee cap for all high education provider in line with forecast inflation for the next two academic year . we will future - proof our maintenance loan offer by increase maintenance loan in line with forecast inflation every academic year . to provide long - term certainty over future funding , we will legislate , when parliamentary time allow , to increase tuition fee cap automatically in the future , link to quality . we will not allow institution that do not take quality seriously make their student pay more . charge full fee will be conditional on high - quality teaching , balance stability for university with fairness for student and taxpayer . within this White Paper be a challenge to our university to build on what make they great , drive up access , drive out low - quality provision , improve collaboration and push forward innovation , deliver the research breakthrough that will revitalise our economy , and feed that energy back into our local community . we will support every young person to take the pathway that be right for they — technical , academic or vocational — but I will not accept their have no pathway at all . far too many of our young people find themselves not in employment , education or training . from there , they become isolated from society , disconnect from success and their hope fade , and that must change . we will strengthen the part play by school in the transition to post - 16 education , we will improve accountability , with a big role for strategic authority , and we will introduce a new guarantee . any 16 or 17 - year - old not in education or training will automatically get a place at a local provider . I will not let opportunity slip away , just as those young people be get go in life . the White Paper deliver on that promise to our young people to give they the skill that they need , but the task of revitalise our skill system be not the isolated work of one Department or another . it be the collective undertaking of local and national leader , together with our workforce , business and trade union . it be mission - lead Government in action and the prize be huge : opportunity for our young people , growth for our economy and renewal for our nation . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . I will start with v - level . if they be a continuation of the reform that we begin to simplify the post - 16 qualification landscape , I welcome it , but without the White Paper it be hard to understand whether that be the case . there be fundamental question regard the announcement that the statement do not answer , so I hope the Secretary of State will be able to shed some light on they today . be V - level simply a rebrande continuation of the reform that we begin , or be they a completely new qualification that will take year to develop ? what be happen with btec , Cambridge technical and other applied general qualification ? be they all be scrap ? if so , what be the timeline for that ? the Secretary of State say that she will consolidate 900 qualification , but into how many ? how will employer be involve in shape the new course ? as I say in oral question early , I be deeply concern by report today about the introduction of the so - call low - level qualification aim specifically at white working - class people . there have long be a term for that in education policy : the soft bigotry of low expectation . we reject that . let I be clear : if this be a plan , it be an insult . be we really say that white working - class child be less capable of achieve the same qualification as their peer , or that the answer to disadvantage be to lower expectation rather than to raise ambition ? we should aspire to the good qualification , teacher and outcome for those from disadvantaged background . we should not hard - bake the acceptance of second well into Government policy . will the Secretary of State guarantee that pupil who fail their English or math GCSE will be expect to retake they ? or be she content to assign they to second - tier qualification ? will she ensure that every single pupil , whatever their background , can expect to be support to achieve the same high standard ? the truth be that under Labour , young people be be badly let down . youth unemployment be rise and job prospect be sink as a result of this Government ' s choice . the Conservatives have a clear plan to put an end to debt - trap low - quality degree and to double the budget for apprenticeship . labour ' s plan be all over the place . at the Labour party conference , the Prime Minister declare that the ambition for 50 % of young people to go to university be not " right for our time " . the Prime Minister clearly have not be pay attention , as he abolish a target that the Conservatives have already get rid of . what be more , today ' s plan , as set out , would mean two third of young people would be in high - level learning , but , as I understand it , with only 10 % in high technical education or apprenticeship . that would increase the proportion of those go to university from 50 % to around 57 % . only a Prime Minister like this one could abolish a target that do not exist , then accidentally announce one that go far than the non - existent target he just pretend to get rid of . it be rather rich for the Secretary of State to boast that she have take decisive action to fix university finance — the House will forgive I if I take that with a pinch of salt . before the election , she promise that graduate " will pay less " under Labour . well , it turn out that they will pay more — quite a lot more — and every penny of the extra cost this year be swallow by labour ' s national insurance job tax . to be absolutely clear , the rise in tuition fee be a spending commitment , as it cost the Exchequer significant sum . the cost do not just fall on student ; it fall on the taxpayer too . when we be in government , we introduce t - level and degree - level apprenticeship and put English and math at the heart of all vocational qualification , because that be what ensure that young people have the good start in life . all this Government be do be embed the soft bigotry of low expectation in our system and do nothing to help young people with debt - trap degree . it be not good enough . it be a real shame that the right hon . Lady can not bring herself to welcome anything that we have announce today . it be par for the course ; that be how she like to do thing . in government , the Conservatives talk about how they value post - 16 education . their record be very different , of course . the difference between record and rhetoric be the difference between our party , and it be clear for all to see . we be invest £ 800 million more in further education , while college be cut to the bone under the Tories . we be put a real focus on vocational education and FE , restore their esteem , give they proper respect and simplify the qualification landscape that the Tories make even more muddled , and we be secure the future of our world - renowne university . I do not hear whether the right hon . Lady accept , disagree , welcome or do not support what I have set out today about university funding . if she do not support it , I would like to know how she intend to safeguard our world - lead university into the future . as usual , we hear plenty from the right hon . Lady about debt - trap degree . we often hear a lot of talk about low - value course or Mickey Mouse degree , with an answer never give as to which young people should not be go to university , which course that apply to or which institution she have in mind when she make sweeping generalisation of that kind . it be always work - class kid and other people ' s child who will lose out from the snobbery that come from say that education be not for people like they . this Labour Government will deliver a world - lead university system alongside brilliant technical and vocational route so that all our young people have access to brilliant career and training opportunity , include throughout their life . this be about choice for young people and find the route and the path that be good for they . this Labour Government say to young people , " further study be important ; it be for you . it matter to we , and it should matter to you as well . " that be why we be bring change to the qualification landscape . in answer to the right hon . Lady ' s question , we believe that t - level be a welcome and important addition to the qualification landscape . they provide high - quality technical qualification , with strong work placement alongside they , and sit alongside well - establish a - level , but the rest of the system alongside that be missing . we be make sure that we have good , strong route through V - level that young people will be able to combine with a - level study . that be for those young people who be not quite so clear at the age of 16 whether they want to specialise in one particular area . as the right hon . Lady will know , a t - level be the equivalent of three a - level , and it require young people at the age of 16 to make a definitive choice about the future of their career . we want to ensure that there be a range of high - quality option so that those 900 qualification will move towards become part of the new v - level system . we will launch a consultation on how we deliver that , and we be keen to hear from business as a part of that . the right hon . Lady ask about GCSEs and English and math resit , and she criticise our plan to get more young people through their English and math gcse . in order to do that , there have to be a stepping stone to make it happen . an endless cycle of unnecessary resit be not the way to support more young people , include those from disadvantaged background , to get English or math gcse . she and her party be happy to consign a generation of young people to failure , endless resit and a sense of desperation . we want to ensure that they make progress and master the basic then move on to get that good , strong GCSE pass . this government will ensure that all our young people have the opportunity and chance that they need to get on . the Conservatives might be determined to ensure that few young people have the chance to go on to university and that our business do not have the skill they need , but this Labour Government will ensure that apprenticeship start be there , with good , strong fe option alongside our world - lead university . that be what this White Paper be all about . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I welcome the Government ' s focus on further education and skill , which have be overlook for far too long and be critical to the delivery of the Government ' s mission . my Committee have recently undertake an inquiry into fe and skill , and I be pleased to see a number of our recommendation reflect in the statement , particularly in the commitment to address the vortex of failure in which the current system of English and math resit trap far too many young people . I welcome the priority of increase the quality of further education , but there be two key contributor to quality that the Secretary of State do not mention in her statement . the first be the 15 % pay gap between teacher in school and teacher in FE college , which be a barrier to recruitment and retention for college . the second be the inability of FE college to reclaim vat , a situation for which my Committee find no justification and which City College Norwich tell we make the difference of a whole floor to a new building that it have recently complete . how do the Secretary of State plan to ensure that the further education sector have not only the policy framework to improve quality but the necessary resource ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Education Committee . we continue to keep all such matter under review , and I can be clear with she that we believe that further education college be engine of growth and opportunity in our community . this White Paper be about ensure a prestigious , world - class system in which we will reform initial training in further education , continue to invest in whole - career professional development for FE teacher and build tie with industry to ensure that FE teacher have the great opportunity to develop their teaching skill and subject expertise to help young people to achieve and thrive . alongside that , we will match that support with appropriate challenge , so that we continue to raise the bar on standard through the new ofsted system with the backstop of the FE Commissioner . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I too thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . there be far too much in this White Paper to respond to comprehensively in two minute , so let I focus on three critical issue . the first issue be v - level . the Secretary of State talk about end confusion , yet she be introduce a new qualification that sound remarkably like btec — they be flexible , sector - base and can mix with a - level . btec already work : 200 , 000 student take they last year , 99 % of university accept they and one in five UK worker have one . if we be recreate btec , why scrap they first ? we should keep both until 2030 , so that we can compare outcome . t - level reach 1 % uptake after five year , so let we not repeat that mistake . the second issue be lifelong learning . the Secretary of State rightly speak about the work mother need to upskill , but will the support be sufficient to make that real ? the lifelong learning entitlement be welcome , but the Government have cut over - 21 apprenticeship , include those in shortage profession such as nursing and social work . what confidence do the Government have that their lle can cover the cost of provide that vocational education , particularly in subject with high operating cost ? the third issue be the international student levy . we support maintenance grant — another manifesto commitment we make that the Government have adopt — but fund they by tax international student be self - defeat . this be incredibly tricky to model , but analysis show that the levy could cut up to 135 , 000 domestic student place over five year and reduce our economy by £ 2 . 2 billion . that be not help disadvantaged student . will the Secretary of State make the modelling transparent and promise that opportunity will not be narrow by the levy ? there be many more question , but I appreciate that I do not have time to ask they all . there be much to welcome in this White Paper ' s ambition , but we must guard against unintended consequence and miss opportunity . the Lib Dems stand ready to work with the Government to get this right . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . V - level will replace around 900 qualification for 16 to 19 - year - old at level 3 . the current system be fragment , with a vast array of qualification that be too difficult for employer and young people to navigate , so we will introduce new v - level . that be a new vocational option that will sit alongside a - level and t - level at level 3 , to make sure we have the right qualification mix available for young people . we will keep fund for most exist qualification in place until new V - level and other qualification come in , but fund for all qualification in other t - level area under review will continue on the current timeline . we will confirm the list of qualification that will have funding remove soon . turn to the lifelong learning entitlement , this be an important change that will transform the student finance system in England . it will broaden access to high - quality , flexible education , include for adult who want to go back into education . it will launch in academic year 2026 - 27 for learner study course that start on or after 1 January 2027 . this will allow learner to use the new entitlement more flexibly than ever before to fund individual module , as well as full course , at level 4 to 6 , regardless of whether they be provide by a college , university or independent provider . the hon . Gentleman ask about international student and the international student levy . to be clear , international student make an important contribution to our country , our community , our town and city , and our society . however , I do think it be right that with the contribution we be seek through the international student levy , we will be able to reinvest in new target maintenance grant for domestic student . while I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s support for the introduction of such new grant , the liberal Democrats will have to set out how they intend to pay for they . rise — order . we will have just another 30 minute or so of question , because we have a big debate later , so colleague must keep their question short . the previous Government try hard to take a hatchet to many vocational course , reflect how little they value those hugely important subject and skill . can the Minister confirm that the new v - level qualification show that this Government have listen to the education sector , employer and student , and will allow more young people great choice in achieve their pathway to a successful future ? yes , that be right . V - level will offer a genuine choice for young people to pursue several interest before specialise . they will sit alongside t - level and a - level , and will be link to the skill and knowledge that employer tell we they need and the career that young people wish to pursue . this be an important step forward , one that will ensure all of our young people have a good range of option available to they . have five child , I understand that not everybody learn the same way , as all my child be different . however , what consideration have be give to the position of student with special educational need and disability and the rurality of constituency such as mine , which can pose challenge ? yes on both point . I recognise the challenge that people in rural community sometimes face in access work placement , and we continue to work with business and college to make sure they be available for t - level course . on support for child with SEND , many of our FE college already lead the way on what good provision look like . they be an important step for many young people make that transition at 16 , include from specialist provision into mainstream provision . as part of our wide SEND reform , we want to make sure that child ' s journey from early year through the school system and into further education and beyond work with those moment of key transition . our FE college have a critical role to play in that . exeter have a fantastic tertiary college — Exeter college — which , thank to this Government , will be a technical excellence college for construction . we also have an exceptional specialist math school that provide excellent math , physics and computing education , which be skill we really need in the south - west . how will these reform raise standard for every child in Exeter , to help make sure they reach their full potential ? technical excellence college , include those in my hon . friend ' s community , will act as hub of excellence that will raise standard across the fe sector . each TEC hub will offer advanced facility , expert staff , and high - quality curriculum develop with the industry . this will also allow other provider and business to meet the need of high - growth sector , include construction . the Government say that they want to simplify the post - 16 system , but the reality be that fund for further education remain chronically low . will the Secretary of State look again at further education funding stream — for example , let college reclaim vat , as school with sixth form do , and extend the pupil premium to post - 16 level ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her suggestion . for further education , we will invest nearly £ 800 million extra in 16 to 19 funding next year , alongside capital investment of over £ 2 billion to support the expansion of capacity , modernisation of college estate , and delivery of training in the area of great need . however , there be more that we need to do , especially in provide support for young people who be neet . that be why today ' s White Paper set out our direction for make sure that all young people have good route into employment , education and training . this be a timely set of proposal in an area that be too often overlook by Government . in my constituency , further education have not function properly since the Tories ' fail top - down review of post - 16 education in Cheshire lead to the closure of the main fe campus . neet level in Winsford be now five percentage point high than the borough - wide average . to this end , the propose enhance support for 16 and 17 - year - old to take up education or training and stay engaged will be critical . what role can the Secretary of State see the mayoral combined authority have in set the strategic direction and provide governance for post - 16 education in place such as Mid Cheshire ? we do think there be an important role for our mayoral strategic authority , especially when it come to support college and make sure we have good link - up between college and business . I would be happy to look in more detail at the situation my hon . friend outline . the Secretary of State have claim today that she be expand opportunity , while raise tuition fee and cut international baccalaureate funding for sixth form in Bexley with little notice . who do she consult on the decision to cut IB funding ? what analysis be undertake , and will she apologise to the school across the UK leave in limbo by her reckless approach to education ? as I say , next year , we will invest £ 800 million extra in 16 - to - 19 funding . we have seek to refocus the large programme uplift that sit alongside that investment on math and STEM for those study four or more a - level , because we think that be important for our industrial strategy priority , but there will be transitional protection for those school affect . student will still be able to study for the ib , and school will be welcome and able to offer it through the funding stream they receive . I be delighted that Bedford college have be name one of 10 new construction technical excellence college , back by £ 100 million of Government investment , to train the skilled professional that the UK need for housing and infrastructure . I also welcome today ' s measure to strengthen vocational qualification . the new qualification to well prepare student for GCSE English and math resit be positive , but can the Secretary of State confirm that those qualification will be fully fund , give the current financial pressure on FE college ? we be invest more in further education , with £ 800 million extra next year . we be also commit to establish 19 more technical excellence college on top of the 10 construction TECs launch in August — include Bedford , as my hon . friend mention . those technical excellence college will act as hub of excellence , raise standard across the sector and provide more opportunity for young people to move into career such as those in construction - relate field . that be why we have also bring in new foundation apprenticeship , to give more young people the chance to understand a broad range of offer within an area before decide to specialise . as young people will now have to choose between t - level and the new v - level , can the Secretary of State explain what be the main distinguishing feature of the two qualification , and what in broad term be the likely difference in career outcome ? the new system will involve a - level , t - level and v - level . t - level represent three a - level ; a - level be already well understand by many people in this country , while T - level be a relatively new addition , but a very high - quality technical route . alongside a - level , there will be v - level . these will not replace the large - scale programme that t - level offer , but will provide opportunity for young people to combine study of both academic and vocational qualification , particularly those young people who be not quite clear at 16 exactly which area they wish to specialise in . this will allow for a combination of study . I strongly welcome this strategy today , particularly the commitment that the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State have make to guarantee all 16 - year - old a college place . however , will she commit to work towards close the legislative gap , where child between the age of five and 16 with SEND can access home - to - school transport , as can those with SEND from age 19 to 25 , but between the age of 16 and 19 there be currently no statutory provision for they to have home - to - school transport . an estimated one in seven disabled young people , equate to 13 , 500 people , be unable to access college this year alone as a result . I recognise the passion and expertise that my hon . friend bring to this subject , and I would be happy to discuss that issue with she in more detail . perhaps the big single barrier that prevent young people from rural community such as mine access vocational study through FE college be that they live so far away and travel cost a fortune . for a student live in Appleby , Kirkby Stephen , Coniston or Windermere , it can cost they £ 1 , 000 a year to get to Kendal , Barrow , Lancaster or Penrith . what will the Secretary of State do to put an end to that barrier to young people stay in further education ? I recognise the additional barrier that exist around transport , which be a particular challenge in rural community , sadly , although not uniquely in rural community . that be part of the reason why this government be bring forward wide - range reform , include to our bus network , to make sure that it serve the interest of community , business and student much more effectively . I gather from my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) sit next to I on the Front Bench that extra investment be go into rural bus service in his and the hon . Gentleman ' s part of the world . I warmly welcome this statement . one of the most shameful legacy of the last 14 year in Peterborough have be the rise number of young people leave school with no qualification and no hope , with neet up and apprenticeship down . skill be not just good for growth , but good for hope , good for young people , good for their parent and good for community . one of the most difficult part in the whole vocational network be the navigation that employer and young people have to do with career service , which have be break over the past 14 year . can my right hon . friend tell we more about how career service and good quality advice will be at the heart of reinvigorate vocational qualification in Peterborough and the country ? my hon . friend always champion young people in Peterborough and the need to take action in this area . we will ensure that young people have good career guidance and work experience . the White Paper also set out an automatic backstop for all 16 - year - old that guarantee they a further education place in reserve . that will ensure that young people at risk of drop out of education be give a place and wraparound support , because we know that the fast we work with young people , the more likely it be that that will be effective . that run alongside strengthen requirement on school to make sure that their pupil have place in post - 16 provision . the Secretary of State say that she want to see empower NHS staff with the right skill to deliver a transformed service , with which I absolutely agree . level 7 apprenticeship , such as those provide by Cranfield University in Mid Bedfordshire , be so important to deliver that , but the Department for Education have cut funding to level 7 apprenticeship , mean that the Department of Health and Social Care will be fund ongoing provision . do the Secretary of State think it be responsible for she to balance the book of her Department on the back of the NHS ? it be right that we refocus our skill system on young people , and that be what we have do through the change that the hon . member mention . we have also make sure that under - 22s continue to be eligible for the level 7 funding that he talk about , but I make no apology for refocus the system on young people and their opportunity , and I be make sure they have every chance to get on . my constituency be bless with two world - class university and an excellent further education college that provide a range of degree , apprenticeship and qualification . I recently meet the Samee charity , which provide a structured training programme for young people with learn difficulty to get into self - employment . can the Secretary of State tell I how this White Paper support those type of training programme and support those young people to thrive ? it be good to hear about the provision that exist in her community in Bournemouth . we know that we need a range of option for young people , whether through further education or independent training provider . I also recognise the critical role that many who sit outside of formal system can play in support young people , whether through mentor or ongoing support , particularly those who have have difficult experience in life and be furth away from the labour market . the Education Secretary ' s focus today be on the new vocational qualification training , which will be welcome for student in England . in Wales , however , where her party have lead the Government for the past 25 year , the apprenticeship budget have be cut by 14 % . will she be lobby the Chancellor ahead of the Budget to ensure that Wales have a fair funding settlement that would support apprenticeship ? Wales and Scotland both secure the big post - devolution settlement that we have ever see , yet they still continue to be against they . I thank the Secretary of State for her announcement today , particularly the plan increase in tuition fee and maintenance loan , which will be warmly welcome by student and the two world - class university on my patch , the University of Sheffield and Hallam University . will the Secretary of State join I in affirm that the Government be commit to ensure equal access and full support for the disadvantaged ? will they explore whether we can address adequate maintenance support for child by increase it in line with the cost of living ? will no specific pathway be exclude , allow student to have opportunity and drive economic growth ? my hon . friend always champion the fantastic institution in her community , and I know the important role that they play in Sheffield and the wide region , provide job , training and opportunity not just for our young people , but for adult return to education . that be why we have today take the decision to increase fee , give institution the certainty they need while provide more support around maintenance loan and start the process of introduce new target maintenance grant for less well - off student . I should add that , as part of this reform , we be also announce additional support for care leaver . they will be automatically eligible for the maximum maintenance loan . that welcome step will provide a big support to some of the most vulnerable child in our country . the Secretary of State praise the fantastic FE staff and describe FE college as " no long a Cinderella service , but rather a system of high esteem " . how do she propose to do that while still maintain the pay gap for FE staff compare with teacher in other educational setting ? I recognise the challenge there . it develop over many year , and we as a Government inherit that . we be invest more this year in further education , and there will be £ 800 million more next year into 16 - to - 19 education , which will make a big difference . but I recognise the ongoing need to support our brilliant staff work in FE , whether they be teach staff or support staff . through our " improve education together " partnership in the Department for Education , we be ensure that their voice be hear as part of the reform we be take forward . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the Government ' s continued commitment to promote vocational and technical education , which be welcome . can she outline how the White Paper will address the capacity issue that a lot of college and sixth form be experience , include in my constituency ? that will help we get that NEET rate down . I recognise the challenge that we have see , in part because of the big number of 16 to 19 - year - old we have come through the system . that be why we be prioritise invest in 16 - to - 19 funding for our college and ensure we have more capital available to create the place that be necessary , work with local area . run alongside that be our technical excellence college , which will drive up standard , spread good practice and be hub of excellence in their region work with other college . medium report , but not the statement , talk about the resit regime for English and math , and I hope that the young people who fail to achieve the grade but who thrive with functional skill be not listen to the shadow Minister dismiss their achievement . be the Secretary of State aware that young people achieve a 3 in year 11 be force to retake , but if they achieve a 2 , they be allow to take functional skill ? where a young person fail a second time , there be no funding for college to move they across into that other pathway . I recognise what be come up , but the young people in the system now need some urgent attention , so that they do not fall into a doom loop . will she comment on that ? we want to ensure that more young people secure a good , strong GCSE in English or math , but we recognise that if someone secure a grade 1 in August and be then expect to resit a full GCSE a matter of month later , that be not likely to lead to the good outcome that we want to see . we have focus on improve the teaching of English and math in further education , and we have issue new guidance to give institution a clear direction . however , I think it right for we to help young people to secure a firm foundation in the basic through the new qualification , and then move on to a GCSE . that sit alongside the change we be make for adult in respect of occupational standard , to allow more of they to complete their apprenticeship as well . a constituent have write to I to highlight that they have successfully complete a level 3 BTEC diploma in musical theatre . to go on to university , they need an extended diploma — a third year — but their college will not let they do it because they have not achieve a grade 4 in GCSE math , which their university course would not require anyway , so my constituent be be hold back from a degree and a career as a result of not pass an exam in an unrelated subject . how can we break down these barrier so that young people be not hold back in life ? we do want to ensure that more young people obtain that strong GCSE pass at grade 4 or above , but about a third of 16 - year - old do not achieve that at present , and sadly the number be even high among white working - class pupil , who be more than twice as likely as their more affluent peer to need to resit their exam . that be something that we absolutely must tackle , but if my hon . friend will give I some more information , I will be happy to look at the case in that wide context . I welcome the announcement that the Government be enhance their provision of post - 16 vocational qualification , but when will the Secretary of State outline a dedicated post - 16 strategy for young people with learn difficulty and disability ? I recently hold a heartbreaking roundtable with young people with learn disability in Eyres Monsell , in my constituency . although they have be do work experience for year , when it come to give they full - time work , our corporate supermarket let they down . they want to work , they be able to work , and with the right support they will work . I recognise what the hon . Gentleman have say , and I have hear of similar experience from my constituent and family across the country who have speak about the need to reform the SEND system across the board , throughout education . we want to build on what be already work well in post - 16 provision , to ensure that more of that successful transition can happen for young people with SEND . we will provide more detail in the school White Paper , but I want to acknowledge the incredible work that many FE college already do in support that transition . we be continue to invest through the internship work consortium to ensure that support internship be there for young people who need they . in my constituency , major employer offer excellent apprenticeship , but the number of place be limited . they have tell I that they would welcome the ability to share unsuccessful application with similar employer , such as small and medium - sized enterprise in their supply chain , rather than their be lose to the system . what can the Education Secretary do to encourage such collaboration between employer to boost the take - up of high - quality apprenticeship ? my hon . friend set out what sound like an interesting and useful approach to allow employer to work together more effectively , but we also want to see more collaboration between college , and between college and university . the White Paper set out a vision for a more coherent system that will be easy for both student and employer to navigate , but I would be happy to hear more from my hon . friend about the work that be go on in his constituency , and to establish whether there be any wide lesson that we can take into the Department to look into what more can be do . Torquay Boys ' grammar school have long deliver the international baccalaureate . my own eld son , George , have benefit from that and , under the scheme , have volunteer in a care home . he be now on the cusp of become a registrar for care of the elderly . during my meeting with the head of Torquay Boys ' last Friday , he express particular concern about the impact of the lack of social mobility and the impact on the ability to deliver language . will the Secretary of State think again about these cut to the international baccalaureate ? we be talk about a relatively small number of student . college and school will retain the freedom to decide what study programme they wish to offer their student , but we as a Government have decide to reprioritise the large programme uplift on industrial strategy priority , involve , for example , those study for four or more a - level in STEM subject , include further math . we think that be the right decision , but there will be transitional protection for institution that currently offer the international baccalaureate . I welcome the statement , include the key commitment to break down barrier to opportunity to enable young people to gain the education that they deserve . this new focus will also support the employer who have be consistently talk to I about the skill challenge they face , particularly those relate to vocational skill . however , kid in my constituency be often lock out of vital opportunity simply because of the lack of transport . what work be the Secretary of State do with transport colleague to challenge that barrier and ensure that those young people in my rural constituency have access to those technical qualification ? I recognise the challenge that my hon . friend have mention . it be , of course , a challenge for rural community in particular , but it often affect area that be not rural , because of our fragmented transport network and the lack of join - up between transport system and the increase lack of bus service . we , as a Government , be take action in respect of bus service to provide more opportunity for young people to get to college in order to study , but also to grow business . I have see some fantastic work , lead by many of our mayor , to bring together a well offer for young people , to allow they to travel to place of study and to work placement , and to gain access to other opportunity . that be a model that those in other area might be able to consider in the future . I welcome the Government ' s focus on vocational skill , but I fear that school in my constituency will struggle to keep pace with qualification change , and that 2027 be too soon for the transition to V - level to be complete . college such as Esher sixth form college deliver btec , and have do so successfully for many year . what assurance can the Secretary of State give to those college that they will be support in that transition , and how exactly will it be implement by 2027 ? there will be a consultation to which business , representative of the education sector and other will be able to contribute . we want to ensure that we get this right , but we believe that it be necessary to simplify the vast array of qualification at level 3 through vocational route , and to align those route well with a - level study as well . I recently have the pleasure of visit North Kent College in Gravesend , which be one of the 10 new construction technical excellence college . the announcement of the new V - level be a welcome step , give vocational education real parity of esteem with academic and technical route . can the Secretary of State assure I , however , that the assessment of V - level will involve physically demonstrate competence , such as practical or placement examination and build a portfolio of evidence , rather than exam - base memory test , which do not reflect real life ? will she meet I to discuss that far ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend , and I be delighted that North Kent College will be one of our first 10 new technical excellence college . that will give young people in her community and beyond the chance to obtain a well - pay , secure job in one of the Government ' s key area as we seek to build more home . I would be happy to discuss far with she the reform that we intend to introduce , and there will be a full consultation in which people will be able to take part . I welcome the statement . in Blackburn I have be work with our college and jobcentre to help young people access real opportunity , but in town such as mine , which be among the most deprived in the country , it be not talent but investment that be lack . what strategy will the Secretary of State employ to ensure that skill funding truly reach place such as Blackburn , and will she meet I to discuss the serious shortage of ESOL space , which be cause many constituent to wait for up to a year , out of work ? we be invest more in further education and also in our school system , but we recognise that one in seven young people age between 16 and 24 be not in education , employment , or training . we urgently need to bring that figure down , because every single day we see the consequence of that failure , both for the individual young person and for our wide economy . that be why many of the measure in the White Paper be about how we can give young people the support that they need . if the hon . Gentleman write to I , I will respond to his specific point about ESOL . I should draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as a governor of a sixth - form college in Stoke - on - Trent and as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on sixth form education . the V - level provide an exciting opportunity for vocational qualification , and the Secretary of State be right to praise college , but she will know that those same college be deeply worried about the defunding of btec and what that mean for student choice in the 2026 - 27 academic year . will she give a commitment from the Dispatch Box that BTEC funding will continue until V - level be in place , and if she can not , can she explain what young people access further education next year will be able to look to before they be in place ? student wish to study for a large qualification should study for t - level where they be on offer , but to ease the transition to v - level , the DFE will retain funding for qualification with 719 guide learning hour or below in t - level area until the new V - level be introduce for that area , so we will be keep fund for most exist qualification . we will keep that in place until the new v - level and other qualification come in , and we will confirm the list of qualification that will have funding remove in due course . we have new technical excellence college , new defence academy and new clean energy college , but not in Scotland , because further education and skill be devolve to the Scottish Government . the Scottish Auditor General ' s report , publish this month , show that funding for scottish college have be cut by 20 % . do the Secretary of State agree that only Scottish Labour can stop the SNP systemically hollow out scottish college and rob scot of all age of opportunity , include in my West Dunbartonshire constituency ? I agree very strongly with my hon . friend . as he say , college in Scotland have have a 20 % real - term funding cut in this parliamentary session , accord to a new report from Audit Scotland , and the SNP Government have be accuse of guillotine the sector . that go hand in hand with few opportunity for apprenticeship for our young people , with start fall by nearly a third in eight year under the SNP Government — and that be before we even get on to their terrible record on the incredibly wide attainment gap and the shocking outcome for working - class child across Scotland . that be why Scotland , now more than ever , need a new First Minister in the shape of Anas Sarwar . nearly 6 % of Knowsley ' s 16 to 17 - year - old be not in employment , education or training — one of the high rate in the country — so I very much welcome today ' s statement . by the way , a - level leave not just my constituency but the whole borough of Knowsley under the last Tory Government , so we will take no lesson in aspiration for young working - class people from they . can the Secretary of State tell I how the measure outline in the White Paper will ensure that Knowsley ' s young people get the opportunity their potential deserve ? one of the measure outline in today ' s White Paper be an automatic backstop for all 16 - year - old that guarantee they a further education place in reserve , so that young people at risk of drop out get wraparound support to ensure that they remain in education or training . we know that if we do not get that support in place ahead of the start of the academic year , we will see a big drop - off , and we also know the damage that that do throughout people ' s life . my hon . friend consistently champion the need for expand provision in her constituency , and as I commit in oral question early , I would be happy to discuss that far with she . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will not seek to repeat discussion from the urgent question early , nor will I repeat the comment that have be make about I on social medium , but may I seek your advice on how member on both side of the House can be encourage to temper their language outside this place ? comment make on social medium can quickly get out of control . they have an impact on wide public discourse and , as I have experience at first hand , on the safety and security of Members and their family . I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . while Mr Speaker be not responsible for what individual member say , he be nevertheless clear about the importance of the safety and security of Members and their family . I would always encourage member to speak about one another with courtesy and respect , and to be mindful of the content that they put on social medium and of its impact on balanced public discourse . Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill consider in Committee [ Ms Nusrat Ghani in the Chair ] clause 1 - Commencement of Treaty and main provision of this Act I remind member that in Committee , they should not address the Chair as " Deputy Speaker " ; please use our name when address the Chair . " Madam Chair " or " Madam Chairman " be acceptable . before we begin proceeding on the Bill , I can inform the House that I , as Chairman of Ways and Means , be minded to select amendment 7 and new clause 1 , in the name of the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , and amendment 9 , in the name of the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) , for separate decision at the end of the debate . I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1A ) the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act do not come into force until the duty outline in section [ the additional period and right to extend : duty to publish legal advice and risk assessment ] be discharge . " this amendment together with NC2 would prevent the Treaty from come into force until the Government have publish any legal advice or risk assessment regard the UK ' s ability to extend its right over Diego Garcia after the initial period specify in the Treaty . with this it will be convenient to consider the following : amendment 7 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1A ) the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act do not come into force until the Secretary of State lay before Parliament a memorandum on the obligation under international law which require the UK to cede sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory to the Government of Mauritius . ( 1b ) the memorandum specify in subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) a summary of the legal advice receive by the UK Government on this issue ; ( b ) an analysis of the status of UK ' s sovereignty over the British Indian Ocean Territory under international law ; ( c ) the legal argument for the cessation of british sovereignty over the British Indian Ocean Territory ; and ( d ) the risk which the UK Government may have face have it not reach an agreement with the Government of Mauritius . ( 1C ) the report specify in subsection ( 1A ) and ( 1B ) must be lay before Parliament no later than two month after this Act receive Royal Assent . " amendment 9 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1A ) before section 2 to 4 of this Act come into force , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) seek to undertake negotiation with the Government of Mauritius on whether Mauritius will establish a right for chagossian to return and reside in the Chagos Islands ; and ( b ) seek agreement to a referendum for Chagossians on self - determination within any negotiation which take place under paragraph ( a ) ; and ( c ) lie before both Houses of Parliament a report on progress on establish negotiation with the Government of Mauritius and the outcome of any that take place . ( 1b ) within two month of the report be lay before the House of Commons under paragraph ( 1a ) , the Secretary of State must table a substantive motion in the House of Commons on the content of the report . " this amendment require that the Government must undertake negotiation with Mauritius on a chagossian right of return and on a referendum , with a report lay before Parliament on the outcome of the negotiation . the Government must subsequently table a substantive motion in the House of Commons on the content of that report . amendment 10 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1A ) the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act do not come into force until the Secretary of State establish a public consultation of chagossian people reside in the UK on the Treaty . ( 1b ) the public consultation under section ( 1A ) must be establish within two month of this Act receive Royal Assent . " this amendment require the Government to establish a public consultation with the chagossian people reside in the UK , before the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act can come into force . amendment 11 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1A ) the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act do not come into force until the Secretary of State make a statement before Parliament outline proposal for a public consultation on the Treaty . ( 1b ) a statement make under subsection ( 1A ) must be make within two month of this Act receive Royal Assent . " this amendment require the Government to make a statement before Parliament outline proposal for a public consultation on the Treaty within two month of this Act receive Royal Assent , before the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act can come into force . amendment 14 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1A ) the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act do not come into force until the Secretary of State lay before Parliament an impact assessment detail the benefit and cost to the United Kingdom , include in financial and security term , of the Treaty . ( 1b ) the Secretary of State must lay the impact assessment under section ( 1A ) within 2 month of the passing of this Act . " this amendment require the Government to publish an impact assessment detail the benefit and cost to the United Kingdom , include in financial and security term , of the Treaty within two month of this Act receive Royal Assent , before the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act can come into force . clause stand part . amendment 13 , in clause 2 , page 1 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( b ) . this amendment remove section 2 ( b ) of the Bill which aim to remove citizen of the British Indian Ocean Territory from the list of British Overseas Territories recognise under the British Nationality Act 1981 , thus preserve british Chagossian ' s nationality and associated right . clause 2 to 4 stand part . amendment 3 , in clause 5 , page 3 , line 29 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) . amendment 4 , page 3 , line 36 , at begin insert — " with the exception of the subject matter list in subsection ( 3A ) , " . amendment 8 , page 3 , line 40 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 2A ) an order under this Act may not be make unless a draft of the order have be lay before Parliament and approve by a resolution of each House . " this amendment provide that any order make under the Act would need to have the approval of each House of Parliament . amendment 6 , page 3 , line 40 , leave out " be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament " and insert " may not be make unless a draft of the order have be lay before Parliament and approve by a resolution of each House " . amendment 5 , page 4 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) an order under this section relate to Diego Garcia , or the right of Chagossians reside in the United Kingdom , may not be make unless a draft of the order have be lay before Parliament and approve by a resolution of each House . " clause 5 stand part . amendment 2 , in clause 6 , page 4 , line 17 , leave out " see section 1 ( 2 ) " and insert " see section 1 ( 1A ) " . this amendment be consequential on NC2 . clause 6 stand part . new clause 1 — approval of payment to Mauritius by the House of Commons — " ( 1 ) no payment may be make by the Government of the United Kingdom to the Government of Mauritius under Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Treaty without the approval of the House of Commons . ( 2 ) no development framework under Article 11 ( 1 ) ( c ) may be agree by the Government of the United Kingdom with the Government of Mauritius without the approval of the House of Commons . ( 3 ) no payment may be make under any development framework agree between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of Mauritius without the approval of the House of Commons . ( 4 ) the approval require by subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) must be in the form of a resolution of the House of Commons . " this new clause require parliamentary approval for any payment by the UK Government to the Government of Mauritius under the Treaty . new clause 2 — the additional period and right to extend : duty to publish legal advice and risk assessment — " ( 1 ) within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament any legal advice and any risk assessment give to the Government relate to — ( a ) the ability of the United Kingdom to extend the duration of the Treaty ' s provision for the additional period of 40 year ( " the additional period " ) specify in Article 13 ( 2 ) of the Treaty , include — ( i ) any advice pertain to the automaticity , or otherwise , of the UK secure the additional period ; ( ii ) any obligation place on both party to negotiate the additional period ; ( iii ) any risk assessment of the impact on the United Kingdom ' s strategic interest of not secure the additional period ; and ( b ) the ' right of first refusal ' offer to the United Kingdom should the additional period not be negotiate at the end of the Treaty ' s initial duration under Article 13 ( 5 ) of the Treaty , include whether such a right exist if the additional period expire without a further extension be agree . " new clause 3 — write instrument on the Marine Protected Area : approval by the House of Commons — " ( 1 ) no write instrument on the establishment and management of its Marine Protected Area in the Chagos Archipelago provide for by Article 5 of the Treaty , include any change to current restriction on fishing , commercial and extractive activity , may be agree to by the Government of the United Kingdom unless — ( a ) a Minister of the Crown have lay before Parliament a copy of the write instrument , ( b ) the write instrument and an explanatory memorandum have be publish , and ( c ) period A have expire without the House of Commons have resolve , within period a , that the write instrument should not be agree . ( 2 ) Period A be the period of 21 sit day begin with the first sit day after the date on which the requirement in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) be meet . ( 3 ) ' an explanatory memorandum ' have the meaning give in section 24 of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . " this new clause provide that any write instrument on the Marine Protected Area will be subject to the approval of the House of Commons in a process equivalent to that require for treaty under section 20 of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . new clause 4 — ecological status of the Marine Protected Area — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within two year of the passing of this Act and within every subsequent two year , lie before both Houses of Parliament and publish a report on the status of the Marine Protected Area ( the ' MPA ' ) . ( 2 ) any report make under subsection ( 1 ) must include , but not be limit to — ( a ) number of different specie of coral , fish and mollusc in the Marine Protected Area ; ( b ) coral reef resilience ; ( c ) fish stock ; ( d ) ocean acidification ; ( e ) any degradation of the marine or terrestrial environment ; and ( f ) a complete record of the vessel ( nature and flag ) that enter the MPA . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to report regularly on the status of the Marine Protected Area . new clause 5 — report to the Intelligence and Security Committee — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within twelve month of this Act receive Royal Assent , and every year subsequently , report to the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament , establish under section 1 of the Justice and Security Act 2013 , on the security of the military base on Diego Garcia and the buffer zone . ( 2 ) the report in subsection ( 1 ) must include , but shall not be limit to — ( a ) the security of the buffer zone ; ( b ) the management and use of the electromagnetic spectrum ; ( c ) the presence of any foreign security force on the island , whether civilian or military ; ( d ) a complete record of the vessel , include their nature and flag , that enter the Marine Protected Area ; ( e ) a complete record of the notification the United Kingdom have give the Government of Mauritius about activity on Diego Garcia ; ( f ) a complete record of any information pass from the United Kingdom to the Government of Mauritius , include any military operation , personnel movement , infrastructure development , communication , and logistical support . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , ' buffer zone ' have the meaning of the 24 nautical mile surround the island of Diego Garcia . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to report annually to the Intelligence and Security Committee about the security of the military base on Diego Garcia and the security of the buffer zone . new clause 6 — report on the impact of UNCLOS on the operation of the Treaty — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must report to Parliament within one year of the passing of this Act , and each subsequent year , on the impact that the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea ( ' UNCLOS ' ) have have on the operation of the Treaty . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament annually about the impact that the United Nations Conventions on the Law of the Sea have on the operation of the Treaty . new clause 7 — right of Chagossians — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must consult the chagossian community base in the United Kingdom on the implementation of the Treaty . ( 2 ) the matter the Secretary of State must consult on shall include , but not be limit to — ( a ) the Government of the United Kingdom ' s response to any consultation by the Government of Mauritius on the regulation to establish a Trust Fund under article ( 11 ) ( b ) of the Treaty ; and ( b ) any area of dispute concern the right of the chagossian people that arise between the government of the United Kingdom and Mauritius , before such dispute be formally discuss in the Joint Committee under the dispute settlement process establish in Article 14 of the Treaty . ( 3 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , and at least once every subsequent year , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report contain an assessment of the effort of the UK Government to uphold the right of Chagossians under the term of the Treaty . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to consult the chagossian community in the UK on the discharge of the UK Government ' s obligation under the Treaty , and to report annually on how the UK Government have uphold the right of Chagossians . new clause 8 — report on compliance of the Treaty and the Act with UN General Assembly Resolutions on decolonisation — " ( 1 ) within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must produce a report on the compliance of the Treaty agree with the Government of Mauritius , and the provision of section ( 2 ) of this Act , with the follow Resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly — ( a ) resolution 567 ( VI ) , ( b ) Resolution 648 ( VII ) , ( c ) resolution 742 ( VIII ) , ( d ) Resolution 1514 ( XV ) . ( 2 ) the report specify in subsection ( 1 ) must be lay before both Houses of Parliament and , within two month of its publication , the Secretary of State must ensure that a substantive motion relate to the report be table , and move , in both the House of Commons and House of Lords . " new clause 9 — Marine Protected Area : Progress report — " ( 1 ) within twelve month of this Act receive Royal Assent , and every twelve month thereafter , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report on — ( a ) the progress make in establish ; and ( b ) manage a Marine Protected Area in the Chagos Archipelago . ( 2 ) the report require under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) a list of any meeting hold during the twelve - month period between the government of the United Kingdom and Mauritius in which the Marine Protected Area be discuss ; ( b ) a summary of the non - financial support and assistance provide by the Government of the United Kingdom in the establishment , and management , of a Marine Protected Area ; and ( c ) the cost incur by the United Kingdom , include any money pay by the Government of the United Kingdom to the Government of Mauritius , in connection with the establishment , and management , of a Marine Protected Area . ( 3 ) within two month of a report be lay before the House of Commons under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must table a substantive motion in the House of Commons on the content of the report . ( 4 ) within twelve month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must seek to undertake negotiation with the Government of Mauritius to secure additional guarantee of its commitment to the development and preservation of a Marine Protected Area . " this new clause require the Government to produce an annual report on progress in establish and manage , and to seek negotiation on secure further guarantee of Mauritius ' s commitment to , a Marine Protected Area in the Chagos Archipelago . new clause 10 — annual report : treaty implementation — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within twelve month of commencement and every twelve month thereafter , publish and lie before both Houses of Parliament a report on — ( a ) the expenditure of public fund make under the Treaty during the most recent financial year ; and ( b ) progress on the UK ' s implementation of the Treaty . " this new clause require the Government to publish an annual report on the expenditure of public fund make under the Treaty and on the progress of the UK ' s implementation of the Treaty . new clause 11 — Annual Parliamentary Oversight and Approval of Expenditure — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , once every financial year , lie before the House of Commons , for its approval , an estimate of the expenditure that be anticipate to be incur by the Government of the United Kingdom in connection with the commitment make under the term of the Treaty , include , but not limit to — ( a ) any payment make or to be make , or financial commitment enter into , with the Government of the Republic of Mauritius in accordance with the Treaty ; and ( b ) the cost associate with the continued administration , maintenance , and operation of Diego Garcia . ( 2 ) if the payment incur by the Government of the United Kingdom be great than those anticipate in the estimate specify in subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must lay before the House of Commons , for its approval , a supplementary estimate . " this new clause provide for an estimate and supply scrutiny process for expenditure to be incur by the UK Government as a result of the Treaty and the UK ' s continued involvement in Diego Garcia . new clause 12 — Review of the welfare and need of Chagossians reside in the UK — " ( 1 ) within a year of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must undertake , and publish the finding of , a review of the welfare , integration , and general need of Chagossians reside in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) in undertake the review specify in subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult representative of Chagossians reside in the UK , include community organisation . ( 3 ) within a month of publish the report specify in subsection ( 1 ) , the Government must make time available for a debate in both the House of Commons and the House of Lords on a substantive motion relate to the report . " this new clause require the government to undertake a review of welfare and integration of Chagossians in the UK within a year Act receive Royal Assent with a substantive motion relate to the report of the review table in both Houses of Parliament . new clause 13 — Impact of this Act and the Treaty on Chagossians reside in the United Kingdom — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , consult with — ( a ) chagossian person reside in the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) body represent , or work with , the chagossian community reside in the United Kingdom regard the impact of this Act and the Treaty on the chagossian community reside in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) the term of reference for the consultation specify in subsection ( 1 ) must include , but not be limit to the impact of this Act and the Treaty on — ( a ) the socio - economic status of Chagossians reside in the United Kingdom ; ( b ) the family life of the UK base chagossian community ; and ( c ) any implication for the chagossian community reside in the United Kingdom , of change to british nationality law . ( 3 ) within twelve month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay a report before Parliament summarising — ( a ) any finding from the consultation ; and ( b ) any step the Government intend to take as a result of those finding . " this new clause require the Government to consult the UK base chagossian community on the impact of the Act and the Treaty , and to publish the finding of the consultation . new clause 14 — duty to produce proposal for a referendum of Chagossians reside in the UK — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , lie before both Houses of Parliament proposal for an advisory referendum of Chagossians reside in the UK , seek their opinion on the Treaty sign with the Government of Mauritius and the provision of this Act . ( 2 ) within a month of publish the proposal specify in subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must make time available in both Houses of Parliament for a debate on a substantive motion relate to the proposal . " new clause 15 — Review of the operation of the Treaty — " ( 1 ) within five year of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must commence a review of the operation of the Treaty . ( 2 ) the review must include , but need not be limit to , an examination of whether it be in the UK ' s national security interest to continue be a signatory to , or to seek the termination of , the Treaty . ( 3 ) a report summarise the finding of the review must be publish and lay before both Houses of Parliament . " this amendment would require the Government to undertake , within five year of the Act receive Royal Assent , a review of the operation of the Treaty and publish its finding , include whether it be in the UK ' s national security interest to continue to be a signatory to the treaty . new clause 17 — access to the archipelago under the treaty — " in any discussion with the Government of Mauritius relate to the provision of Annex 1 ( 3 ) ( d ) of the Treaty , the Secretary of State shall not give consent to the presence of any indian or chinese security force , either civilian or military in nature , in the Chagos Archipelago . " this amendment would require the Government to withhold consent , in any discussion with Government of Mauritius hold under the provision of Annex 1 ( 3 ) ( d ) of the Treaty , to the presence of any indian or chinese civilian or military security force in the Chagos Archipelago . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Chairman , and to speak to the amendment that stand in my name and in the name of other right hon . and hon . member , as we open this Committee of the whole House to debate labour ' s Chagos surrender Bill . it have be more than a year since the surrender of the Chagos island be announce , with the Prime Minister , the then Foreign Secretary — now the Deputy Prime Minister — and the Attorney General wave the white flag of surrender and put the demand of their left - wing lawyer friend above the british national interest . since then , Labour have deny this House a vote on the whole treaty under the 21 - day process in the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , and have keep detail secret from we . over in Mauritius , the Prime Minister of that country have be brag about how he squeeze concession after concession after concession out of Labour . it be shameful that we have find out more about the treaty from debate in the Mauritius Parliament and statement by its politician than from Ministers accountable to this House . it have be five month since the Prime Minister of this country sign away £ 35 billion of british taxpayer ' money , stumble through a press conference rather than come to this House to face scrutiny and challenge . at a time of serious fiscal challenge for the public finance , Labour have impose a £ 35 billion surrender tax on our country — money that could fund public service here in Britain or support an easing of the tax burden . instead , it will be hand over to a foreign Government who be use this resource to cut taxis for their citizen . not only be it shameful , but Ministers have try to pull the wool over the eye of the british people by use accountancy methodology and valuation to try to show a far low cost . even then , it be an extraordinary figure of £ 3 . 4 billion . the Chancellor may struggle with number , but the british people do not . they can add up , and they see what the real cost of this be . on top of that , Ministers still can not tell we from which budget in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Ministry of Defence the money will come . be the simple truth not that this deal be cheap than what be propose by the Conservative party in government , and actually have more protection bake into it ? I think the hon . Gentleman need a little memory check , because we do not propose a deal . the british Chagossians , some of whom be watch from the Gallery — I pay tribute to they for their dignified and strong campaigning over many , many year — have be betray by Labour . their right have be ignore , as have their fear , lead to hundred flee Mauritius and come here . labour ' s surrender Bill , as present , do nothing for they . it do nothing for the marine protect area — one of the most important and large marine environment in the world — which have be protect while under british sovereignty and have become a centre for scientific research and development . that be at risk , and promise and aspiration announce by minister to ensure that it continue be not reflect in the Bill . shockingly , Labour ' s surrender Bill as draft do nothing to safeguard , defend and protect our national security . Labour be surrender british sovereignty and territory to a country that be increasingly align with China . the right hon . Lady describe this as a surrender Bill . can she please tell I which flag will be fly over the Chagos island if this be a so - call british surrender ? it will be a british flag that be fly . be that a point she understand ? there will be one flag that be fly , and that be the white flag of surrender . thousand of Mauritian public official be be train — or should that be " indoctrinate " ? — by China on course the Chinese be pay for . both Russia and China be sign partnership with Mauritius , but labour ' s surrender Bill fail to protect our interest . report today suggest that China and India be enter into negotiation to sign lease to island surround those on which british military operation will continue under the propose lease agreement . do she think that connection to China would be a risk and pose a threat to national security ? my hon . friend be 100 % right , and that be one of the reason why we oppose this Bill and have do so from the very start . the promise give by Ministers that nothing can happen in the Chagos archipelago that threaten our interest be already be undermine . Mauritius be in discussion with India about a security role that it can play in the archipelago , and the UK be not even in the room . if these discussion with a friendly country be take place without the UK , one can only wonder what discussion be take place in secret with China and Russia . there have be a report that China be already negotiate with Mauritius for Peros Banhos . when he speak , perhaps the Minister can tell we what he know about that . I want to say on that point that this be absolute nonsense . be the shadow Minister willing to provide any evidence that that be go to take place ? this treaty protect the security of the outer island and expressly prohibit foreign force build basis on they — something on which her government do not succeed in their negotiation . I be grateful to the Minister , but can he actually give I the reassurance that no discussion be take place ? perhaps he can answer that question when he respond to the debate later . the promise give by Ministers that nothing can happen in the Chagos archipelago that threaten our interest be already be undermine . if these discussion with a friendly country be take place without the UK , I can only wonder what discussion be take place in secret . if such discussion be take place , that would undermine the assurance Ministers have give to this House and be an act of bad faith on the part of Mauritius . the House know that this Government kowtow to the Chinese Communist party , lead it to threaten our interest here . now , they be fail to take seriously the warning about China , and the threat it pose to Diego Garcia , our military asset and our interest in the Indo - Pacific . my right hon . friend have highlight the Prime Minister misleading — perhaps I have to say inadvertently misleading — we about the cost of this , when the Government Actuary ' s Department have show that it be £ 35 billion . More than that , he be suggest in his press conference that China , Russia and other — order . the right hon . member may like to rethink his word about the Prime Minister . I bow to you , Ms Nokes . have misrepresent — I think I be allow to say that — no . oh , I can not say " misrepresented " . have inadvertently confuse the £ 35 billion that be actually go out with the £ 3 . 5 billion he claim be go out , the Prime Minister , equally inadvertently , Ms Nokes , make out that China , Iran and Russia be in the column — he use the word " column " — of those oppose this deal , although I think each and every one of they come out publicly to say how much they welcome it . can my right hon . friend share any knowledge about that with we ? I think my right hon . friend make some very interesting point , and perhaps not surprisingly , one might ask the question : be the Government sleep with the enemy here ? will the shadow Minister give way ? if the Minister will allow I , I will just finish this point . the key thing we be ask for be a reassurance from the Minister , and he will have more than ample opportunity later to respond to the point I be make . I thank the shadow Minister for give way , but she and the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) have raise China , Russia and Iran . why do she think that the United States , our close security ally , back this deal if there be any possibility of any of the fantasy thing she be suggest take place . they can not take place , because the treaty prevent they . she clearly have not read it . it can be very easy to back something when you do not have to pay for it , but let we move on . now , the Government be fail to take seriously the warning about China , and the threat it pose to Diego Garcia and our military asset and interest in the Indo - Pacific . labour ' s surrender Bill be bad for british taxpayer , bad for our national security , bad for the marine environment and bad for the Chagossians . it also grant Ministers huge power to make further decision and avoid parliamentary scrutiny . amendment 1 would in effect block labour ' s surrender treaty come into force and the dissolution of the British Indian Ocean Territory unless and until minister reveal the legal advice they have receive about Britain ' s ability to extend and exercise sovereign right over Diego Garcia after the initial 99 - year period . the Government constantly claim they have secure the military base , but they have totally fail to do that . all they have do be pay Mauritius £ 35 billion to lease back a base we currently own , but only for 99 year . we have no certainty whatsoever about the fate of the base after the 99 - year period . after pay Mauritius £ 35 billion , it would kindly give we the option to extend the treaty for another 40 year , but on what term ? if we extend it , will Mauritius make it conditional on more extortionate payment ? what if we be outbid by a hostile power ? in fact , what be to stop China put in a bid ? if no agreement be reach before the specify deadline and the base be offer to another country , what will happen to all the fix asset belong to Britain ? we have have no answer from the Government on any of these vital point , which be unacceptable , and the term of the treaty and the Bill , as they stand , be reckless . amendment 7 be necessary because the Government ' s legal justification for surrender the Chagos island constantly shift , because it have no legal basis . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) explain on Second Reading , the Government ' s entire legal case be spurious . many of we have be ask where the bind judgment we be constantly tell be inevitable would actually come from . no credible answer have be forthcoming . we know it can not be the International Court of Justice , and we know that a case at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea would see the UK able to put forward a decent legal argument . then the Government completely contradict their own argument about the electromagnetic spectrum . they be plan to dissolve a strategically invaluable british overseas territory , and they can not even tell we on what legal basis they be do so . it look as though this be part of a wide sinister picture — the Government ' s relationship with China . we know that the Government be desperate for chinese investment to help grow our economy , which they be trash with their reckless economic policy . the Deputy Prime Minister of Mauritius have credit China for its support in enable Mauritius to gain sovereignty over the Chagos island . why ? because China want to deepen its strategic partnership with Mauritius , which it believe to have strategic advantage . once again , the Prime Minister do not have the backbone to stand up for our strategic interest against China . amendment 7 would flush out the truth once and for all . take together , amendment 3 , 6 and 5 would delete a huge and unacceptable Henry VIII power that the Government be brazenly try to award themselves , and would give this House the oversight it be entitle to on the implementation of the treaty . it be wholly unacceptable — in fact , it be quite outrageous — for the Government to give themselves such a sweeping power that they could , through an order in Council , " make any provision that appear to his Majesty to be appropriate as a result of the Treaty " . this be a totally open - end power . the military base itself be in scope , and so be the right of Chagossians . the House should not be deprive of a voice on these matter of huge concern . our amendment would ensure that this House have a voice and a vote . that be totally right and proper . turn to our new clause , the Government could have insert a money authorisation clause into the Bill . they choose not to and no wonder . the Government want to spare their own disgruntle mps the ugly spectacle of have to vote in favour of spend ten of billion of their constituent ' money to Mauritius , as Britain ' s economy sink under the weight of the Chancellor ' s inflation , unemployment , debt and taxis . labour be ask the hard - press british taxpayer , already struggle under the weight of the Chancellor ' s punitive tax rise , to stump up £ 35 billion to lease back a territory we already own and which we be not legally oblige to give away . as it leave pensioner vulnerable and cold , destroy family farm and crush business , the Minister be content to send our constituent ' hard - earn money to Mauritius with no string attach , allow the Government there to cut taxis — tax cut over 6 , 000 mile away and tax rise at home . and Labour be inflict this surrender tax on the british people because of its abject failure to negotiate . we all know that when labour negotiate , Britain lose , but this be a new low . at seemingly every twist and turn , this Government have roll over and capitulate to the demand of the Government of Mauritius . the right hon . Lady mention that she do not believe there be a legal basis . what be the legal basis for the previous Government , when they conduct 11 round of negotiation and achieve absolutely nothing ? I be not sure where the hon . Gentleman have be for the past year and several month , but we have go over this time and again in this Chamber . there be no legal basis . we stop — [ interruption . ] maybe I will repeat this very slowly for his benefit : we stop the negotiation . I thank the shadow Minister for give way , but I must , Ms Nokes , correct the record here . this have be a repeat argument , by the shadow Minister and other , claim that the then Government stop the negotiation . they do not . in fact , they carry they on . there be a gov . uk statement on 24 February reflect the continuing of the negotiation by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) . indeed , they carry on into May , just before the election . it be there in writing on the previous Government ' s own website . we have make it very clear , repeatedly , at the Dispatch Box . Lord Cameron , the then Foreign Secretary , stop the negotiation . rise — I be go to make some more progress . my right hon . friend be do a very good job of forensically demolish the Government ' s case , such as it be . may I just correct what the Minister have say from the Dispatch Box ? there be a very great difference between carry on and discuss negotiation , and do a deal . as I be the Deputy Foreign Secretary under both my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) and my noble Friend Lord Cameron , I can tell the House that the then Government would never , ever have do this deal . secondly , I do hope my right hon . friend will probe the Minister far on where this extraordinary amount of money be come from . be it the defence budget or be it the development budget ? since the Labour party — a Labour Government — have slash development spending from — order . that be a very long intervention . perhaps the shadow Minister should take over . my right hon . and gallant Friend and constituency neighbour make some very , very important point . he add a certain weight and clarity to these discussion , and I urge Labour Members — certainly the new member — to listen to his wise counsel . the House of Commons should be give a vote on the payment and that be the purpose of this amendment . in scope will also be the chagossian trust fund , which , inexplicably , british taxpayer capitalise and Mauritius then distribute . we pay and Mauritius have total control over how it be spend . we will have no say over its governance and british Chagossians have no guarantee that they will benefit from it . how can that be right ? the least this House and british Chagossians deserve be a vote on send the money . what possible explanation could the Government provide against that ? the former Government set up a trust fund of £ 40 million for the Chagos islander . after four year , only £ 12 , 000 have be spend . that be how they treat Chagossians under the last government . the point , though , be where be this money come from ? this House have not have a vote . where be the transparency ? where be the democracy ? turn to new clause 2 and amendment 2 , as we have already discuss , the duration of the agreement be a matter of serious national security concern . there be too many unanswered question about what could happen to the base . we need to understand the basis on which the Government have settle that , especially as the then Foreign Secretary tell this House on 7 October 2024 that the Government would have a right to extend the lease , which we do not , and the Mauritian Government claim the UK give up a unilateral right of extension at their request . if that be true , it would be a scandal . no wonder we never get straight answer from Ministers . but then , it be also a scandal for Labour to sign the agreement with a previous Mauritian Government just before that country go into an election , only for there to be a change of Government who then want to change the deal and extract more money . extend the agreement be essential , because we simply can not lose the base . the House deserve to see the advice that the Government be rely on when they ask we to sign this £ 35 billion blank cheque . do my right hon . friend agree that under the Bill , if there be no agreement , although we can be first offer , Mauritius can decide simply to close and fold the base , leave it completely void , so there be no protection against that ? my hon . friend be 100 % right . this go to the heart of the Bill . there be so many unanswered question , which Conservative Members have be raise time and again . for example , how likely be we to be able to extend the base ? what will the structure of the negotiation be ? what condition could Mauritius impose , give that it will have our negotiator over a proverbial barrel ? how watertight be the first right of refusal ? will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will make a little more progress . what happen if the base be not secure ? will it need to be decommission ? how could we prevent an adversary inherit our fix asset ? what be the role of the United States in all this ? these be serious matter , and the House need serious answer . the purpose of the amendment be to secure those answer . in this House , there be often talk about million of pound for this and billion of pound for that . it be difficult sometimes to get in one ' s mind the scale of the money . last year , the Chancellor say that she be go to raise national insurance and low the threshold . we know how much damage that have do to the country , yet it be say at the time that it would raise £ 25 . 7 billion . that would not even pay for this deal . that be the amount of money they be go to give away today . my hon . friend make a really valid point by put that into context . there be only one thing that will result from the Government insist on push this through : tax rise . I reiterate my early point that we still do not know which budget the money be come from : FCDO or MOD . who be go to pay for it ? new clause 3 will give Parliament a vote over the agreement on the Chagos marine protect area . the Chagos MPA be one of the jewel in the crown of the Blue Belt programme , a magnificent achievement of the last Conservative Government and a globally significant contribution to marine protection . it should not be alter without consent . at present , we apply among the strict criterion to the Chagos MPA and it have be very well preserve , unlike much of the indian ocean , which have suffer terribly in recent year . will the right hon . Lady give way on that point ? I will make a little more progress . we be not talk about a small area . the British Indian Ocean Territory span 640 , 000 square kilometre of ocean . the Government ' s treaty with Mauritius compel the UK to help Mauritius to establish and manage a new MPA , but we be be ask to fly blind with this Bill , because no agreement have be reach on what the MPA manage by Mauritius will look like . the marine protection zone be agree by all party . it be a sustainable protection zone . there have never be any debate or dispute about it ; Mauritius have fully support it all along and guarantee its continuation . I do not understand why the shadow Minister be raise these matter . do she believe that Mauritius will not look after the area properly ? it seem to I that there be an attitude that be disrespectful of Mauritius and its determination to preserve the pristine nature of the ocean around the island . I have to disagree with the right hon . gentleman on many of those matter . we have raise question about this issue time and again , and we have simply not receive the answer from Ministers . this issue have be dispute . be it not the point that the United Nations convention on the law of the sea can not pass judgment on sovereignty because of the ruling that be make between Mauritius and the UK on marine protection back in 2015 ? that be under annexe VII , which be try and test . Britain be find want on that , because we have not properly talk through what should happen with the Mauritians . what the Mauritians actually want to do be to open it for fishing . how can we assure the protection for this area ? that be why we need to amend the Bill . my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be exactly why we have continue and will continue to probe the Government on the MPA . we have not have answer to our question ; we have not have the transparency that I think this House deserve . it be very possible — in fact , it be very likely — that Labour have commit Britain to help Mauritius dismantle an MPA that we ourselves establish . there be no assurance that we will not be commit british resource to actively harm our own interest and undo our work . Mauritius do not have the capability to manage , monitor or enforce an MPA . it do not have the infrastructure at sea or any such experience . it would leave the stock in those water expose to real risk of pillaging , include by chinese vessel . it be not likely to have the will to do so either , as we know the economic potential of the water be of interest to Mauritius . despite the Government ' s ludicrous and insulting claim that those who oppose this deal side with Russia and its friend , Mauritius have be develop close tie with Russia on marine matter , announce as recently as May 2025 that the two country be strengthen their tie on marine innovation , include marine research , while Mauritius ' s close relationship with China — a strategic partnership , no less — open up the possibility of chinese fishing trawler in these water . it be therefore absolutely right that this House get a say over the fate of the MPA , and the CRaG - equivalent process set out in our new clause would provide for an appropriate level of scrutiny . new clause 4 would require regular reporting on the ecological status of the Chagos MPA , which be necessary for the same reason as new clause 3 . the Government have bind we to support Mauritius to manage the MPA , so there must be scrutiny of what the Government be do and the ecological consequence . there be widespread concern across the House on the future of the MPA , and Ministers have so far fail to give any answer or any assurance ; when ask , they have say that they do not know about the future and can not tell we what resource and cost will be incur to meet these obligation . give our role in manage the MPA , the UK should be able to access the datum require for this report . this new clause reaffirm our commitment to the MPA . we recognise the sensitive nature of the military arrangement on Diego Garcia , but oversight of the agreement be none the less essential . new clause 5 would allow for appropriate parliamentary scrutiny while respect the need to protect critical information . the new clause cover the key area of security consideration and will act as a catalyst for the Government to maintain their own monitoring of each area . we believe that that be critical as there be hole in the provision . there must , for example , be agreement on upgrade infrastructure in the buffer zone , such as sensor — but what if there be no agreement ? likewise , the treaty stipulate that Mauritius and Britain must jointly decide on the management and use of the electromagnetic spectrum . of particular importance in new clause 5 be paragraph ( d ) and ( e ) . on ( d ) , we must ensure that only vessel that should be in the area be in the area , and that russian and potentially even chinese vessel be deter from enter — I have already mention the close tie and partnership between Mauritius and those country , which should concern all of we . with reference to paragraph ( e ) , the treaty state that the United Kingdom agree " to expeditiously inform Mauritius of any armed attack on a third state directly emanate from the base on Diego Garcia " . give the huge range of security threat in the Indo - Pacific and the middle east , it be far from impossible that in future this mechanism may need to be use . it be important that the notification be present to the Intelligence and Security Committee , as once again it would force the Government to log and monitor the mechanism , include any operational impact it might have . we know that there be genuine concern that third country — potentially even China — might try to establish themselves in the archipelago , and the arrangement in the treaty must be monitor to ensure that they be sufficiently robust to stop that happen . new clause 6 probe the Government ' s argument that a legally bind ruling under UNCLOS would have an impact on our ability to operate the electromagnetic spectrum , and impede air and sea access as well as the ability to patrol the area around the base . we take issue with that assertion , not least because there be an argument that provision under article 298 of UNCLOS allow for exemption relevant to dispute concern military activity . the Government have not address this issue when we have probe , include on Second Reading , so we have have no choice but to table this new clause to test the Government ' s assertion . I turn finally to new clause 7 . the british Chagossian community have be treat appallingly by this Labour Government . twice the deal have end up in the court because of the way Labour have ride roughshod over their concern . this Bill sell they short , too . the resettlement programme for the Chagos island under this treaty be entirely in the hand of Mauritius — a country to which , I should add , Chagossians feel little affinity . indeed , we have see many Chagossians arrive in the UK from Mauritius in recent week . I hope the Minister will respond to that from the Dispatch Box , because it be clearly concern that they have be move to take this action . the Bill also stop british overseas territory citizenship be award on the basis of descent from a person bear on the Chagos archipelago . sadly , we can not amend the treaty through the Bill ; it just be not within the parliamentary rule . however , new clause 7 would require the Government to consult the chagossian community on the implementation of the treaty — include on the establishment of the trust fund , which we capitalise and Mauritius distribute — and on area of dispute arise between the UK and Mauritian Governments prior to their being discuss at the joint committee create by the treaty . it also require the Foreign Secretary to present a report to Parliament within six month of the Act become law , and in every subsequent year , on how chagossian right be be uphold under this agreement . we have a national obligation and responsibility to the chagossian community , and the Conservatives will always stand up for their right . to conclude , take together , our amendment and new clause will hold the Government to account . let we be clear : the Conservatives oppose this surrender Bill , its colossal cost and the adverse impact on our defence and security . accept these amendment and new clause will simply strengthen accountability and transparency . I have set out the security and geopolitical importance of the treaty many time in this place , and would therefore have appreciate the opportunity today to engage with detailed scrutiny of the treaty and the defence arrangement it enable . sadly , that be not the line that the opposition be go down . instead , we be face with a series of wreck amendment that do not attempt to improve the Bill in any way . they be design to force the Government to let our ally down , undermine our international credibility and reputation , and create great geopolitical risk and legal and security risk to our base on Diego Garcia . if opposition amendment be pass today , it would be impossible for we to meet our commitment in a timely way by implement the agreement with Mauritius that Ministers have complete — an agreement that the Conservative Government start and carry through 11 round of negotiation but now want to throw back , no matter the damage that it would do to our nation . at no point have they make clear the legal basis for start the 11 round of negotiation in the first instance . I fully understand and sympathise with the motivation behind amendment 9 . the creation of the Chagos island as a separate territory create a deep injustice , because it be bind up in the dispossession of the Chagossians , but that historical injustice can not simply be undo . we can not turn back the clock , however much we might want to do so . the question of a right to return be not remotely simple , because access to Diego Garcia be inevitably a serious question of security . People obviously can not return to exactly where their family live , because of the highly sensitive military facility that now stand in their place . perhaps a limited right of return could be negotiate , but that would engage security procedure that be secret and involve the UK and the US as well as Mauritius , as be acknowledge by the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) . the amendment imago that if the negotiation be reject by even the narrow of margin , the entire treaty would fall apart and would need to be renegotiate afresh , significantly increase geopolitical risk to the base and our interest . perhaps the Minister could invite some assistance on this point from those who conduct the first 11 round of negotiation . let we get real : there be reason why international treaty be negotiate by the government and subject to democratic scrutiny in this House and through these procedure . what the Liberal Democrats be propose amount to make a UK foreign and defence policy dependent on a referendum , and that include vital defence interest that be share with the US and other ally . that referendum would apparently comprise non - uk citizen just as much as it would british Chagossians . frankly , I would have think that the Liberal Democrats more than other would have learn from the disastrous experience of Brexit that make foreign policy by referendum be not the wise course of action . rise — there be already a barrage of misinformation come from the opposition , and I be not go to invite any more of it to flow across the Floor . there be a multiplicity of bad actor internationally who would benefit from the collapse of this Bill — and just imagine how many more there would be if we take the course the opposition urge we to take . the hon . Member just say that foreign policy should not be make by referendum . do he disagree , then , with article 1 ( 2 ) of the UN charter — that the right to self - determination be a core principle in international relation and that we should therefore have a referendum for Chagos ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . the Bill have be before the House already , and at the moment we be discuss the amendment that have be table . the hon . Member will soon have the opportunity to discuss the amendment he have table . however , abdicate this Chamber ' s decision — [ interruption . ] order . there be far too much noise and many private conversation , which make it very difficult to hear the hon . Gentleman . abdicate this House ' s responsibility to a referendum be not something on which we will agree . this treaty be a vital step to secure UK interest . it put the Diego Garcia base on a secure footing for at least 100 year . I understand that opposition colleague have a range of objection to this treaty , not all of which be jaw - droppingly hypocritical , however — Order . I will give the hon . Gentleman the same warning that I give the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) . he need to be very careful with his language . not all the objection be jaw - droppingly confused , but some colleague will vote against the Bill tonight on the basis of they . that be no reason to support an amendment that would undermine the Government ' s ability to navigate the difficult and chaotic world we live in today and keep our country safe . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I will speak in support of seven amendment table in my name . for too long , decision about the Chagos island have be make without the consent of Chagossians . my grave concern be that the treaty to be give effect by the Bill fail to rectify that historical and ongoing injustice . not only do it fail to provide adequate protection of their right , it fail to establish a legally bind right to return or a bind programme of resettlement of the island for Chagossians . turn to amendment 9 , we recognise and support the importance of abide by international law and believe that the UK be indeed right to open a process of negotiation with Mauritius — especially so give the risk that a judgment against the UK in any court could threaten our sovereignty over and security interest in Diego Garcia and the wide Chagos archipelago . however , the treaty that have emerge not only fall short in address past injustice , but introduce new injustice of its own . at the very core of the United Nations charter — a document that this country help to shape — lie the right of all people to self - determination . article 1 ( 2 ) could not be clear : one of the purpose of the United Nations be to " develop friendly relation among nation base on respect for the principle of equal right and self - determination of people " . yet for the chagossian people that right have be deny for more than half a century . they be exile from their homeland in the Chagos archipelago , scatter across the globe , and leave without the mean or permission to return . it be , and remain , a moral stain on our modern history . I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman about the lack of morality in how the chagossian people be treat — he be correct on that . would he accept that there be something fundamentally wrong in 1965 in separate Diego Garcia and the archipelago from Mauritius when the whole area have always be administer from Mauritius as part of Mauritius , and that under decolonisation statute they should have be include in the independence of Mauritius at that time ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . I be aware that he have a long history in advocate for this particular cause , but I be relentlessly surprise by the position he take on this point . he would seek to effectively reinscribe the colonial construction that be British Mauritius and in do so ignore the right of Chagossians as a people to self - determine their own future . I do not see the colonial convenience of administration as anything other than overwrite a people ' s right to determine their own future . on that point , in 2019 the International Court of Justice issue an advisory opinion that conclude that the decolonisation of Mauritius have not be legally complete and that the United Kingdom should end its administration of the Chagos island as rapidly as possible . the General Assembly subsequently endorse that same view . but I say to this House that the ICJ opinion , however well intentione , pose a profound problem . it propose to hand sovereignty not to the Chagossians themselves but to Mauritius , without consult those who be bear of the island or who be descend from they . that be not self - determination but the transfer of sovereignty over a people without their consent . the right to self - determination belong to people , not to government . it be not and should not be a device for tidy up the diplomatic ledger of empire , but a recognition that every community have the right to shape its own future . to remove the Chagossians once be a horrific wrong . to barter away their sovereignty now without their voice compound that wrong . if we truly honour the UN charter and the principle that this country have long champion , the Chagossians themselves must be place at the centre of any future settlement . they must have a say over their citizenship , over the governance of their island and over the prospect of return . the commitment to a referendum that sit at the heart of amendment 9 seek to address that long and burn injustice by provide Chagossians with the opportunity to exercise their right to determine their own future . I entirely agree with my hon . friend on the importance of have a right of referendum . I have have chagossian constituent contact I with their outrage about the compounding of injustice in the new treaty . how realistic do my hon . friend think it be to find people eligible to vote in a potential referendum , give the length of time that have pass since they be move from Diego Garcia ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . he be right that , be a referendum able to be secure , it would be unusual because of the nature of the displacement of the Chagossians . but there have be previous international consultation , and with the collective will and intelligence of a House like this , the term of a referendum could undoubtedly be negotiate . after all , Chagossians be not backwards in come forwards and make themselves know to all of we . for Chagossians , this be not a geopolitical abstraction , but a deeply human matter : one of belong , fairness and justice . require a report to be make to the House would ensure their voice be not lose amid the technical language of treaty and transfer . amendment 9 would enable transparency , accountability and , above all , genuine recognition of the right of Chagossians to self - determination . I encourage right hon . and hon . member across the House to think carefully when they vote tonight . new clause 9 speak to another vital principle : our shared moral duty to protect the natural world . the Chagos archipelago be among the most biodiverse marine environment on Earth . its coral reef , migratory specie and rich ecosystem be a global ecological treasure and a testament to what nature can be when leave largely untouched by human exploitation . in recent month , I have speak with scientific adviser who be deeply concerned about the Bill ' s lack of provision for establish and govern marine protect area . the environment and sustainability institute stress that very large marine protect area be vital for global conservation goal . its research show the archipelago ' s exceptional role in protect diverse mobile specie across the indian ocean . new clause 9 would require the Government to publish an annual report produce with the Mauritian Government set out the progress make in establish and manage marine protect area and the meeting hold between the two government on the issue . such reporting be critical to ensure that environmental protection do not fade into the sotto voce diplomatic arrangement . it must remain a visible , audible and measurable commitment to international conservation standard . if the Government be to honour their biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction pledge , future government must ensure strong marine conservation , sustainable stewardship and share responsibility . I believe that the new clause would achieve that . new clause 10 and 11 would build on the principle of accountability by ensure regular oversight of how the Bill and its associate treaty arrangement be implement . we believe that the Secretary of State should , within 12 month , lie before both Houses a report detail the expenditure of public fund make under the treaty during the most recent financial year and the progress make by the UK in implement the treaty ' s obligation . at a time when the cost of living be so high , do my hon . friend agree that the cost of maintain and operate the Diego Garcia military base and military operation must be evaluate by the House against the expenditure of public fund make under the treaty each financial year ? the maximum possible financial transparency around the treaty arrangement be essential , not least for securing and establish public trust . I fear that , without those high level of accountability , public trust would rapidly dissipate . furthermore , once every financial year , the Secretary of State should present to the House an estimate of the expenditure expect to be incur in connection with the treaty , include payment or financial commitment to the Government of Mauritius and the cost of maintain and operate Diego Garcia . if actual payment exceed those estimate , a supplementary estimate must be lay before the House for approval and parliamentary scrutiny . I reassure conservative colleague that the liberal Democrats will support any amendment to the Bill that would increase financial transparency of the treaty . however , our moral duty extend beyond matter of territory and finance . new clause 12 would require a comprehensive review of the welfare , integration and general need of Chagossians live in the UK . many Chagossians here face significant challenge , include housing insecurity , barrier to employment and limited access to public service . the review would assess what support be need and ensure a full debate in this House and the other place on its finding . that be how we show genuine care for those displace by the action of our predecessor in the Chamber and in Whitehall . finally , new clause 13 would require the Government within six month to consult with Chagossians reside in the UK and the organisation that represent they on how the Act and the treaty affect their community socially , economically and legally . the hon . Gentleman be give a powerful speech on the Chagossians and marine protect area , as well as the need for transparency . but it be not just about transparency . what I have not hear from he , on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , be any sense of outrage at the very fact that we be to pay out £ 35 billion for sovereign british territory on which we have arguably the most important base in the whole indian ocean . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question . it be precisely in order to cast the strong possible spotlight on the financial transaction involve that we be ask for financial accountability to be magnify . on his geopolitical point , nobody can question the significant geopolitical importance of the base — it be vital to our national security and to global security . it be essential that it be maintain in british hand , but that must be achieve with the consent of the Chagossians . the result report to be lay before Parliament within 12 month would allow we to evaluate whether the Government ' s legislative intent have translate into justice and inclusion in the life of those who be most directly affect . these amendment would address critical shortcoming with the Bill . they would embed accountability , environmental protection and a commitment to the right to self - determination within its framework for implementation . I urge Ministers to ensure that the Chagossians be not treat as diplomatic collateral in any future discussion with Mauritius . they be not a footnote to be manage between state ; they be a people deserve of justice , agency and dignity . the Chagossians have wait more than 50 year to go home . the least we can do now be let they decide freely and finally what home mean for themselves and ensure that they have the tool they need to exercise their right . the amendment table in my name seek to afford those protection and ensure that those right be respect . I be delighted to be call so early . I will speak to the amendment in the name of the official Opposition , specifically on the report go to the Intelligence and Security Committee , especially on security of the buffer zone , foreign security force , military operation and personnel movement . the ceding of Diego Garcia be a monumental strategic error that will diminish the UK ' s stand on the world stage , and I will gladly set out why I believe that be the case . if anybody think they can predict what will happen in the next five year , they have learn nothing from the last five year . when we start extend that to 10 - plus year in the current global geopolitical situation , that be so hard to look at . everybody be play by a set of rule and work to a past system , which be currently change . strategic leadership be the ability to shape the environment we be in . let we take two strategic leader , regardless of our view of they at the moment : President Trump and Xi Jinping . they both want the world to change from where it be , and they want to adjust the shape of what it look like . the world be currently see a disruption to the world order as we know it . the international rule - base order be be challenge . we be set out a deal and a treaty base on an old system that we be ask to believe will be honour for the next 99 year , but I do not believe it will be . China , Russia , Iran and North Korea all have a massive interest in and around the Indo - Pacific . we talk about Russia look at Ukraine , but only 25 % of Russia be in that space ; 75 % of Russia be in the Indo - Pacific . Russia be now provide training service to the chinese military in airborne operation . North Korea be on the battlefield in Ukraine at the moment . we be see all the CRINK nation , as they be know , come together , not adhere to the international rule - base order and not work as we would expect they to do . the Indo - Pacific area — I be recently there with Pacific Command — at 100 million square mile , be vast . there be 76 , 000 US Marines in the Indo - Pacific alone . that be phenomenal ; it be big than our Army . half the world ' s population sit in this space . at Pacific Command , we can see the clock show Diego Garcia ' s time zone and all the multiple other time zone between there and the US . anyone who believe that China will honour its deal as we expect should look at the rare earth metal and critical mineral it be supply , because 90 % of some of those rare earth metal be process in or by China . the average car contain $ 200 - worth of rare earth metal , as I learn when I be on the Defence Committee and we visit Australia to look at this , but I be more interested in how much be in an F - 35 — it contain about 450 kg , give or take , of rare earth metal , many of which have a limited supply . all of this give China huge leverage over the country that need they . we be see a polarisation in the Indo - Pacific . the Philippines be now look at host a permanent US base , and the same be true in northern Australia . thing that would never have be believe four or five year ago be happen now . I be proud to have serve in the UK ' s armed force , and I believe the British Army be the most professional in the world , but it be a shadow of its former self . I believe it be get hard for the UK armed force to stand on the world stage because of the depletion of the military . everyone will say that it be be hollow out for 14 year , but a great book , just out , " the rise and fall of the British Army , 1975 – 2025 " by Brigadier Ben Barry , show that the UK armed force have be in decline since 1981 . when we look at the UK armed force ' decline , and then we start look at cede our sovereign basis , that bring we to the table ; that bring we to a foothold . without they , we would not have the capability to stand in the Indo - Pacific and support our ally . a report release in the last two week by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , to which I contribute , talk about the Indo - Pacific and the Euro - Atlantic . they be intrinsically link . it be not a question of go to one space and leave the other for the Americans . the rise of China and its defence industrial base be phenomenal , and the speed at which it be grow be huge . there be so many concern and uncertainty at the moment . key strategic location include Cyprus , Hawaii , Svalbard , the Ascension Islands , and Diego Garcia and the Chagos island . I just want to re - emphasise the point that my hon . friend be make about the growth of the threat . be he aware that China today have 130 time the capability to build naval ship that America do ? one shipyard in China in this last year have build more naval ship than the whole of the United States . we talk about the threat to the South China sea . it be do . my right hon . friend make a great point . I speak to one of the submarine commander from the US navy only about six week ago . he tell I that 15 year ago he would see one chinese ship or submarine per week , and now he see 100 a week . the whole area be full of they . when we start look at the security of buffer zone , we see that we can not move in this area for chinese submarine . the whole space be swamp with they . we be do a deal that will remove our ability to sit at the table where we use to have such strength . our armed force now would have trouble support our ally in any area , particularly the Indo - Pacific — [ interruption . ] the Minister for Defence Readiness and Industry say that be not true . we have HMS Spey and the carrier strike group , but we have no permanent presence in the Indo - Pacific . with our current commitment , we would need a brigade strength or more to enable we to have a permanent base , to rotate troop through and to have a credible offering without burn out the UK armed force , give the number who be currently on sick at the moment and the strength of the military . I want to see large armed force , but we do not have the ability to offer the level that we want . we believe that the world be play by an international rule - base order , but not all country will do that . an international rule - base order be a set of rule set out by , normally , the large country around the world . when country such as Iraq or Kosovo do not adhere to they , they expect everyone else to accept it , but the rise of China , Russia , Iran and North Korea be throw everything into the mix . I believe that this will be a huge loss for we strategically . I reiterate my point that the ceding of Diego Garcia be a monumental strategic error that , in the next decade , we will come to regret . I call the Father of the House . I commend my hon . friend the Member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) , who have speak with great authority about the military threat . I also commend the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) . I agree with everything he say ; he speak with great good sense and moderation . I wish to speak to my new clause 14 — I be grateful to my friend who have sign it — which state : " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , lie before both Houses of Parliament proposal for an advisory referendum of Chagossians reside in the UK , seek their opinion on the Treaty sign with the Government of Mauritius and the provision of this Act . ( 2 ) within a month of publish the proposal specify in subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must make time available in both Houses of Parliament for a debate on a substantive motion relate to the proposal . " an advisory referendum would be a moderate and sensible proposal , and I be not sure why anybody would disagree with it . surely we in this House have a moral duty to the chagossian people , not to bureaucratic convenience or diplomatic horse trading . my new clause simply call for the Chagossians to be consult on their own future . that be not unreasonable . it be a modest and entirely proper request . after decade of exile and neglect , it be indefensible to negotiate their homeland ' s fate without even ask they . have we ever hand over a people to a foreign power without even consult they ? proponent of pay Mauritius to take the island cite international law , but the entire point of decolonisation be to assert the self - determination of people . the United Nations be found upon the principle that nation and people should be free to determine their own destiny in a peaceful way . chagossian , as we now all agree , be wrong by both the British and the Mauritian authority . by the way , I be probably the only person sit in this Chamber who have actually be to the island — [ interruption . ] I be sorry ; I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) . I go there with the Defence Committee 40 year ago . we kick those people out of their home , albeit for perfectly the legitimate reason of promote the stability and security of the free world , and Mauritius accept money to help look after displace chagossian . no one can dispute the fact that chagossian be treat as have second - class status in Mauritius . chagossian who have be live there be flee in increase number to the United Kingdom . many of they happily assert that they want the sovereignty of the United Kingdom to continue over the British Indian Ocean Territory , but they also want a right to return . right the wrong we have commit mean listen to the Chagossians directly , and that be all I be ask for . the amendment would give Parliament the chance to ensure that justice be finally do for those who suffer most . Britain should not repeat the sin of dispossession under the guise of decolonisation . I repeat , Britain should not repeat the sin of dispossession under the guise of decolonisation . to hand the territory to Mauritius would not " end empire " , but merely pass the island from one remote capital to another ; from one imperial power to another . the United Kingdom must not compound historic injustice by ignore the only people with a legitimate moral claim to these island . the Chagos island be of course a linchpin of regional security for Britain , the United States and our ally in an increasingly contest Indo - Pacific . undermine that strategic position would embolden hostile power and weaken our ability to uphold freedom of navigation . those who call this a colonial relic misunderstand it . it be a forward defence post , not a backward - look possession . as have be say time and again , the International Court of Justice ' s advisory opinion carry no legal bind force and should not dictate british policy . allow unelected judge in the Hague to override Parliament ' s responsibility be an abdication of national sovereignty . the Government should resist any creep judicial globalism that seek to erode british self - government under the cloak of " international law . " I will end on this point , and I believe it be a very powerful point : consultation with the Chagossians through a UK referendum be an act of basic democratic respect , not a legal technicality . my new clause would strengthen rather than weaken Britain ' s moral standing by show that we act with fairness and consent . we should not wash our hand of responsibility for british subject in favour of imagine diplomatic convenience . the right course be to combine justice for the Chagossians with the preservation of Britain ' s strategic obligation , not to sacrifice one for the other . Parliament should back these new clause and amendment as an affirmation that Britain remain a nation that keep faith with its people and its ally alike . before I speak to amendment 10 , which stand in my name on the amendment paper , I have a quick reminder : the International Court of Justice make an " advisory " judgment — it have no force in law . quite why the previous Government seek to enter 11 round of negotiation off the back of it be beyond I , but it be even more extraordinary for a Government that be full to the rafter with human right lawyer . they believe in human right so much that somehow they be seek to follow a court that be part of the United Nations in total contrast , as the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) point out , to one of the most basic principle of the United Nations : namely , national self - determination . we think it matter so much 40 year ago that we send a taskforce 8 , 000 mile away to defend the right of the people of the Falkland Islands . I feel great sympathy for the Chagossians . they get a rotten deal 50 year ago , and in many way they be perhaps get an even bad deal now . they should be consult . the fact they be not be consult be shameful for a Government who go on endlessly about human right and the international rule of law . that be the human cost of this . as to the economic cost , well , lot of sum have be bandy about , from £ 3 . 4 billion from the Prime Minister to £ 35 billion , but it all depend on the rate of inflation . if the average rate of inflation over the next 100 year be 3 % , it will be over £ 50 billion , but that may be as nothing to the opportunity loss here . this marine park should have be turn decade ago into the great marine tourism site in the world . the hon . member will be aware that his friend President Trump be in favour of this deal , so would he tell we whether he disagree with he ? I certainly will , and I will come to that in short order . the opportunity for marine tourism be massive ; it be worth billion of pound a year , and it would provide a lot of job for Chagossians . on top of that — perhaps more controversially — I have little doubt , have speak to some geologist who work for the world ' s big mining company , that within those water we would find cobalt and many of the mineral need for the very green revolution that this Government say that they be in favour of , so economically we be not just pay £ 50 billion or whatever the number be ; we be lose out on a huge future opportunity . as be mention by the hon . member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) , strategically this be a disaster . right at the moment , the american President be somewhat busy , have recently strike a remarkable peace deal in the middle east , and — whichever way people think he be go on it — be obsess with end the Ukraine war . this issue be very low down on his agenda , but he and America will wake up and realise that something they think now to be minor and not worth spend their time on actually will imperil the safety of their base . India have already negotiate a satellite observation deal , and China be currently negotiate . it do not matter what the Minister say about what be in the treaty ; Mauritius will not honour the term of this treaty . Mauritius be poor . it be on the verge of bankruptcy . it will be buy by chinese money , and China be negotiate lease already . if you want further proof of what will upset the american President , Huawei , which of course he rail against get into the UK ' s 5 g system , be already instal its " safe city " camera all over Mauritius . none of this make any sense . I do wonder what the role of our National Security Adviser , Jonathan Powell , be in all of this . I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman have the gall to come here and talk about national security today , when the former leader of his party in Wales admit to take bribe from Russia , and when again he have be use talking point that come right from the Kremlin in blame NATO for Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine — absolutely shameful . the Mauritian Attorney General be interview on Mauritian tv today , and he say regard the hon . Gentleman ' s tweet claim that Mauritius be negotiate a lease on Peros Banhos that that be a gross falsehood and a political gimmick . the hon . Gentleman talk about the United States . the Secretary of War , Secretary Hegseth , say : " Diego Garcia be a vital military base for the United States . the UK ' s … deal with Mauritius secure the operational capability of the base and key US national security interest in the region . we be confident the base be protect for many year ahead . " why be the United States back this deal , if anything that the hon . Gentleman say be true ? I can assure you that America be not back this deal . what it be say be , " what we have be what we hold . " that be the american attitude at the moment , but as I say , when it wake up to the satellite observation deal do with India already , as report in the Economic Times of India on 12 September this year , and once you realise — Order . when the hon . Gentleman say " you " , he be refer to I . perhaps he would refer to the Minister as " the Minister " . when the Americans realise that , actually , Mauritius be not a trustworthy nation — it be bankrupt ; it need the money ; it will not honour this treaty — we will be in a very different place . I do ask the question about the role of our National Security Adviser , somebody very much in the news in the last few day . he be seemingly very happy that a trial against two allege chinese spy , operate at time within this building , have disappear . not only be he honour the labour manifesto , which be very soft on China , but apparently he be very for this Chagos deal . I put it to Members that this deal be un - British , it be against our national interest , and there be no upside or gain . I can assure they that a future that a future Reform Government will not honour this treaty — end of . I refer the Committee to my interest , have observe the mauritian election last year as a guest of the Mauritius Labour party . it be hard not to feel a little bit sorry for the beleaguered Minister at the Dispatch Box today , send to defend something that be so clearly a betrayal of this country and its interest . out of the grand total of 400 - plus Labour Members of Parliament in this House , he be back by just one — the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) — who sit with his face glue to his iPad , read the word put there by Lord know who , and who struggle so much when he finally take an intervention and have to speak off the cuff . indeed , he have flee now , doubtless to lick his wound . not one single other of those 400 Government mp want to come here and defend this Bill . the Minister be in fact a decent man , and he will know that this Bill have no defence and bring no benefit to this country . last week , too , we have a Minister send out to answer for the China spy case . he have never speak at the Dispatch Box before ; it be his very first outing , but he be think the good person to defend the Prime Minister ' s blush by know nothing about the topic in hand and deny thing — without lie — by dint of ignorance . it be indeed a triumph , of sort . Armando Iannucci and " the Thick of it " cast could not script something as cynical , empty and damaging as this Government ' s behaviour in so many sphere . as we can see in the amendment and new clause before we , which will doubtless all be reject by the Minister , amidst the betrayal of first - time buyer , farmer , small business , special need child , pensioner , young worker — order . perhaps the right hon . Gentleman might stay within the scope of the Bill . thank you , Madam Chair . I be set the context for the amendment to the Bill that we be rightly propose to ensure that the Government report back on the money that they plan to spend and to ensure that the Mauritius taxpayer be not the only taxpayer to benefit from this . as I say , the amendment and new clause come amidst the betrayal of those first - time buyer , farmer , small business , special need child , pensioner , young worker , restaurant and pub , and amidst the expense grifting , tax dodging , scandal and resignation pack into 14 busy month . amidst all that , this Chagos sell - out be still a stand - out disaster for this country , and the Ministers on the Front Bench know it . that be why not a single one of their 400 - odd colleague — bar one , glue to his iPad — have be prepare to come to this Chamber tonight and speak in favour of the Bill . that be why there be no provision to allow a vote on the £ 3 . 4 billion — sorry , not £ 3 . 4 billion ; the £ 35 billion that have now be set out . as the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) rightly say , that be base on a rather small c conservative estimate of the interest , but that be what the Government themselves have say it be likely to cost . this Labour Government decide to give away UK sovereign territory and the location of a critically important military base to another country , and to pay £ 35 billion for the privilege . on the argument about the money , which come up throughout all this and which we have in the last debate , the Government have use a dodgy system to calculate it . it be call the GDP deflator . their own actuarial department have dismiss that completely because , of course , it be all about a forecast of where social issue will go on an island that will never have anything to do with we after all this , so we have no idea how to predict it . finally , clause 5 make this whole debate meaningless , because the Government can change anything they like whenever they wish to , so what the heck be we do debate this even now ? my right hon . friend make an extremely powerful point . the Henry VIII power in the Bill be not limit at all . I hear so many complaint when I be a Minister from the Labour party about Henry VIII power . the Bill literally give Ministers the ability to change any exist piece of legislation in any sphere whatsoever if it be necessary to implement this deal . there can never have be a Henry VIII power as powerful as that give to Ministers by this legislation , which be all to do with the surrender of Chagos and the transfer of ten of billion of pound to a foreign power — a foreign power that be in a strategic partnership with China and in close working with other country that be not on our side . what on earth be the Prime Minister think ? as the Minister lie in bed last night toss and turn in anticipation of the debate , I be sure that that be the question that go round and round in his head . so many question remain to be answer . why do the Prime Minister say that the payment would be £ 3 . 4 billion when the Government ' s own office now show that it will be at least £ 35 billion ? be this the most important strategic base in the indian ocean ? can the Minister confirm that Diego Garcia be effectively a US base , man by thousand of Americans , with at most a few dozen brit there in liaison ? if this be in fact a United States base and not operationally — it be a joint base . it might be a joint base technically , but what be it in reality ? I would love an intervention from the Defence Minister ; he could tell we . how much do we use it operationally , because there be thousand of Americans there and , as I understand it — unless he correct I — at most dozen of Brits . in other word , it be a United States base on sovereign UK territory that we will pay ten of billion of pound for over the next 100 year to provide it to the Americans for free . it make no sense , and I do not see why we have have no answer from Ministers as to why that be a sensible use of public money . rise — rise — I will give way to the Minister and then to my right hon . friend . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his generous comment . he and I have always have robust but friendly discussion on many issue . however , I do have to correct he on this point . the US pay for the operation , and the value to the british taxpayer , the US taxpayer and , indeed , all our ally be priceless in that it protect the people of this country from multiple threat , so what he say simply do not make sense . the United States play a critical role as a member of NATO and as a key ally — if not the key ally — of our , but despite the priceless nature of the service it provide , we do not typically pay for it . we do not normally pay for its basis ; we pay for our own . will the right hon . member give way ? I say I would give way to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . my right hon . friend be quite right . on the face of it , this do not make sense , unless we look at it in one particular way . if the Government have make a decision that they wish to have a strategic economic partnership with communist China , this make sense , the closing of the case with the China spy make sense , and the willingness for China to have the big embassy of any country in Europe make sense . even though the Government say that that be a quasi - judicial decision , it be interesting that for political reason , they put it off till December . none of it make sense , or all of it make sense , as long as the National Security Adviser want we to suck up to communist , totalitarian China . my right hon . friend make a powerful point . that be at the heart of it . there be so many question but one question be : why ? why would a deal like this be do by the Government ? he put forward a credible case as to why it might be . will the right hon . member give way ? perhaps the hon . Gentleman , who be not brave enough to speak fully but be prepared to intervene , can tell we why he would like to vote , if only he be give the chance , to give £ 35 billion to Mauritius and hand over a sovereign british base to someone in strategic partnership with China . perhaps the right hon . Gentleman can enlighten I on which of the amendment he be speak to . new clause 4 , which his party table , mention coral , fish stock , mollusc and ocean acidification in the marine protect area . even the cynic in I be somewhat flabbergast by the official Opposition ' s apparent interest in environmental and climate change all of a sudden , give their desire to ride roughshod over the Climate Change Act and frack our countryside . that be rather desperate . I give way to the right hon . member for East Antrim . the Minister describe this asset as " priceless " , yet he be give it away — and not only be he give it away ; he be pay someone to take it ! be this the kind of decision people would expect from a rational government ? more importantly , if it be priceless in security term , why be we compromise it ? the right hon . Gentleman be quite right to ask that question . that be what we be try to get to the bottom of , and we hope to hear answer from the Minister this evening so that ordinary citizen of this country can understand how it be in the UK ' s interest to do this . of course , other point have be touch on , include , quite rightly , the Chagossians . why be the Labour party — the party so committed to human right and which very much see itself as champion for the underdog — absolutely disregard the Chagossians ? as the hon . member for Bolton West suggest , Labour also set itself out as a nature and climate champion , yet it be hand this asset over to a country without the wherewithal — I do not know about the will , but it be certainly without the wherewithal — to ensure that the protection of that marine area continue . that be the problem , and it be why we need answer from the Minister . the Government may be unable to get anyone to speak in favour of the Bill , but they should think again , accept the amendment and new clause , and bring some light to bear on this rather murky issue . the treaty that the Bill will implement be shocking for so many reason : the security implication , the staggering cost , and the voice that it have ignore — the voice of british Chagossians . their view and concern be many and varied . I have the privilege of meet member of the community when they come to Parliament , while the former Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , meet british Chagossians only once , and that be on the very day that the treaty be sign — far too late for their voice to have any influence . they be rightly frustrated that they have be exclude from negotiation and deny meaningful engagement . it be painfully clear that their voice be not consider ; if they have be , the treaty might have place their right at its very centre . instead , article 6 give Mauritius the freedom to resettle Chagossians , but not the duty to do so . after half a century of wait for it , their right of return be leave entirely at the discretion of a foreign government . under article 11 , despite the billion of pound that the Bill will transfer to Mauritius , only a fraction — in the form of a trust fund — be intend for Chagossians . even then , it will be administer solely by Mauritius , with no guarantee that british Chagossians will have any say in how it be spend . the treaty say that the UK and Mauritius want to " recognise the wrong of the past " , but how can we recognise a wrong if we refuse to listen to those who suffer it ? new clause 7 , table by the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , be vital because it would require the Government to listen to and consult the chagossian community here in the UK , and to report back on how their right be be uphold . that would give british Chagossians the voice that they have be deny again and again . another vital issue be the risk that the Bill pose to one of the most precious marine environment on earth . the water around the Chagos Islands form one of the world ' s large and most pristine marine protect area . as we have hear , it be a haven of biodiversity , untouched by industrial fishing since 2010 . yet the treaty place that fragile ecosystem in jeopardy . Mauritius have promise to establish a new marine protect area , but it lack the capacity to enforce it . it have no navy , and its coastguard of nine vessel be already stretch by patrolling water thousand of mile away . by contrast , the UK have spend over £ 1 . 2 million since 2022 on monitor and protect those sea , develop world - lead expertise in remote enforcement through ship , sensor and satellite imagery . illegal fishing be already rife across the indian ocean . China ' s distant - water fleet be the large in the world and the bad global offender for illegal fishing , accord to the illegal , unreported and unregulated fishing index . what confidence can we have that Mauritius — a close ally of China — will be able or willing to resist such pressure and protect these fragile water ? be my hon . friend aware that Mauritius do not have a navy ? my hon . friend make an important point . it have no navy and only nine coastguard vessel ; it be not able to protect those water . even if illegal fishing be control , the Mauritian Fisheries Minister have already speak of want to issue fishing licence around the Chagos Islands . the agreement provide no guarantee ; the extent of future protection will be decide only after the Bill have pass . new clause 3 and 4 be essential to ensure parliamentary oversight of any future agreement and regular reporting on coral health , fish stock and biodiversity . as it stand , the Bill would hand billion of pound of UK taxpayer ' money to Mauritius , with no guarantee of protection of the marine environment , no provision to safeguard the right of british Chagossians , and no mechanism for Britain to monitor whether the safeguard around the strategic military base on Diego Garcia be effective . the conservative amendment offer a chance for the Government to be transparent , publish the legal advice on which they surrender the Chagos Islands , and give the House a vote on the payment of £ 35 billion to Mauritius . the treaty be damage in so many way , but let we not make the damage bad by wave it through unchecked . since this House first learn of the disastrous term of the Chagos surrender deal , there have be significant focus on the spiral cost and on the defence and security implication — we have hear many such argument today . the Government ' s weakness have compromise our national security . they be surrender british territory to an ally of China and pay £ 35 billion — or perhaps as much as £ 50 billion — for the privilege . their failure to defend the british national interest be shameful . equally shameful be the Government ' s failure to consider the impact that the deal will have on environmental protection for marine area . member from across the House have reflect on that today , but it be a shame that so few Labour Members come to stand up for our environmental protection in the Indian Ocean Territories . I will address the importance of new clause 3 and 4 , two sensible amendment table by the shadow Foreign Secretary to strengthen oversight of the marine protect area . the region of the indian ocean that host the unique and remarkable Chagos Islands be of critical importance to wildlife . the archipelago be a biodiversity hotspot . the 640 , 000 sq km marine protect area , which have be monitor by the UK for the past 15 year , have keep the surround water in near - pristine condition . the coral reef in the untouched marine protect area be some of the healthy in the world . they be a sanctuary for marine life , include endanger specie such as hawksbill turtle , green turtle and reef shark , and they be locate along hugely significant migratory route for specie of tuna , whale and seabird . the remarkable resilience of the reef to coral bleach event also make they highly significant for scientific research to well understand resilience to change climate . like I , the hon . Member be a new member , so I be puzzle : why do he consider that his party start these negotiation , if the whole thing be such a terrible idea ? there be a difference between talk with other country and do a deal . I know that those on the Opposition Front Bench who form part of the previous Government be not go to do this deal . they may have be talk , but as we have hear , there be go to be no agreement . I thank the hon . member for his intervention and reflect that I be not part of the previous Government , but he know full well that this agreement would not have be make under these term if the Conservatives be in government now . the marine protect area be one of the large untouched marine ecosystem , and it be globally significant . as such , instead of heedlessly drive this hopeless surrender deal through Parliament , the Government should have be ensure that protection for wildlife and the marine environment be watertight . when answer question before the Foreign Affairs Committee in June , the Minister would not give any clear assurance or guarantee on the future of the marine protect area . within his obfuscation about separate agreement with Mauritius , which hope we can " share objective and value " , he admit that we can only " take it on trust that there will be a Marine Protected Area " after sovereignty have be surrender . we absolutely do not need to take that on trust . the Government have fail to secure any meaningful safeguard or guarantee , and be instead hope — merely hope — that a memorandum of understanding will somehow protect that pristine ecosystem . how on earth can we have any confidence in that at all ? a simple change of Government in Mauritius , or even just a change of heart , would render the UK powerless to stop chinese trawler turn up and devastate the marine environment . give the evidence of China plunder the high sea , for example in the south Atlantic , just outside the Falkland Islands zone of economic interest , it absolutely will do the same in that territory . the hon . Gentleman be make a powerful point about the marine environment in the area , but do he accept that we do not even need a change of heart by Mauritius ? we do not need it to decide that the treaty be not worthwhile — it do not have the ability to give the protection . even if there be no change of heart , there be no ability to give such protection , which be why this be a bad deal for the environment . I absolutely agree , and I note that the right hon . Gentleman and I be the only Members in the Chamber from the Environmental Audit Committee , which I think be a damn indictment on those member in this House who be here to protect our environment and hold the Government to account on environmental protection . will the Minister now explain what will happen to the MPA in future , and say whether the Government will commit resource to support the protection of the MPA ? if so , where will those resource come from ? with the fishery Minister of Mauritius talk of issue fishing and trawl licence , it be more important than ever that we have last confidence in marine protection before british territory be surrender to Mauritius . when the Minister sum up the debate , will he say whether he share my concern over new fishing and trawl licence ? new clause 3 would require that any write instrument on the establishment and management of the marine protect area be subject to the approval of this House to ensure that it be fit for purpose . will the Minister say what progress have be make with develop the " separate … instrument " , reference in article 5 . 2 of the treaty ? will it be in place before Mauritius assume sovereignty ? any agreement on the Chagos MPA must be scrutinise like a treaty and present to Parliament . new clause 4 would require the Secretary of State regularly to report on the status of the marine protect area . report from Committees in the Lords have raise concern about Mauritius ' s track record on environmental protection . do the Minister agree with those concern , and therefore agree that the ecological status of this extraordinary environment must remain on the british Government ' s agenda , and will he reflect on that in his summing up of the debate ? will he now accept that , as well as cost british taxpayer £ 35 billion , betray british Chagossians and undermine our security , without well protection secure in the treaty , the Government ' s Chagos surrender deal will harm the marine environment ? all of this at a time when the Government argue that the state of public finance require tough choice — choice that punish pensioner , family farmer , and tax education for the very first time . the annual cost of the surrender of the Chagos island could pay for 3 , 068 new teacher , 3 , 253 new nurse or 1 , 975 police officer . in the first year , the money pay to Mauritius could deliver a new gp surgery in 30 community — community such as Wixams and Wootton in my constituency of Mid Bedfordshire , which be still wait for improved access to local healthcare . this be all a choice — a choice to prioritise ideological surrender over our community , over our security , and over marine protection . it be shameful , and I encourage hon . member across the House to support new clause 3 and 4 . I speak in support of new clause 1 , which would ensure that this House have a vote before any money be pay to the Government of Mauritius under the treaty . I support the new clause because it demonstrate the important principle of this House assert its rightful role as the guardian of both public money and british sovereignty . the privilege of this House have be serially insult in the debate we have have today , which I want to mention quickly . with this new treaty we see the height of what we see early : a dereliction of the responsibility of this House and the Government . early , in the urgent question on the China spy case , we hear that politician should not be consult — order . the hon . Gentleman will keep within the scope of this Bill , and not seek to rehash urgent question hold early . I understand , Madam Chairman , and of course you be quite right . the point I be make be that there have never be a Government who be so reluctant to govern as the one we have today . we have hear from hon . member how baffle the decision be to surrender the Chagos island . the only rational reason that could account for it be some kind of secret deal with China . I do not know if that be the case . the Government ' s obeisance to international law might well trump national sovereignty , and in fact there be no rational calculation behind this decision except that of submission to their idea of international law . again , I have to take serious issue with what the hon . Gentleman be suggest . if what he be suggest be true , why do the United States , our five Eyes partner , and other key ally support this deal ? it protect our national security , and it secure the base on Diego Garcia . why would they support it ? there be no secret deal — this be absolute nonsense . I be grateful to the Minister . I suspect there have be a private conversation with the American Government as well , and that in recognition of the fait accompli that this Government have yield to Mauritius , the Americans have extend this somewhat limited statement of support for the deal as some kind of favour to the Prime Minister , in exchange for support he have give they on other matter . the fact be that this deal be bad for Britain and bad for Britain ' s sovereignty , and behind the scene we know that the Americans do not support it . I want to talk about secret deal , because my only addition to the debate — very powerful point have be make already — be to say that secret deal have be do with respect to the Chagos island in the past . under the 30 - year rule , archival evidence have come out recently of a secret deal with respect to the base at Diego Garcia between the British Government of the day — the Thatcher Government — and the American Administration . that deal be do in the national interest . the renewal of the nuclear deterrent — the Trident programme — be be set up , and there be an agreement with the Americans whereby they could expand their access and the use of Diego Garcia in exchange for a reduction in the fee , essentially , that the British Government be charge for collaboration on the Trident programme . we have to pay significantly less than we would have pay otherwise because of the expand access that we be give to the Americans in those year . it be call the Diego - Trident package in the negotiation and the correspondence between the British and the Americans at that time . it be keep quiet for understandable reason , and we only know about it now . I worry that there be a similar lack of transparency around this deal because , as I say , it can not possibly be a deal that be in the national interest . we be try to get to the bottom of precisely why the Labour Government would make this deal . the hundred of people who work at the Vivergo plant in my constituency be sell out by the Prime Minister who , in a personal call with the President of the United States , surrender the entire bioethanol market of this country to the United States , with nothing in return , at the end of an already conclude trade deal negotiation . it be thing like that that make we worry what be behind this Bill , what be the secret deal and exactly who have be sell out . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the key demand that this House be make be for great transparency about what be go on behind the scene with this deal . I implore the House to insist that , before Parliament accept any new arrangement for the sovereignty of the Chagos island , Ministers explain what be go on . specifically , be the Minister aware of any effect on our nuclear posture ? be there any relationship between the deal that be be do today and implication for our deterrent ? the base be vital to our national interest , and I would be grateful to understand whether any discussion have be have with reference to the deal that be do many year ago about the relationship with the nuclear deterrent . I will speak to the amendment , start with amendment 1 and 7 , and take a canter through my position , as my constituent will have an interest in that . my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) ask the important question why . amendment 1 and 7 try to address the most important issue : context . as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) point out , our sign this deal do not make sense . the Government have be weak in present the evidence for why they think we should sign the deal . I write to the Government to ask they to explain , and I be able to pull their response apart on Second Reading , one step at a time , explain why their reason do not fit . context be really important . I think that the deal do not make sense , but factor in the collapse spy trial , the billion pound provide to the steel factory , the pende decision on the embassy — yes , maybe no — and the change in the language use around the subject of China , we need to get to the heart of what be go on . the amendment be an attempt to do that in the name of transparency , which be hugely important . do my hon . friend agree that the Government be treat China like it be our friend , rather than the threat that it be ? I would be interested to hear an answer to that , as we have try several time to get the Government to quantify whether China be a threat , a friend , an ally or a foe . amendment 7 try to look at " an analysis of the status of UK ' s sovereignty over the British Indian Ocean Territory under international law ; " . from talk about this previously , we know that UNCLOS , which be often use as the example of why we have to secede the territory , can not preside over sovereignty , as be say in 2015 when deal with the marine protect area . we have also hear the Government stress the importance of the International Telecommunications Union , say that the issue be to do with spectre and spy . however , we know that there be a carve - out , because we hear about that on Second Reading . that leave we with the International Court of Justice , which be often hold up as the key point . on Second Reading , I be take by the fact that it be allege that we have an opt - out under the Commonwealth , so I go away to have a quick look . on the ICJ website , as hon . member can see , the " declaration recognise the jurisdiction of the Court as compulsory — United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland " be publish on 22 February 2017 . I quote : " 1 . the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland accept as compulsory ipso facto and without special convention , on condition of reciprocity , the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice , ln conformity with paragraph 2 of article 36 of the Statute of the Court , until such time as notice may be give to terminate the acceptance , over all dispute arise after 1 January 1987 , with regard to situation or fact subsequent to the same date , other than : " — these be critical point — " ( i ) any dispute which the United Kingdom have agree with the other Party or Parties thereto to settle by some other method of peaceful settlement ; ( ii ) any dispute with the government of any other country which be or have be a Member of the Commonwealth ; " . that be there in black and white . however , the Government have yet to mention that in any of debate or letter about their legal position . we need amendment 1 and 7 to be able to understand why the Government do not see that as a strong enough argument to hold up . this nonsense about whether or not there be negotiation be answer there too , because those declaration say : " any method of peaceful settlement " . any good Government would try to resolve the dispute in a peaceful manner . I be surprised at that from a Labour party whose member pride themselves on be trade unionist , who make a living from negotiate and try to come to a solution without the matter go to a court . that be exactly what they should be do , but the Conservatives be be chastise for try to have a conversation to resolve the situation . the fact be that we do not come up with a deal because the deal be not good enough . the Labour Opposition move into power and have now put forward this horrendous Bill that give away power , but at what cost ? they be not even go to try in court or use some of the simple argument which I , as a doctor , have find after spend time research . I be sure that in this great country we have many legal buff that could put forward that argument , but if the government do not feel that it stand , they should come to this House and tell we why — put it in evidence , write it out and tell we all , and we will go quietly . however , we be not hear or see that from this Government , which be why we need amendment 1 and 7 . turn to amendment 3 , 4 and 6 , as have be rightly point out by my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness it be clear that the Bill give carte blanche to this Government , or any other , to do whatever they want . we may as well not even bother have a debate about the Bill — it be not worth the paper it be write on — because the Henry VIII power mean that Ministers can do what they will , when they will without come to Parliament . at least these amendment try to ensure some accountability of the Executive to this House , because this House should be make these decision , especially give their magnitude . we have hear from the government that it be a priceless base and we have hear from the Conservative Benches about its geopolitical and security importance . should the House not be make decision about what that look like ? new clause 1 talk about the payment . on Second Reading , I ask the Minister whether he could give I any example , from any part of the world , of when we have deal with sovereignty use net present value . he say it be in the Green Book , but that be for domestic site and use by the Treasury to look at civil development . I hope the Minister have go away and do some research , because I think he will find that there be not a precedent , as net present value be not the correct measure and be open to political interference . for example , we use 3 . 5 % and America use 7 % . we can fudge the number to fit the narrative that we would like to set . there be one other problem . the explanatory note stipulate only 30 year . unless I have misquote , this deal go for 99 year , so what happen in the remain 70 year ? that be why new clause 1 would bring in a robust check to ensure that when the finance be pay out , we know exactly why we be pay , who we be pay and what we be pay for . most importantly , we would know the mechanism of how the finance be calculate , because the Government still have not come to this place and set that out exactly . let I turn to new clause 2 . what happen at the end ? I raise that as my final point when I speak on Second Reading . we have hear about long - term security , but in this place we think only on a five - year cycle ; this be a 99 - year cycle . my big fear be that my child ' s child ' s child , if they be ever elect to this Parliament , will be have a debate in 99 year with the same issue about what happen . it be a dereliction of duty on our behalf in this House not to think thing through . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . I be surprised that nobody have refer to Hong Kong . when the decision be take and the agreement be reach in 1984 for the handover in 1997 , China agree that it would be " one country , two system " for at least 50 year . within less than half that time , Britain come to the conclusion that all those safeguard be be deliberately violate . as ever , my learn right hon . friend have pip I to the punch . that be exactly a good example of the kind of site we be worried about . what have that mean ? we have take on british national overseas and invite they in to give they security , because they fear for political interference and , worse still , for the safety of themselves and their family . we be not do our duty if we be not think about these thing , because , as we have already see , it be hard enough to predict thing in two or three year ' time , let alone 100 year . at that point , as it be write , we will get the good offer , but it will be only offer to we . we could be outstrip by China , Russia or a BRIC country in the future — we do not know ; it be 100 year away — and there be no mechanism to solve that . worse still , Mauritius could simply say , " we do not want a base here at all , " and there be nothing in this Bill that would stop that . the Government repeatedly have be ask those question , and they can not set that out . that be why new clause 2 ask for those impact to be consider and look at . new clause 3 would move the marine protect area . I will return to a point I make early . the fact be that when Britain and the United Kingdom be take under UNCLOS in 2010 by Mauritius under annex VII , we want to implement protection in the area . Mauritius feel that that impede on its ability to make its own decision , which the court find in favour of , and it also want to fish in the area . hang on a second ! we be put weakness into this Bill when we know that Mauritius have set its intent . I hope it have move on , as the debate on climate have , but this new clause would be a guarantee to ensure that that have be think about . let I turn to new clause 5 . I appreciate the Minister step up , because there have already be debate about the Peros Banhos island , and he have say there be no concern that they will be lease to China . let we be real : this Bill have only just come out — the ink be barely dry — and we already hear story . many journalist have already talk about this issue . maybe I be wrong , but that show the example of what could and will come without pay attention to the security and the geopolitical and strategic advantage that these island have , which my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) talk about . all new clause 5 ask we to do be ensure that that be report on and look at . again , there be a dereliction of duty by not have that report . I could go on , because there be many more amendment , but the salient point in this debate have be make . all the amendment table in the name of Conservatives — and , to be fair , in the name of member of many other opposition party — ask for one simple thing : transparency and explanation . they ask for a simple way of see what the legal advice do and where the financial outcome come . indicate assent . the Minister be nod along , but there must be something wrong if the public and Opposition Members can not simply understand the argument for what be be put in place . we can not see the wood for the tree . it be a Government ' s duty to show those argument , and I look forward to the Minister do that in his response and put these argument to bed once and for all . otherwise , the british public will not forgive he . I will primarily focus on new clause 8 , which be in my name and the name of colleague . first and foremost , this Bill be about perfect the decolonisation of the British Indian Ocean Territory — that be self - evident in clause 2 — but it do that in a way that ignore a primary component of decolonisation . we subscribe to United Nations resolution 1514 . that resolution talk about respect not only the integrity of territory , but self - determination . the British Indian Ocean Territory have exist , de facto and de jure , for over 50 year , yet the Government ' s approach in justify this completion of decolonisation be to focus solely on territorial integrity by claim that the Chagos island be , in fact , part of Mauritius . resolution 1514 contain a number of component . its first point be that " the subjection of people to alien subjugation , domination and exploitation constitute a denial of fundamental human right " . its second point be that " all people have the right to self - determination " . the question for this House be surely this : be the Chagossians a people ? I certainly think that they be . they be distinct from the Mauritians by their ethnic background , by their religion and by geography . Mauritius and the Chagos island be over 1 , 300 mile apart , approximately as far as it be from this House to north Africa , so after 50 year of the existence of the BIOT , it really be a stretch to say that the sole defining issue be that of territorial integrity . to say that be to ignore the right to self - determination . this nation have deal with decolonisation before , and we do not approach it on the basis that it be only about territorial integrity . take the example of India . we decolonise in India , but we allow it to be subject to self - determination — that be why we have India , Pakistan and Bangladesh . it be quite clear that this be not a situation in which territorial integrity trump everything else . it do not trump self - determination . an experience of decolonisation such as India ' s show that territorial integrity be secondary to self - determination , yet the right of the people who claim the Chagos island as their homeland to any measure of self - determination be the one thing that have be utterly ignore in this process . we have in our history the shameful episode of their forceful removal from the Chagos island , and now under this treaty , we be go to compound that shame by legitimise that removal . say that this be only about territorial integrity be to legitimise their forceful removal from the Chagos island — that be how we get around the question of self - determination . that be wrong . the people of the Chagos island be a people . they be a people with a homeland ; therefore , under international law , they be a people with a right to self - determination , so why do this treaty and this Bill trash that right ? that be the fundamental haunting question when it come to the humanity and international legal requirement of the situation that prevail . the Government be obviously hold to the line , " it be only about territorial integrity , " but they be hoist by their own petard , because they have recognise the Chagossians as a people by set aside some million of pound for they . they can not say it be only about territorial integrity , and there be no people to whom to give the right to self - determination , and then say , " for those people to whom we deny the right to self - determination , here be some conscience money . " they can not do that , yet that be what the treaty do . the BIOT recognise the separateness of the people of the Chagos island , and even the much - vaunted advisory judgment of the International Court of Justice give respect and acknowledgment — to an extent — to the question of self - determination . at one point , the judgment state : " it follow that any detachment by the administering Power of part of a non - self - govern territory , unless base on the freely express and genuine will of the people of the territory concern , be contrary to the right to self - determination . " even that advisory judgment recognise the exception of the freely express and genuine will of the people , but that be what we have not have on this issue . this government have go out of their way to deny the free and genuine expression of opinion by the people whose homeland be the Chagos island . that shameful indictment compound what we do to those people at the end of the 1960 . the Government now totally dehumanise their human right by say , " you have no right whatever when it come to self - determination . " that be fundamentally wrong . if the splitting of that wide colony in 1965 be illegitimate because there be no self - determination , accord to the advisory judgment of the Court , then equally the Chagos island rejoin Mauritius without self - determination be illegitimate . the Government can not have it both way , but that be what this Bill be seek to do . the Government say that because it be illegitimate to split the Chagos island off from Mauritius in 1965 because there be no self - determination , the Bill be about territorial integrity only , but if the basis of rejoin the Chagos island to Mauritius be without self - determination , then that equally be illegitimate . those be some of the point that this Government have not face , and if they have face they , they have not answer they . this House be legitimately ask those question tonight , and wait for answer . if those answer do not come , it will illustrate how this be the tawdry , unacceptable and unenforceable Bill that it will ultimately be see to be . the Minister will try his good in a few minute to defend this wholly indefensible Bill , but the public know what it be : they see it as an absolute sell - out . I suspect that the Government Members who be not fill the green Benches see it as a sell - out , too . that be why every single one of they fail to support the Bill in Committee , save for one brave or perhaps misguided Member . the public can see that they be a weak government without the backbone necessary to stand up for the british public ' s interest . they see this Bill as the sell - out that it be geopolitically , with the Government blind to the associated security risk , the sell - out that it be financially , with £ 35 billion go to a foreign Government , and the sell - out that it be of the chagossian people , with their exclusion from negotiation . the public be baffle by the Government ' s argument in relation to this agreement , as indeed be I . let we look at the legal rationale for capitulation . it have collapse under scrutiny . we be tell by the Minister at the Dispatch Box that the primary reason why this deal be need be the " imminent threat of a bind judgment " , yet no such tribunal exist . originally , I believe , the Minister think that it be to be the International Court of Justice , but we now know , as the Minister should know , that the ICJ do not have bind capacity when the UK be deal with a former Commonwealth country , so it be not the ICJ . we have also hear it say from the Dispatch Box that perhaps it be the United Nations convention on the law of the sea , but we also now know that in 2015 UNCLOS exclude itself from the ability to have jurisdiction on land - base dispute . so , my goodness , don ' t we need amendment 7 , which would require the Government to publish the legal argument behind their currently baffle decision to go through with this deal ? we be all wrestle with the question " why ? " as my hon . friend have say , the Government ' s position be clear in 2017 : namely , that the ICJ have no power over a deal we make with a Commonwealth member . perhaps this Prime Minister have , without tell we , reverse that in some way , and the Government have decide that this should be subject to the ICJ , in which case the Minister would have a point , but should we not know that we make ourselves subject to the ICJ when previously we be not ? what other answer be there ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to ask those question — question that have be ask of the Government time and again throughout this legislative process , but to which we simply have not have an answer . the Government seem to be blind to the risk of the craven withdrawal of influence from the Indo - Pacific region . this be more Jonathan Powell . he be , of course , the Prime Minister ' s envoy , and the architect of the negotiation and the deal . the more I learn of Jonathan Powell , the more I realise that he seem to have a long - term instinct to downplay the threat from China — a threat in the Indian Ocean through this negotiate deal . let we not forget that this be the same Jonathan Powell who now wear a different hat . he be now the National Security Adviser , and that , very unusually , be a political appointment . there be the question of his involvement — or perhaps it be not his involvement — in the collapse of the chinese spying case . we be ask to believe that he be not involve in it , and that seem baffle as well . be my hon . friend as surprised as I be to find out that the National Security Adviser do not speak to his deputy ? [ interruption . ] order . I do not think we need this chuntering from the Front Bench . can we ensure that the speech remain within the legislation that we be debate and vote on tonight ? I will endeavour to do so , Madam Chair . in fact , I will more than endeavour ; I will do so . the reason this be relevant be that it speak to new clause 5 . while the Government have their head in the sand in respect of Mauritius ' s relation with China — this be why it be important , Madam Chair — their first argument be that Mauritius will not be influence by China , and be it not awful of we to suggest that it might be . I raise this question with the former Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , back in October last year . I raise concern that Mauritius be an ally of China and be open to influence from that country . with the disdain for which he be now famous , the right hon . Gentleman pooh - poohe that . he say that Mauritius be not a chinese ally because it be not part of the belt and road agreement in Africa . when we look at the relationship between China and Mauritius , however , we see that they have strong bilateral tie that go back to 1972 , on economic co - operation and diplomatic support . China be the large trading partner of Mauritius , which enter into a free trade agreement with China — the first such free trade agreement that China have enter into on the african continent . perhaps it do not need to belong to the belt and road agreement in addition to its free trade agreement . there be influence express through investment , loan and grant . China build the international airport terminal for Mauritius . it have invest in the Jinfei economic and trade co - operation zone — a flagship belt and road initiative — and between 2000 and 2012 China also fund 47 development project in Mauritius through loan and grant . so forgive I , Madam Chair , if I do not swallow the argument that Mauritius be wholly beyond the influence of China . the Government say , " if Mauritius be under the influence of China , don ' t worry , because China don ' t support this deal . China will be argue against this deal . " we be tell by the Prime Minister that China , Russia and Iran do not support the Chagos deal . therefore , presumably my geopolitical security fear must be wrong . well , Ministers have repeatedly be ask for the evidence that China do not support this deal , and none have be provide to date . if I be wrong on that , perhaps the Minister will say from the Dispatch Box where China have express its concern about this deal . if you be to listen to the chinese ambassador to Mauritius , even you , Madam Chair , would be forgive for think that China be thoroughly in favour of this deal , because he send " massive congratulation " to Mauritius and say that China " fully support " Mauritius ' s attempt to " safeguard national security . " that be the definition of doublespeak if it do not mean that China be wholly in favour of this deal and be celebrate it with Mauritius . I be not convinced , and neither be the Government . I be fond of the hon . Gentleman , who speak of " doublespeak " . it be not long ago in my political lifetime that the former Member for Witney , the then Prime Minister , invite his Excellency Xi Jinping for a pint in the Plough at Cadsden , in Oxfordshire . as he depart back to China from the airport in my constituency , I sit with the Prime Minister as he fawn over the Chinese Administration like it be some papal visit . what be go on with the Conservatives ? be you divide on what our approach to China should be ? order . Mr Kane , do not use the word " you " , because that refer to I . I be not often compare to the noble Lord Cameron , but it be absolutely right that as the geopolitical environment change , so should our policy . we on this side of the House be realist . as I be in government at the time , I can answer the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) : the golden decade propose by the then Chancellor , with whom I do not get on very well , be a disaster . if anything should have be learn by that , his Government should have learn that when you sup with the Chinese , you well have a very long spoon , because they suck you in . we get nothing out of those 10 year , and now look at we . order . Mr Mayhew and colleague who hope to intervene , let we remember the scope of the debate in front of we . it be for exactly those reason that we so desperately need new clause 5 , which would require an annual security report to the Intelligence and Security Committee . that would mean that we be not catch with our head in the sand again . we be begin to build a picture of a slippery Government who be not be honest with the british people , not be honest about the legal justification for this deal and not be honest about the security risk associate with the deal , and who be now be slippery about the financial cost as well . again , the Prime Minister himself say that this slippery deal be go to cost the taxpayer £ 101 million a year for 99 year . he round that down from £ 10 billion , which my math would have come to , to £ 3 . 4 billion . through a freedom of information request , the Government Actuary ' s Department have confirm that the actual cost be £ 34 . 7 billion . do the Prime Minister just get the decimal point in the wrong place , or be it something more sinister ? Madam Chair , you could be forgive for think that the Government should no long be trust . they be change their story in relation to this agreement , and they change their story in relation to the China spy trial collapse . we need new clause 1 so that no payment can be make without direct approval from the House of Commons . at least then the Government would have to explain the real figure and be open to transparency and scrutiny . the public see through Labour ' s deal , and they know a sell - out when they see one . the Opposition amendment and new clause bring transparency to expose this sell - out from a weak Prime Minister without the backbone to stand up for Britain . no wonder Labour member be about to vote against they . I will be brief , but I be very pleased to be able to speak in this debate as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the Chagos island , which last week have its 103rd meeting . it have be ably support by David Snoxell , the former british high commissioner to Mauritius , who have do incredible work with his knowledge of and empathy for the chagossian people . there be two former chair of the group in the Committee at the moment — the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) and for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) — and the former Member for Crawley be also chair of the group at one time . we found that group a long time ago to listen to , and take action in support of , the Chagos islander , who be angry that they have be forcibly remove from their home , angry at the way they have be treat by successive british government , and very angry at the initial decision that be take and the sheer brutality that go with it . to give member a brief example , in 1973 a 20 - year - old chagossian woman , Liseby Elys é , while carry her unborn child , be forcibly remove from the Chagos island of Peros Banhos . she lose her unborn child soon after her traumatic upheaval and the journey , and she and her husband survive with considerable uncertainty and in very precarious living condition , like all other Chagossians . however , 45 year later , in 2018 , she represent her community at the Hague when she speak about her life and her loss . her story be compelling and memorable , like those of so many other Chagos islander , because of the personal horror , trauma and abuse that they suffer . they have always demand and fight for their right of return , and that be the central core of what the all - party parliamentary group on the Chagos island have do . I realise there be now different opinion in the group about the sovereignty or otherwise of the island , but there have always be a fundamental agreement on the right of return . that lead to massive legal action , which be bravely fight by the Chagos islander with very little support . there be a few people such as Richard Gifford , their solicitor , who be fantastic in their support . eventually , we gather wide support , and we get favourable decision at all level of justice around the world , include at the United Nations General Assembly . it be worth recall , as many member have do , the 1965 decision make by Harold Wilson , then Prime Minister . in offer Mauritius its independence , he come to this extraordinarily complicated deal , which essentially involve the United States get a base on Diego Garcia and , in return , Mauritius get its independence . somewhere along the line , as the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) point out , there would either be a discount on the next generation of nuclear weapon , or free delivery of weapon at some point in the future . a lot of this be shroud in mystery , in the private conversation between Wilson and Prime Minister Ramgoolam at the time , so there be a lot of confusion surround that . somewhere at that time the idea be to set up the British Indian Ocean Territory , and somewhere at that time the decision be make that the archipelago — include Peros Banhos , which be a considerable distance from Diego Garcia — would be separate from Mauritius as well and that it would have to be depopulate , hence the utter brutality of the removal of the entire population from the island . so the question that many member have bring up be this : should the Chagos island be separate from Mauritius or part of Mauritius ? interestingly , during the 1965 discussion Mauritius never accept the separation . it never accept that the Chagos island should be separate either constitutionally or in any other way from Mauritius . as we know , the decision be basically force on the Mauritians in return for their independence . we now have a situation in which we have finally get a treaty . it have its imperfection — of that everyone be agree . personally , I be less than happy about the idea of a massive military base on Diego Garcia , and even less happy that it might be there in 100 year ' time . however , a treaty have be agree that will ensure the right of Chagos islander to return to the Chagos island , but unfortunately only a limited right of return to Diego Garcia itself . I be look forward to the Minister ' s speech , and I would be grateful if be able to say a bit more about the right of access to Diego Garcia for Chagos islander , their right to visit the church and the grave of their ancestor , and whether there be some possibility of a degree of residence on Diego Garcia . there be no other place in the world where a military base be surround by an entirely depopulated area , in this case an island , and I would be grateful if the Minister be able to say something about that . we have fight for the right of return . I fully understand that Chagos islander — some resident here , some in the Seychelles , many in Mauritius , and other in a diaspora all around the world , in France and many other place — probably all have different view and different memory , but in the survey that be do when this issue be discuss at great length about 10 year ago , they be all in favour of the right of return . the issue of sovereignty under Mauritius be not really a great feature of those discussion , although it appear to be now . we should listen to the Chagos Refugees Group , base in Mauritius and lead brilliantly by Olivier Bancoult , who have be through every court case . indeed , he start the whole process of demand the right of return , which have eventually be successfully achieve . the statement that the Chagos Refugees Group make last week say : " the Agreement therefore meet the aim of our community to be reunite with our Islands . it have be conclude after nearly 3 year of negotiation between Mauritius and the UK and extensive consultation . unless , therefore , the Agreement be approve and implement , our exile will continue with no hope of restore our fundamental human right to return . it be the creation of BIOT on 8 June 1965 , 60 year ago , which lead to our exile . " [ Official Report , 22 October 2025 ; Vol . 773 , c . 4wc . ] ( correction ) we be see another page in the dramatic history of the indian ocean . surely we should recognise the human right of the people who be so disgracefully treat by Britain — and by the United States , but principally by Britain . they , at last , will see some degree of justice and the ability to return to their island . I hope , when the Minister reply , that he will be able to give I some hope and comfort on the question of access to Diego Garcia , and also explain why it be necessary to have these incredibly long lease for the US to continue its operation on Diego Garcia . it seem to I that we should be work towards the indian ocean be an ocean of peace , not an ocean of conflict between rival power . for no apparent reason , and in a crowded field , the Government have choose the Chagos island as one of the many hill they wish to die on . the surrender of the sovereignty of the Chagos island have be a puzzle mis - step for month , with today ' s vote the culmination of it . there be a clumsy rush to try to force the deal through , first before the election in Mauritius and then before the US election , and there now appear to be an attempt to salvage some dignity , have seemingly surrender " meekly to a Mauritian shakedown " , as my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) have put it , while try to upsell the deal to a US Government that publicly back it , give that it will not cost they a penny , but privately must have concern over the impact of allow chinese encroachment in the region . with recent development shift the focus of US foreign policy to the Indo - Pacific , the Chagos island deal surely take on great significance . the base be now more important to US policy , not less . last December , the previous Armed Forces Minister , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , who be in his place , announce that the deal " secure the future of the UK - US base on Diego Garcia " , and say that " when everyone look at the detail of the deal , they will back it " . — [ Official Report , 2 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 28 . ] indeed , the Minister for the Overseas Territories , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) confirm to I that " there have be no change to the substance of the deal " . — [ Official Report , 5 February 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 764 . ] that be strange , because the new Prime Minister of Mauritius , Navin Ramgoolam , describe the deal strike with the previous Mauritian Government as a " sell - out " , state that the deal should be index to inflation , take exchange rate into account and fully recognise Mauritius ' s ownership of the island , which could affect the UK ' s unilateral right to renew the lease . that be in mid - January . Less than a fortnight later , the Minister confirm to I in a write answer that the UK would not have the unilateral ability to extend the agreement at the end of the lease . what change be make to the original deal during discussion with the Government of Mauritius , and why have the Government go on record as say that the deal have not change , in direct contradiction with the statement of the Prime Minister of Mauritius ? surely the Minister for the Overseas Territories be not suggest that Prime Minister Ramgoolam be mistaken . in January , when I ask the Prime Minister whether he have ever discuss the Chagos island with Philippe Sands KC , his answer be a brusque , " no . " Brevity be key when try not to give too much away . Philippe Sands have represent Mauritius at the International Court of Justice in multiple dispute over the Chagos island . in 2022 , Mr Sands publish " the last colony : a Tale of Exile , Justice and Britain ' s Colonial Legacy " about Chagos . it be worth highlight that Philippe Sands and the Prime Minister have apparently be very good friend for several year ; they even interview one another at the Hay festival . early this year , the Telegraph report that the national security justification for surrender the Chagos island use by the Prime Minister come from Philippe Sands , who write about it in the 2023 book , " the International Legal Order in the 21st Century " . with Mr Sands apparently no long represent Mauritius follow the change in regime , it do make one wonder if that be the reason why there be such a rush to conclude the deal before the election , after which Mr Sands ' service be no long require — do the Government lose their in ? I would be interested to know how the Government think the International Telecommunication Union would block our use of the electromagnetic spectrum . how would it block communication equipment on Diego Garcia without encroach on our territory ? what active blocking of electromagnetic frequency be a UN agency capable of do anyway ? what step would the ITU have take to block the US military ' s use of the electromagnetic spectrum have we not progress this deal ? the national security argument simply do not stack up . new clause 6 would require the Secretary of State to report annually to Parliament on the impact of UNCLOS on the operation of the treaty . the Government have previously state that it be itlos that would pose the great threat to the operation of Diego Garcia . it be cite specifically by the Defence Secretary for the first — and only — time on 22 May , when he say : " there be a range of international legal challenge and ruling against we . the most proximate , and the most potentially serious , be the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea . " — [ Official Report , 22 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 1291 . ] in July , the Minister for the Overseas Territories refer to ITLOS for the first time since he be a shadow Minister for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , when , in December 2022 , he have state that the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea " do not have competence on territorial dispute " , go on to say : " it be a fact that China have make increase encroachment into the territorial water of its neighbour and vast claim in the South China sea while ignore judgment against itself . that have be match by a grow assertiveness , and even belligerence , towards some of our ally and partner in the region " . — [ Official Report , 7 December 2022 ; Vol . 724 , c . 162WH . ] he ask for assurance then . now , nearly three year later , with a belligerent China flex its naval muscle in the region and adopt a robust posture towards we over the delay to the decision on its London embassy and the obvious ongoing spy debacle , what assurance can the Government give the Committee that this opportunity will not be exploit by the chinese Communist party ? as recently as August , the Mauritian Government refer to " the strategic role of Mauritius as an investment gateway to Africa and a trusted partner for chinese enterprise seek to expand their footprint therein " . Mauritius be commit to work closely with China — far close , it would appear , than it be to work with we . why be the Government prepare to embolden chinese ambition in the Pacific ? why be they prepared to embolden chinese spying in Parliament ? why be they prepared to allow the Chinese to build an embassy in London without absolute clarity on its structural plan ? with all that in mind , why will the Government not include China in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ? the shadow of Jonathan Powell loom large over this deal , as it have over every aspect of the Government ' s dealing with the Chinese Communist party . across the globe , we be see change in the rule - base order . we must navigate this well . my fear , which be share by all on the Conservative Benches , be that this capitulation show no understanding of the change we be face . we need to ensure that this great nation stand up for safety , freedom and security across an increasingly dangerous world , and this opaque and furtive deal put that at unacceptable risk . a deal of such implication , one would have think , would have be hotly debate in this House , yet as have be point out , there have be no attempt to defend it by the Government . in fact , one could hardly call this a debate — it have all be one - sided . in a debate , people usually argue in favour of whatever the proposal happen to be and listen to and rebut the argument from the other side . we have have no rebuttal from the other side — the government — today , despite the fact that this be such an important deal . for some people outside the House , this deal might seem to be an unimportant issue — where be the Chagos island , and why do they matter ? however , even if the attitude take by Government Members be to say , " our constituent be not all that interested in the issue around the Chagos island , " there be issue with this deal that have be raise this evening that should concern they all . let we look at the issue , because they be address by the amendment . the first be human right — the human right of the people who be displace in the 1960 and who be ignore in this deal . their right to self - determination and to decide where they live be be ignore , yet we be not get any response from the Government — the party that talk about human right all the time . they say that we can not leave the european convention on human right because human right be so important , but they be ignore the human right of the people who be affect by this deal . will the right hon . member give way ? since we be go to have a debate , I will listen to the Minister . I thank the right hon . member for give way . he say that he want a debate , and I have give a number of rebuttal . he mention the Chagossians , whom I will come to in my concluding remark . I respect what he have to say , but I point he to remark from the Chagos Refugees Group , which say in its communiqu é to all of we : " we urge all member of Parliament to support the Bill at its final stage and deliver long overdue justice to all our people . pass this Bill will mark a turning point and the moment when Parliament stand on the right side of history and begin to restore what be unjustly take from we . " there be a range of view within the chagossian community , and I think it be important that those be put on the record . of course there be many who take a totally different point of view and whose wish be not reflect in this Bill . the amendment that have be table to seek to remedy that situation be be ignore and oppose by the Government . the second issue be the economy . on a regular basis , we hear how difficult the fiscal position be for this country — black hole we have to fill by take money off pensioner , reduce benefit , cut here and cut there , and tax people to the hilt . yet when amendment be table that simply request transparency and the opportunity to look at the expenditure involve in this treaty , we hear no support from the Government . either we be concerned about the fiscal position of this country or we be not . I would suggest that £ 35 billion — and rise — be a significant figure that we should be look at . the right hon . Member be make a powerful point . be not part of the problem that we do not even know which budget the money be come out of ? that be the kind of simple question that the man or woman on the street would expect we to be able answer . we may not know which budget it be come from , but we know whose pocket it be come from : the pocket of taxpayer . to a certain extent it do not really matter , because all our constituent will pay for this deal . the Minister say that the Chagos island be priceless , yet we be give they away and give away taxpayer ' money for they — and we do not even know how much we will be give in the long run . I would have think that some Government Members have concern , if not about human right then about the financial implication of the deal . especially at this time , national security be an important issue for every Member of the House , yet amendment that seek to ensure that there be scrutiny over what happen to these island , who have influence in they and whether the treaty that have be enter into guarantee that our security will not be jeopardise be be refuse . the Government be not even attack the amendment or explain their opposition . do the right hon . member share my dismay that , despite a Government majority of over 170 and the fact that there be over 400 Government mp , on an issue of national security only one Government Back Bencher speak in this debate ? do he think that be an indication of how the Labour party view national security and an overseas territory be give away for nothing ? I do . since the hon . Member have give I the opportunity , I will make the point now — I be go to make it later on — that while no Government Members have be rush to defend the Bill in the Committee , hundred of they will be rush through the Lobby at 10 o ' clock or half - past 10 to vote for it . that be the worrying thing . defence of it , there be none ; support for it , despite the issue we have highlight , there will be . I hear time and again that the Government be the green Government there have ever be . some people will say , as they already have , " well , you can hardly talk about green government give your attitude towards man - make climate change . " the fact that I do not support the policy of net zero do not mean that I do not care about the environment . indeed , we need to protect many aspect of our environment , and some of the green policy actually destroy the environment , but I will leave that there . on the Environmental Audit Committee , we recently call for an end to bottom trawling because of the damage it do to the marine environment . will the right hon . member give way ? I will in a minute , but let I finish this point . yet here we have a Bill that do not give any long - term security to one of the pristine marine environment . indeed , we be hand over responsibility for it to a Government who could not even get a boat to put a flag up , yet we be suppose to believe that they will be able to protect the marine environment if foreign country attempt to destroy it by do deep - sea trawling , bottom trawling and so on . I would have think that the environmentalist on the Government Benches might at least have ask some question about the treaty , or would have support some of the amendment that seek to do that , yet we find that be not the case . this be a bad bill . it will have long - term implication for our country financially and it will have long - term implication for those people who feel that perhaps there be an opportunity for their right to self - determination to be grant . they have not be . of course , there be also danger to our long - term security . I will finish with this point . I have no doubt that the Minister will repeat the point he make . sure , the Americans support it — as if the Americans always make good strategic decision . they do not . give the time tonight , I know that you would stop I , Madam Chairman , if I start go through some of the bad strategic decision the Americans have make that we and the world have live with and their consequence . just because the Americans — for short - term gain or short - term interest — have support the deal , let we not say it be okay . it be a bad deal . amendment be make to try to improve the Bill . the shame be that those amendment be not debate . the Bill go contrary to the belief of many member on the Government Benches . unfortunately , I suspect the Bill will go through with a huge majority . for the final Back - Bench contribution , I call Mr Jim Shannon . if people have contribute , they should make their way back to the Chamber . Danny Kruger , I be look at you to whip your colleague . indicate assent . thank you for allow I to speak on this issue once again , Ms Ghani . I will prefix my comment with this . it be always good to see the Ministers — the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) and the Minister for Defence Readiness and Industry , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — in their place . they be both honourable man whose friendship I value . be ever respectful , and with great respect to both hon . gentleman , I wish to make some comment that will be very contrary to what they have put forward today . it will be no surprise that I rise at the last hour and as the last Back - Bench speaker — that be often the case , but none the less it be always a pleasure to make a contribution — to ask the Government again to reconsider their decision and ask the Committee to oppose the Bill , even though I know that the number game do not stack up . as we all know , the treaty provide for Mauritius to exercise full sovereignty over the Chagos archipelago , with the UK exercise right on Diego Garcia during an initial 99 - year period . over those 99 year , the UK will pay Mauritius a total of around £ 3 . 4 billion in 2025 - 26 price , and that will probably rise . at a time when the Government be tax farmer , tax widow ' pension and tax the middle class into oblivion , hand over £ 3 . 4 billion with a benefit that be not tangible be unacceptable . our constituent will be bad off in the next financial year . indeed , a typical british family be as much as £ 15 , 000 a year poor than they be five year ago , accord to recent Telegraph Money analysis . why , then , have we enter into this agreement , which may fluctuate and cost substantially more than the figure that have be predict ? I want to make it clear that I believe this treaty should be renegotiate from begin to end , but if the Bill be to go ahead , it be essential that any increase in payment should come through this House , and that whatever Government be in place at that time should present that . I therefore support new clause 1 , which would give certainty and security that increase would not take place without the approval of this House . turn to new clause 2 , 5 and 7 , I have long state that there be now substantial risk to our military basis , and that have be reiterate by every person bar one in the Committee today . I be anxious to understand our legal standing on this . I believe it be right and proper for the Committee to understand the nature of how rent from Mauritius will give we the safety and security need to ensure that those station on the base , or rely on support from the base in that area , will not feel vulnerable or expose . I believe that this deal do expose we , and that we need to be very much aware of our standing and take the necessary step . that begin with have full knowledge and not simply empty assurance . the recent debacle with the chinese spy decision have show that openness , transparency and accountability be need even more tonight than they have be in the other statement and urgent question today . new clause 2 would enforce that as a minimum . new clause 9 be similar to new clause 8 , table by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) and my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) . I support new clause 9 , give its similarity to the new clause bring forward by my Northern Ireland colleague , who be intimately aware of how issue on the ground can be vastly different from those that be report . this addition to ensure that a report be make on the compliance of the treaty and the Act with the UN General Assembly resolution on decolonisation be vital and , I believe , underline the word of support that have be give to those in the area who be fearful of the removal of british influence and support and fearful of the mauritian ideal , which be flag by our american ally in their human right report in 2023 . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on international freedom of religion or belief , I know that the two issue of human right and persecution be married together as one , because when we highlight the issue of human right , we also highlight the issue of persecution of religious belief , and vice versa . I really have to express some concern over human right in this context . I understand that the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth will reply to the debate . although I believe he understand and believe in these issue as strongly as I do , I still have great concern about human right . it be essential that we do not simply hand over control and abandon not just the military base but all in the region who have rely on our support and friendship over the year . unfortunately , this have be a bad treaty from begin to end . our chagossian citizen remain unhappy , our armed force remain unhappy and the family who be foot the bill be unhappy . I believe that the Government have make the wrong decision on this . the recent chinese debacle have heighten the need to continue to have boot on the ground and eye wide open against those who would seek to thwart british interest and the interest of freedom and democracy worldwide . we have recently see the result of appeasement when the israeli Deputy Prime Minister highlight the difficulty bring about by this Government ' s decision to recognise terrorism and a palestinian state with no border , no work non - terrorist Government and no social care system . the handing over of Chagos and rent it back will prove to be a costly and dangerous exercise in capitulation , and even at this very late stage I urge the Government to think again and , at the very least , accept additional protection for the sake of all our collective security . I thank all hon . and right hon . member for their contribution . I will attempt to respond to the specific of the amendment and new clause in due course , but I want to come back to some of the fundamental point that have be raise during the debate first , and I also want to respond to some of the specific question that be raise . with the exception of some genuine question in relation to the Chagossians , the MPA and the environmental protection , and the implementation of this treaty , it be a shame to see the rehash of the same argument that be make on Second Reading . there be some outrageous and nonsensical argument and claim , particularly relate to the cost and to other matter , which I will come to . I be shock by some of the anti - american , conspiracy - fuel nonsense that we hear at various point during the debate . the base be critical to the United Kingdom , the United States , our ally and our national security , and the Bill and the treaty protect the functioning of that base . it do not surrender it ; it secure it into the future . this be a Government who inherit a mess from the former Ministers on the Opposition Benches . we be get stuff do . we be a patriotic government ; our first duty be to protect the national security of this country , and that be why we have get this deal do . it be why it be back by the United States . it be why it be back by our five Eyes partner . it be absolutely crucial to protect the british people and our ally . we have be very transparent about the reason for it , and they be the exact opposite of what have be suggest . I come back , as I always have do , to the fundamental question : if there be not a problem and a risk to the operation of this crucial base , why do the previous Government start the negotiation , why do they continue they through 11 round of negotiation , and why do they continue they right up until the general election ? those be the fact . will the Minister give way ? I will happily take intervention , but first I want to respond to the point that have be make . this agreement have be back by our key ally and international partner , include the US and our five Eyes ally . India , Japan and South Korea have also make clear their strong support . many question be ask about the robust security provision that we have in place to protect the UK and the base for decade to come . the treaty and the Bill secure full operational control of Diego Garcia , a strict ban on foreign security force across the archipelago and an effective veto on any activity that threaten the base on Diego Garcia . it have be welcome by the International Agreements Committee and the International Relations and Development Committee in the other place , which say that they " be assure that the Agreement preserve the UK ' s and the US ' s freedom of action . " the legal rationale have be refer to many time , but legally bind provisional measure from the court could have come within week , for example , affect our ability to patrol the water around Diego Garcia , and even if we do not comply , international organisation and other country would . we have set out the legal rationale on a number of occasion . we have be very clear . we also publish document around it . will the Minister give way ? I will respond to some point first . hon . member have have plenty of time to make their case . I have also respond to many of their point during the course of the debate , and I be go to respond to the question . China have be raise erroneously on many occasion , but we have negotiate robust security provision to protect the UK and the base for decade to come , and that include a strict ban on any foreign security force , include the Chinese , across the archipelago . the question of finance be raise by a number of member , and indeed a number of the amendment refer to it . I have to be absolutely clear , as I be on Second reading : the £ 30 billion to £ 35 billion figure quote by some from the opposition be totally inaccurate and wildly misleading . it be utterly wrong to ignore the effect of inflation and the change value of money on the real cost of a deal that last 99 year . we publish the full cost alongside the treaty . [ hon . member : " how much ? ] they ask how much . I have be very clear about that throughout the debate and at the early stage . the average cost per year in today ' s money be £ 101 million , and the net present value of payment under the treaty be £ 3 . 4 billion . just for comparison , the cost compare favourably to other international basing agreement . France , for example , as I say , recently announce an € 85 million a year deal with Djibouti . this base be much large and have much more capability , so it compare very favourably . conservative Members ask about cost . the total expect cost of the treaty use that NPV methodology , which be the same that have be agree by the Government Actuary ' s Department and other , be just over one third of the value lose by the Department for Health and Social Care under their government on PPE that be waste in the first year of the pandemic , if they want to talk about cost and waste money . this be a clear investment in our national security . we will not scrimp on our national security , and we will not apologise for keep our base safe . could the Minister give any example worldwide where NPV have be use for sovereignty purpose ? I have be clear throughout . we have set and publish the methodology . it have be back by the Office for Budget Responsibility , the statistic regulator and other , and I be happy to set that all out again in write for the hon . member if that would be helpful . I be quite surprised to hear some of the unfortunate remark make by some member about the United States and its commitment to this base . the United States pay for the operating cost . we have a crucial national security relationship , which keep we , the United States and our ally safe . this be a joint base on Diego Garcia . it be absolutely right that those arrangement be in place . as I say , the value from the capability of the base be priceless . this be absolutely the right investment to make . I be appal by some of the comment be make . I remind the Committee that President Trump , Secretary of War Hegseth and Secretary Rubio have publicly support the treaty , as have five Eyes partner and other . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not give way to the hon . member . he be not even here throughout the debate . his leader , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , be miss in action — oh , he ' s turn up now . he come up with so many figure throughout this process , but he have finally turn up ; it be good to see he here . question be raise about the Chagossians , and I want to respond to they seriously because I recognise , as I have do , the very sincere feeling that be feel among different part of the chagossian community . we have hear a range of view express today by different member , and I acknowledge the Chagossians who be here in the Gallery . I understand many of they will not support this treaty , but other Chagossians and chagossian group do support it , as we have hear during the debate . but I repeat again for the record that the Government deeply regret the way Chagossians be remove from the island . we be commit to build a relationship that be build on respect and acknowledgment of the wrong of the past . the negotiation be between the UK and Mauritius , with our priority be to secure full operation of the base on Diego Garcia , but we will finance a new trust fund for Mauritius to use in support of the chagossian community . we will work to start a new programme of visit , include to Diego Garcia . of course , Mauritius will be able to develop a programme of resettlement on the island other than Diego Garcia . we will continue our support to Chagossians live in the UK through new and exist project . I hope the whole Committee can unite around this point . I pay tribute to the Chagossians in the United Kingdom for the contribution they make to the school in their community and to the catholic church where they live and , in my constituency , for their work at Wythenshawe hospital and Manchester airport — it be second to none . they be welcome here , and we value they very much , despite our political difference in this Chamber . I completely and wholeheartedly associate myself with those comment from my hon . friend . I know he have be a passionate advocate for Chagossians in the UK , and particularly in his constituency , over many year . we have speak about this matter many time , and I know he and other member speak passionately on the matter . will the Minister reply to the point make by the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) , myself and other that not in the last 100 year since the exchange of colony after the first world war have a people be transfer from the sovereignty of one empire to another without be properly consult ? the right hon . Member know that we regret what happen historically in relation to the Chagos Islands . he will also know that the island be not permanently inhabit . that be necessarily a negotiation between the United Kingdom and Mauritius . let I respond to the many point about the environment , on which many amendment be table . we be absolutely clear that the United Kingdom and Mauritius be commit to protect one of the world ' s most important marine environment . indeed , the Mauritian Prime Minister meet the former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , in the margin of the third United Nations ocean conference in Nice on 9 June , where he reaffirm his commitment to the creation of that marine protect area around the Chagos archipelago . that will be support by an enhance partnership with we . the treaty have be welcome by lead conservation NGOs , include the Zoological Society of London . we continue to work with Mauritius on the implementation of that measure . we be consider seriously the many genuine concern that right hon . and hon . member , include the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee and member of the Environmental Audit Committee , have raise . they be serious and important question , and I assure the Committee that we be take they seriously , and I will try to update the House on they in due course . I be grateful to the Minister for give way — he be be very generous . in 2017 , the clear position be that the International Court of Justice be not in a position to adjudicate on the relationship between we and a member of the Commonwealth . have that change , and , if so , when ? we have be very clear about the legal position and the legal risk . the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government know this ; it be why they start the process . I do not want to detain the Committee by go through all the argument that I make on second reading — [ interruption . ] but he know that we face the comprehensive rejection of our argument at the ICJ in 2019 , we lose vote at the UN General Assembly , we have the maritime delineation judgment bind on Mauritius and the Maldives — [ interruption . ] order . I will hear the Minister . thank you , Madam Chairman . the opposition ask question and then make so much noise — they do not even want to hear the answer . I have mention the obligation place on the BIOT Administration by UN body to cease specific activity . I have mention the series of procedural complication and blockage at international organisation , include the comprehensive nuclear - test - ban treaty . there be many example of clear risk . I have explain before the potential under annex VII of UNCLOS — Potential . the hon . Gentleman chunter " potential " , but be he willing to gamble with our national security ? be he willing to gamble on the operational effect ? [ interruption . ] oh , he be willing to gamble ! I find it absolutely extraordinary that he be willing to gamble with our national security and that of our ally . that be exactly why the United States and our five Eyes partner back this deal : it settle that debate . I will turn to the amendment . the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) table amendment 1 , 2 and 7 and new clause 2 on the publication of legal advice . she will know from her time in government that it be highly unusual for the Government to publish legal advice that they have obtain . that advice be privileged , and it be important that the Government be able to take frank and confidential advice , as she well know . in some circumstance , the Government may publish a statement of their legal position , as we do in the case of the Diego Garcia treaty , on the day it be sign . as I have repeatedly explain — member keep chuntere about it — if a long - term deal be not reach between the UK and Mauritius , it be highly likely that far wide - range litigation would be bring quickly by Mauritius against the UK . it might include , for example , further arbitral proceeding against the UK under annex VII of the UN convention on the law of the sea . a judgment would be bind on the UK . let I turn to amendment 11 and 14 . the hon . member for Clacton , who have finally turn up but be not even listen , table several amendment that appear to serve no function other than waste Government and parliamentary time . the public consultation propose in amendment 11 , and the impact assessment , would be needlessly costly and time - consume . they would only confirm the conclusion — on which he have no answer — already reach by our close ally , the United States , by the International Agreements Committee and the International Relations and Defence Committee , and by our five Eyes partner . the public already know that the treaty secure the future of the critical base on Diego Garcia . the strategic value have be debate at length and be well understand . we be not willing to gamble with our national security , even if the Member for Clacton be willing to . quite frankly , he have some gall to turn up after his comment on NATO and Russia — I find it quite extraordinary . in amendment 13 , the hon . member for Clacton offer an ill - conceive proposal that would keep Diego Garcia list as an overseas territory while accept that his Majesty the King would no long be sovereign . not only be that constitutionally inaccurate , but in the context of the British Nationality Act 1981 it would have serious consequence for the nationality right of Chagossians bear on different island in the archipelago . surely his intention can not be for individual bear on Diego Garcia to be treat differently from those bear on Peros Banhos or the Salomon Islands . amendment 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 , table by the right hon . member for Witham and amendment 8 table by the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) , seek to change or remove the statutory power to make an order in Council . it be , of course , absolutely right that Parliament should be able to scrutinise the use of power , which be why the Bill provide for the negative procedure to be use . the vast majority of change that the Government will make use that power will be technical and operational amendment on matter to ensure that our domestic law be consistent with the new status of Diego Garcia — those be matter as varied as police pension , copyright law , and change to student finance . the propose amendment would mean that the House would be oblige to spend valuable parliamentary time on each change to legislation for 99 year . member surely can not wish we to spend that amount of time on all those thing , and that approach be consistent with power take to amend exist legislation in previously comparable situation . new clause 1 , 11 , and 10 regard the prior approval of payment . I have set out clearly the cost , and the absolutely nonsensical figure that have be put forward by the Opposition and the hon . member for Clacton , and we wholly reject the new clause . it be entirely usual and proper for payment under international treaty to be make under the royal prerogative , and require a separate distinct vote before payment can be make would create unacceptable risk for the long - term sustainability of the treaty . without the certainty that the Bill and the treaty provide , the UK and US military would not be able to invest in vital capability . that would have major operational implication for the base . on new clause 11 table by the hon . member for Surrey Heath , the House of Commons will scrutinise our annual estimate in the usual way , and spend under the treaty will be include in that process . new clause 10 be not necessary either . new clause 3 , 4 and 9 be on the marine protect area . there be no requirement for the UK to consent to Mauritius establish such an area or to its management , and that would be inconsistent with the treaty . although the UK will be play a different role in respect of the future MPA , both the UK and Mauritius remain committed to protect that vital marine environment . that be why , under the term of the treaty , we will provide technical support and assistance to Mauritius , in accordance with a separate write instrument . we will not make any additional direct payment to Mauritius as part of that activity . on Chagossians and the right of self - determination , amendment 9 and 10 , and new clause 7 , 8 , 12 , 13 , and 14 concern the chagossian community , and I understand and share the strength of feeling on the wide subject , and the historical treatment of the chagossian community . that be why the Government have put the preservation of nationality right at the heart of the Bill . I be sympathetic to the concern put forward about resettlement . I understand the intention of amendment 9 , but it be not necessary . under the agreement we have already agree that Mauritius will be able to develop a programme of resettlement on island other than Diego Garcia — I refer the hon . member for Surrey Heath to comment from Olivier Bancoult and the Chagos Refugees Group . they have be clear that that be why they support this measure , and be urge we all to support the treaty . I also understand the question on consultation , but as I have say , those negotiation be between the UK and Mauritius . the island that make up BIOT do not have , and never have have , a settle population and have never be self - governing . no question of self - determination for a population therefore arise now . new clause 5 , 6 , 15 and 17 relate to national security issue , but they be simply not need because the treaty protect our national security and secure the base . we have maintain full operational control of Diego Garcia with all the necessary right and authority , as well as a series of additional protection . in closing , the Bill and the treaty have be thoroughly scrutinise — rise — no , I be not go to give way now . there have be plenty of debate and question , and plenty of discussion . the Government have provide all the information necessary for Parliament to hold we to account , include publish the full cost of the treaty and the legal rationale for the deal . the International Agreements Committee and the International Relations and Defence Committee have confirm their agreement that the Bill do what we have set out , and the Government do not take risk with our national security , as the Opposition or Reform would do . that have be our priority throughout . I reject the amendment and urge the passage of the Bill . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . amendment propose : 7 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1A ) the Treaty and section 2 to 4 of this Act do not come into force until the Secretary of State lay before Parliament a memorandum on the obligation under international law which require the UK to cede sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory to the Government of Mauritius . ( 1b ) the memorandum specify in subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) a summary of the legal advice receive by the UK Government on this issue ; ( b ) an analysis of the status of UK ' s sovereignty over the British Indian Ocean Territory under international law ; ( c ) the legal argument for the cessation of british sovereignty over the British Indian Ocean Territory ; and ( d ) the risk which the UK Government may have face have it not reach an agreement with the Government of Mauritius . ( 1C ) the report specify in subsection ( 1A ) and ( 1B ) must be lay before Parliament no later than two month after this Act receive Royal Assent . " — ( Priti Patel . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Reed Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Deirdre Costigan Stephen Morgan the Committee divide : Ayes 174 , Noes 321 . question accordingly negative . amendment propose : 9 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1A ) before section 2 to 4 of this Act come into force , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) seek to undertake negotiation with the Government of Mauritius on whether Mauritius will establish a right for chagossian to return and reside in the Chagos Islands ; and ( b ) seek agreement to a referendum for Chagossians on self - determination within any negotiation which take place under paragraph ( a ) ; and ( c ) lie before both Houses of Parliament a report on progress on establish negotiation with the Government of Mauritius and the outcome of any that take place . ( 1b ) within two month of the report be lay before the House of Commons under paragraph ( 1a ) , the Secretary of State must table a substantive motion in the House of Commons on the content of the report . " — ( Dr Pinkerton . ) this amendment require that the Government must undertake negotiation with Mauritius on a chagossian right of return and on a referendum , with a report lay before Parliament on the outcome of the negotiation . the Government must subsequently table a substantive motion in the House of Commons on the content of that report . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Seamus Logan James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Jesse Norman Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Z ö e Franklin Susan Murray Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Jesse Norman Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Julian Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Deirdre Costigan Stephen Morgan the Committee divide : Ayes 83 , Noes 319 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 - Dissolution of the British Indian Ocean Territory Question put , that the clause stand part of the Bill . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Deirdre Costigan Stephen Morgan Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew David Reed the Committee divide : Ayes 318 , Noes 174 . question accordingly agree to . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 3 to 6 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - approval of payment to Mauritius by the House of Commons " ( 1 ) no payment may be make by the Government of the United Kingdom to the Government of Mauritius under Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Treaty without the approval of the House of Commons . ( 2 ) no development framework under Article 11 ( 1 ) ( c ) may be agree by the Government of the United Kingdom with the Government of Mauritius without the approval of the House of Commons . ( 3 ) no payment may be make under any development framework agree between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of Mauritius without the approval of the House of Commons . ( 4 ) the approval require by subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) must be in the form of a resolution of the House of Commons . " — ( Priti Patel . ) this new clause require parliamentary approval for any payment by the UK Government to the Government of Mauritius under the Treaty . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Reed Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Deirdre Costigan Stephen Morgan the Committee divide : Ayes 172 , Noes 322 . question accordingly negative . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . in a world that be grow more dangerous , this Labour Government will always put Britain ' s security first , and if there be one thing that member should take away from today ' s debate , it be the absolute necessity of this Bill to secure the military base on Diego Garcia , which have play a critical role in defend the UK and our ally for over 50 year . both the treaty and the Bill guarantee the long - term , secure operation of our military base and ensure that it will continue protect our national security for generation to come . let I take this opportunity to thank member on both side of the House for their scrutiny of the Bill throughout its passage . I be grateful to those who contribute to the vigorous debate on Second Reading in September and to those who participate in today ' s Committee proceeding . I thank the International Agreements Committee and the International Relations and Defence Committee for their thorough inquiry into the substance of the treaty . in particular , I want to thank the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , for his tireless effort in guide the Bill through the House . I would also like to thank the official who work on the Bill and the treaty , both under this government and under the previous Government . lastly , I would like to express my sincere gratitude to our international ally , especially the United States , for their support throughout the treaty negotiation process . their backing be crucial in ensure that this treaty , in the word of the US Defence Secretary Hegseth , " secure the operational capability of the base … for many year ahead . " this treaty also recognise the importance of the island to the Chagossians . this government respect the diversity of view within the community , so we will continue to engage with the chagossian group over the come month and year . we have also commit to increase our support through new and exist project . the US , our five Eyes partner , India , Japan and the Republic of Korea have all support this deal . our adversary would have love to see this deal fail and the military base place under threat , but this Government be not risk our national security , as the Opposition party would claim we be . let I make it clear why we be here today . we inherit a set of negotiation start by the Conservatives . they choose to start negotiation to deliver what Lord Cameron say in January 2024 would be the " safety , security and long - term viability of this base " . the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) explain the objective at this very Dispatch Box . he also say they be to " secure an agreement on the basis of international law … to strengthen … cooperation " with Mauritius on " maritime security … the environment … and to tackle illegal migration " . — [ Official Report , 3 November 2022 ; Vol . 721 , c . 27ws . ] that be what this deal secure , and that be why I wish it a speedy and successful passage through the rest of its parliamentary proceeding . let we be absolutely clear : the Conservatives start the negotiation . they hold 11 round , but they fail to secure a deal . it be a question that not a single Tory MP want to answer today : why do they start these negotiation if it be so bad ? if it be such a threat to national security , why be it a Conservative Government who start the negotiation ? why do they hold 11 round ? it be a Labour Government who secure the deal ; it be a Labour Government who be go to secure the future of our military base , and that be why I commend the Bill to the House . let I begin my remark by once again pay tribute to the heroic chagossian community who have join we once again for this debate and have be here for a good four hour . in response to the Minister ' s last point — he may have hear we say this previously on Second Reading and during Opposition day debate — no deal be well than a terrible deal , and the conservative party would never have put this deal forward . throughout the process , the government — [ interruption . ] they can all make as much noise as they want on the Government bench . none of they be here — [ interruption . ] they can point their finger as much as they want ; none of they be sit here early to defend their Government on this terrible deal . let I come back to the chagossian community , because throughout this process , they have be silence and ignore by this Government , and they have face decade of pain and hurt . [ laughter . ] this be not a laugh matter at all . hon . member may want to sneer about this , but they should pay some respect to the chagossian people , because we praise they and be grateful to they for their dignified campaign . there be some member in this House , even on the Government Benches , who have Chagossians as their own constituent , who they have make representation on behalf of as well . I think we should thank they for the work that they have do . I also want to thank hon . member from across the House for their interest in this Bill and their diligent scrutiny . I say that because the Labour Government have seek to keep debate on their surrender treaty as short and restrict as possible , and we have see that again . [ interruption . ] they have not be here to contribute to those debate — what would they know ? I be particularly grateful for the effort of hon . member who have challenge and debate the Bill , include the interest in the Foreign Affairs Committee evidence session . opposition Members on the Environmental Audit Committee and the Science and Technology Committee spend valuable time in Select Committees — let I emphasise that : in Select Committees — scrutinise this treaty . opposition Members have be relentless and I thank they for their forensic questioning and for expose the scandalous way in which this Government have act . these debate have benefit from the legal expertise and knowledge of former Ministers and Law Officers , and I be thankful to they for their contribution and support . I also want to pay tribute to the Minister for the Overseas Territories , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) . he have be diligent in respond to questioning , and he have probably spend more time in the House debate this issue , as well as respond to write communication , than he originally expect . he have become the Minister for defend the indefensible . although we do disagree robustly on this treaty , we thank he and respect he for his contribution . let we be clear : this be a bad Bill for Britain ; the opposition will continue to oppose it , and our colleague in the other place will give it further scrutiny . it leave Britain weak and poor , it give succour to our enemy , and it have show the world that , under Labour , Britain be be govern by weak Ministers who appease the whim of left - wing lawyer and activist , rather than stand up for our national interest . friend and foe alike will now see Britain as a soft touch that can be bully by lawfare into wave the white flag of surrender , rather than proudly fly the Union flag . for Britain ' s stand in the world , for our defence and national security , and for our suffer british taxpayer , I bitterly regret the passage of this Bill . for month we have be call on Labour to step back from the brink and ditch this mind - boggle surrender deal , but this Government have arrogantly blunder on . Britain comprehensively lose in these negotiation , the treaty and the Bill that we have consider today as a result . minister have squirm and roll over at every turn and have be eat for breakfast by the Mauritian Government . let I be clear : we will oppose this Bill every step of the way in this House and in the other place . it be worth note that within week of come to power , this soft - touch Government decide that they would end more than 200 year of british sovereignty over this vital territory for our country ' s security and national interest , and for no justifiable reason . we be not just give up the island of the archipelago ; more than that , the national interest be be squander , and so be peace and stability in that area . the Government be ask british taxpayer , whom they have already thrash with vindictive taxis , now to shoulder the burden of this scandalous deal , and it be simply not on . labour government often bang on about the redistribution of wealth , but today they take it to a new level with the redistribution of wealth from Britain to Mauritius . how much of the money will be plunder from the Defence budget , hinder our armed force ' ability to procure new capability at the bad possible time ? it come as the Minister for Defence Procurement have oversee a freeze on procurement as the world get more dangerous , and we do know that the world be get more dangerous . the much - vaunted strategic defence review , which Labour pledge would see off all the major threat , be overdue and underfunded — but guess what ? labour have no plan to pay for it now . here we be now : the Government have find it within themselves to spend £ 35 billion on this deal . this be not just money from down the line in the future ; it be hundred of million of pound each year within this Parliament . today the Government have sink to a new low : labour mp have vote against give Parliament , this House , a say over send £ 35 billion of our constituent ' money to Mauritius with no string attach . Mauritius will now use our money to reduce its debt and cut taxis because of this Government . Labour mp have vote to block the publication of a summary of legal advice on which the Government rely to make this dodgy deal . we might have think that they have learn from the current China debacle that this be not the right way , but no , they still can not offer a sound legal explanation for why they have rush through this deal . the Government have refuse to adopt our amendment to ensure the monitoring of how the right of Chagossians will be safeguard . the Chagossians , to whom we have a special responsibility , have be neglect and ignore by Labour since the election , so it come as no surprise — and it be now a bitter blow for they — that there be no cost implication or , indeed , any good reason as to why we be go down this route . the Government have also decline to adopt our amendment to keep the Intelligence and Security Committee apprise of the security protection in this treaty , again deny hon . member the scrutiny to which we be entitle . it be astonishing , in the light of the national security concern that this terrible deal now bring , and it leave our country weak and poor . this be a deal that this Government and our country will come to regret . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it give I no pleasure to say that this Bill fail the chagossian people . for decade , decision about the Chagos Islands have be take without the consent of those most affected . the treaty continue that injustice , offer no guarantee right of return , no legally bind resettlement plan and no meaningful protection of chagossian right . the Liberal Democrats support negotiation with Mauritius and support respect for international law , but never at the expense of chagossian dignity . the treaty , as it stand , lack transparency , environmental safeguard and accountability for the substantial public expenditure that it entail . that be why we table seven amendment to inscribe parliamentary oversight , to protect the marine environment and to uphold chagossian right to self - determination . that include provision for scrutiny of ministerial decision , mandatory environmental reporting and a referendum of the chagossian people themselves . we also call for full financial transparency and a review of the welfare of Chagossians live in the UK , many of whom continue to face hardship as a direct result of their historical displacement . this be not merely a matter of geopolitical asset or territorial claim ; it be about justice , belong and moral responsibility to those who call the Chagos island home . I thank the Minister of State at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , for the numerous conversation that we have have during the passage of the Bill — he have be generous with his time . I be disappointed , however , that he do not feel able to accept some of my amendment and suggestion during that process . I will finish with word lift from the UN charter , a document that this country help to shape : " the Purposes of the United Nations be … to develop friendly relation among nation base on respect for the principle of equal right and self - determination of people " . that right have be deny to the chagossian people for more than 50 year , so I urge member across the House to think carefully when vote this evening about whether they wish to compound that half century of injustice or embrace the foundational principle of the UN . [ interruption . ] if this House wish to do the latter , we can not allow the Bill to pass without ensure that chagossian themselves be sovereign over their citizenship , the governance of their island and the prospect of return . [ hon . member : " how be you vote ? " ] I ask Conservative right hon . and hon . member on my right - hand side , who have laud the effort of the chagossian people but sit on their hand when they have the opportunity to give chagossian the right to a referendum , whether they wish to keep chuntere from a sedentary position . in direct response to the Minister , who challenge this in Committee , I say that the forced displacement of a people do not and can not annul the identity or the right of the Chagossians as a people . to suggest otherwise perpetuate the disgrace of the past and , as a sentiment , that be unworthy of this Bill and of this House . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Deirdre Costigan Stephen Morgan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Reed Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 320 , Noes 171 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . Petition - Grove Park Station I be pleased to be stand here this evening with this petition on behalf of my constituent . it state : " the petition of Grove Park station user " — and local resident and local business — " declare that the Station need improvement . " it be shameful that these improvement have not already take place . the petition therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the government to work with Southeastern Railway " to undertake long - await improvement , which include enhance accessibility , so that the station be accessible to everyone ; improve safety by instal bright light , well CCTV coverage and regular security patrol ; well shelter and seating ; and well access to toilet . local commuter deserve it . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of Grove Park station user , declare that the Station need improvement . the petitioner , therefore , request that the House of Commons urge the government to work with Southeastern Railway to institute the follow improvement : enhance accessibility : provide step - free access to all platform to ensure the station be accessible to everyone . Improved safety : install bright lighting , increase CCTV coverage , and ensure regular security patrol to deter crime and enhance passenger safety . well Shelter and Seating : upgrade the exist shelter to provide well protection from the element and install additional seating to accommodate waiting passenger . well access to toilet . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003119 ] A50 / A500 Corridor Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gregor Poynton . ) I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be grateful for the opportunity to raise the important issue of the A50 / a500 corridor , a route that be vital to our industry and people in both Staffordshire and the wide midland . may I welcome the new Minister to his portfolio ? I hope he have not already get earache from the amount of time I have mention this road to he already . the previous Roads Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , see the chaos of the road for herself , and the same pleasure await he if he wish to visit . this corridor be more than a road ; it connect our community , link our manufacturer to market and sustain thousand of job across the midland . every day , more than 60 , 000 vehicle travel along it , move people , good and opportunity between Derby , Uttoxeter , Stoke - on - Trent and the M1 and M6 . it be a route that serve some of Britain ' s well - know business , include JCB , Toyota and Rolls - Royce , lead university and tourist attraction such as Alton Towers . the A50 / a500 growth corridor offer massive potential for growth . in my constituency , I have junction 15 of the M6 and the Sideway roundabout , which join the a500 with the A50 before it go on through the Meir tunnel and towards Uttoxeter . it be often congest , but it be a vital part of the supply chain for the advanced manufacturing corridor . do my right hon . friend — [ interruption . ] sorry , I have promote he . do my hon . friend agree that it be really important that we start invest in improvement on this part of the road network ? I absolutely agree . my hon . friend have be a great champion for improvement alongside I . congestion around Uttoxeter , Blythe Bridge and Sudbury undermine productivity and growth and turn commute into nightmare . queue stretch for mile at peak hour , average speed fall below 20 mph and local road bear the pressure of divert traffic . my constituent experience that on a daily basis . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important Adjournment debate . I be recently contact by a constituent who regularly travel between Castle Donington and Littleover . they say that every evening last year , the A50 be either close or restrict , or the access slip road be closed . do my hon . friend agree that everything possible need to be do to improve this part of the vital network for the east midland as well as his constituency ? my hon . friend have make the case that this investment would benefit not just the people of Staffordshire , but the people of east Staffordshire and the wide midland . I hope that the Government will commit to the A50 / a500 be part of the next road investment strategy in March 2026 . the Treasury have already set aside £ 24 billion of capital funding for that programme , and my purpose this evening be clear : to ensure that the A50 / A500 be place within that document , and that the Department for Transport commit to fund the next stage of upgrade through RIS3 . midland Connect , which have lead the technical work on this route , have produce powerful evidence of what those upgrade could achieve . its late assessment show that by 2031 , improvement along the A50 could create more than 2 , 000 job across Staffordshire and generate £ 116 million for the local economy . the point have be make that constituent get stick try to get to high - quality , well - pay job along the A50 corridor . I have resident in Kidsgrove , Mill Hill and Talke who regularly commute to the like of JCB . do my hon . friend agree that the benefit of a well road connection would be feel not only in his constituency of Burton and Uttoxeter , but much far afield across neighbouring constituency ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there will be a £ 24 million benefit to Stoke - on - Trent , a £ 30 million boost to Uttoxeter and east Staffordshire , and an £ 11 million benefit to Newcastle - under - Lyme , which demonstrate the importance of invest in this corridor . will the hon . member give way ? I will . I call Jim Shannon , on the subject of the A50 / a500 corridor . I congratulate the hon . member on bring this debate before the House . he be an assiduous member , and he be do extremely well in bring forward his constituent ' issue . do he agree that the Government must also look at the impact that long - term work will have on the motorist who rely on this road and , in particular , the emergency service ? do he agree that if any improvement be to happen , proper consideration must be give to the impact they will have on the day - to - day life of the hundred of his constituent who rely on this road daily , whether for employment or education , or , indeed , at time of emergency ? I be not sure whether the people of Northern Ireland use the A50 , but I be grateful for that intervention . I be go to come on to safety concern , which be a key part of this debate . we have the full backing of 50 local business leader and the Staffordshire chamber of commerce , who write with I to the Chancellor to urge investment in this vital corridor . that be a clear demonstration of the support we have from the business community . I thank my hon . friend or right hon . friend — sorry , my right good friend — and neighbouring MP for give way . he have mention the Staffordshire chamber of commerce , which be so excited to see these investment happen . at the corridor ' s close point to my constituency be one of the roundabout in Uttoxeter that get so snarl up — it be just 4 mile away . improve these road will affect not just constituency along the corridor , but those adjacent to it and far afield . do my hon . friend agree that investment in this road be not just an investment in get to and from place fast , but an investment in real , good , high - quality , unionised job ? absolutely , and if we see that investment , we can create even more job . midland connect ' s long - term vision go far by predict 17 , 000 new job and £ 12 billion of add economic output for the region over the next 60 year . that investment will also support the delivery of 30 , 000 new home . the corridor play a vital strategic role in link the east midland freeport to the rest of the country , and with the expansion of junction 24 of the M1 — which be be champion by east midland mayor Claire Ward and east midland Labour mp — we can turbocharge that growth . however , this be not just about economic ; it be also about safety . at the McDonald ' s roundabout in Uttoxeter — a location that thousand of my constituent use every day — there have be a series of tragic and fatal accident . only recently , we see another serious collision during the morning rush hour that cause chaos across the town . each incident be a reminder that we must act with urgency . the current pedestrian crossing on the Uttoxeter roundabout force pedestrian to cross multiple busy lane of fast - move traffic . it be unsafe and unsustainable . safety improvement must sit alongside wide upgrade to the corridor . every serious accident lead to delay for haulier , lose hour for commuter , and disruption for the emergency service . safe design will save life , as well as keep we move . while many mp might be lobby the Department for road upgrade after decade of under - investment , few will have a strong case than the A50 / 500 . if we want to deliver economic growth , make commute easy , create thousand of job , back business to succeed , build more house and well connect our community , we should invest in the A50 / 500 . these upgrade be back cross - party , cross - county and cross - region , because we can all see the benefit . the spending review have provide the cash , the analysis have provide the evidence , and our community have make their case — what we now need be the political will to deliver . I therefore urge the Minister to confirm that the A50 / 500 corridor will be consider a key priority in the preparation of RIS3 and that work will now begin on that detailed business case . the midland have be hold back for too long . this government be already reverse that decline , but we can go far . my constituent and our business be first promise these upgrade in 2008 by a bloke call George Osborne , when he be shadow Chancellor . the Tories never deliver , and we be still wait . this Labour Government can be the difference . I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) on secure this debate and for speak so passionately about transport in his constituency and the implication for the wide region . I be grateful for the opportunity to discuss transport in the region today . I assure my hon . friend that this Government understand the significance and importance of transport to the people , community and business that power local economy across the country . I have be interested to engage with the ambitious proposal for development along the A50 and a500 . these road link Stoke - on - Trent , Uttoxeter , Burton upon Trent and Derby — all area with rich history of industry and manufacturing , but also home to exciting innovation . I gently point out to the Minister that there be not just a rich history of manufacturing and industry , but potentially a rich future , too . we be still an area of the country that make many thing , whether that be high - tech agricultural machinery at JCB or fine porcelain ceramic in the city of Stoke - on - Trent . the road and infrastructure that come with that could be the growth point for north Staffordshire , which would help deliver on the Government ' s economic agenda and allow the infrastructure to develop to build the home that we need . it be win , win , win , if the Minister can confirm that we can have the upgrade we need . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . the area be also home to exciting innovation , new technology and advanced manufacturing . this government absolutely understand the importance of such route to our daily life , and they be core to key Government priority such as kick - start the economy , deliver housing growth and tackle regional inequality . in that context , while the A50 near Uttoxeter remain the specific focus of today ' s debate , it would be remiss of I not to take the opportunity to highlight how the quality of journey and transport across Staffordshire have be and be be improve . this Government be commit to restore pride and trust in our transport system , which work day in , day out for those who rely on it . June ' s spending review confirm £ 2 . 3 billion of investment in local transport through the local transport grant . Staffordshire county council will receive a total local transport grant capital allocation of £ 92 . 98 million between 2026 - 27 and 2029 - 30 . in addition , Staffordshire will also receive £ 3 . 39 million in local transport grant resource funding . that vital funding will help build local capability and capacity to develop and update local transport plan , to effectively deliver local transport infrastructure priority , and to work with regional partner to progress regional priority . England ' s road be a vital part of our transport system . car remain by far the most popular form of transport . this Government be dedicate to maintain and renew our road network to ensure it continue to serve all road user . it be why we be committed to long - term programme of investment to improve road link throughout the region and to facilitate the growth and development that this nation need , and it be why local area such as Staffordshire have benefit from the £ 1 . 6 billion record investment in road maintenance funding for the 2025 - 26 financial year . this mark a £ 500 million increase in funding , and Staffordshire will be eligible to receive £ 39 . 4 million . build on that , we will provide £ 24 billion of capital funding between 2026 - 27 and 2029 - 30 to maintain and improve our motorway and local road across the country . this funding increase will allow National Highways and local authority , like Staffordshire , to invest in significantly improve the long - term condition of England ' s road network , deliver fast , safe and more reliable journey . as for the specific issue of the proposal for development on the central section of the A50 near Uttoxeter , I acknowledge the difficult challenge that congestion and uncertain journey time on key route may cause for business and commuter , as well as the potential impact that this may have on growth , investment and employment . we recognise that the strategic road network play a vital role in daily life . through our growth mission we will rebuild Britain , deliver new home and the critical infrastructure that underpin economic growth . in August the Department for Transport publish its draft road investment strategy , which set out the Government ' s strategic objective and include just under £ 25 billion of indicative funding for the operation , maintenance and renewal of our strategic road network and for the RIS3 period cover the period from 2026 to 2031 . as part of the road investment strategy , the Department continue to consider improvement to the central section of the A50 near Uttoxeter , as well as junction 15 of the m6 , as part of the pipeline of project be develop for possible delivery in a future road investment strategy . I know that my hon . friend have engage extensively with official from my Department , and with National Highways , on these matter for some time , passionately outline the case for investment . National Highways be committed to continue to develop these proposal , and , subject to a supportive business case , they will be consider for delivery within RIS4 , beyond 2031 — or late in RIS3 , if funding become available . I thank the Minister for be so generous in give way . thirteen year ago , when I be leader of the local authority in Newcastle , I join the Stoke - on - Trent and staffordshire local enterprise partnership board . this project be on the book then . the sclerotic nature of the last Government mean that it have not progress at all , and I hate to think what investment have be lose . while I welcome the commitment that the Minister be make to future potential , will he at least recognise that we could be talk about 20 year after this be first raise by member who be in the House today ? we need a relatively swift conclusion of effort so that we at least know which project we can green - light around the area for the job , the growth and the home that we need . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . National Highways will work closely with regional partner to consider the opportunity along the corridor as part of this process . let I end by thank my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter for secure the debate . as I know he appreciate , transport play a central role in life and livelihood across the country , include his constituency and the wide midland . today he have highlight several important issue relate to Uttoxeter in particular . I want to reassure the House that the Government be provide record level of investment in road , rail , bus and active travel project across the country to connect people with job , education and opportunity . I also want to reassure my hon . friend that the Government have hear the case clearly , and will continue to take action to address the issue debate today . question put and agree to . House adjourn .