Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Knife Crime what step he be take to tackle knife crime in Greater Manchester . what step he be take to tackle knife crime in Bournemouth . as we have say often in debate this House , knife crime be a terrible crime ; it tear family apart and all too often take young people from we . as the House will know , violent crime overall have reduce by 51 % since 2010 , but there be more we can do . that include funding violence reduction unit — Manchester ' s VRU have £ 20 million of funding for the come financial year — and run hotspot police in area where serious violence and antisocial behaviour be a problem . the £ 66 million of funding for that across England and Wales be in addition to the exist police funding settlement . in September 2021 , my constituent Rhamero West be chase across Manchester , stab and kill — he be just 16 . his mum , Kelly , have work tirelessly to make sure that no other family have to face the suffering she and her family have face , include by raise money to fund a network of bleed kit across Greater Manchester and a youth project in Fallowfield . she want to tell Rhamero ' s story to help save other young life , so will the Minister agree to meet she ? yes , of course . it sound as though the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be campaign bravely , as so many parent do , to try to bring some good out of a terrible personal tragedy , so I would be delighted to meet he and his constituent . may I quickly put on record my thank to the Security Minister and the Policing Minister for their effort in upgrade MPs ' security ? across the UK , ever more young people be choose to carry knife . sadly , that be the case in Bournemouth as well . violence reduction unit be dedicate police unit that have a prove track record of reduce knife crime in town centre in other part of the country , not just through increase policing , but by work in the community , include at school , to educate youngster on the danger of carry a knife . I be grateful for the increase in police number in Dorset , but will the Minister ask the Chancellor to see whether extra fund can be provide specifically for a VRU for Bournemouth ? I will convey my right hon . friend ' s request to the Chancellor , and I put on record my thank for his tireless campaigning and that of other Dorset mps for resource for that county and its police force . dorset police will receive about £ 11 million more next year than it receive the previous year . thank to the campaigning of my right hon . friend and other Dorset mps , it also receive an exceptional special grant last year of £ 600 , 000 to help campaign against violence . my right hon . friend be right to say that violence reduction unit have a very positive effect . in the next financial year , £ 55 million will be spend on they for the 20 police force area judge to have the most significant violence problem . dorset be not among those 20 , but I will pass his message to the Chancellor and I know that through our work with the police and crime commissioner , Dorset police and the pcc will do everything they can to combat knife crime not just in Bournemouth , but in Dorset as a whole . I call the shadow Minister . with incident up by 70 % since 2015 , the public be look for leadership on knife crime . early this month , the Government would not support our plan , which include broaden the ban on zombie knife to include ninja sword ; an end - to - end review of online sale ; and criminal penalty for tech exec who allow their platform to be use for illicit sale . the Government reject our plan , but what they have in place simply be not work , so we will push again during the remain stage of the Criminal Justice Bill . will they accept it then ? the shadow Minister should be aware that accord to the crime survey of England and Wales — the only reliable long - term indicator for volume crime trend , accord to the Office for National Statistics — violent crime be down by 51 % since 2010 . he ask about online knife sale . he should be aware that when the Online Safety Act 2023 be fully in force , very strong action will be take , for example against online marketplace , and the illegal sale of knife online will become a priority offence under schedule 7 . he will also know that we be bring forward legislation to ban a range of machete and zombie - style knife . we define they in relation to the feature they have . for example , knife over 7 inch in length with two cut edge and serration will be ban . those be just some of the measure we be take , all of which have help to bring down violent crime by 51 % since 2010 . police Homelessness and Rough sleeping what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the Criminal Justice Bill on police homelessness and rough sleeping . the Government be commit to end rough sleeping . huge amount of money be be invest in get people off the street . rough sleeping level in England be 35 % low than they be in 2017 . criminal sanction where rough sleeping be cause a problem , for example for business , be very much the last resort in the Criminal Justice Bill . the first resort be give people the support they need to find accommodation . as I walk here today , I pass several rough sleeper in doorway and in tent . the police already have the ability to move rough sleeper on under a number of different piece of legislation , include the Public Order Act 1986 , the Anti - Social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 and the Highways Act 1980 . do the Minister understand my concern that what be suggest in the Criminal Justice Bill criminalise rough sleeper and do nothing to help they ? the police already have the power but be fail to use they . the power in the piece of legislation my hon . friend list be not precisely the same as those in the Criminal Justice Bill . the Bill do not criminalise rough sleeping in general ; it criminalise particular type of rough sleeping when it cause a nuisance . that say , as I have signal privately to various hon . member , include my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , the Government be willing to look at the way those provision be draft , to ensure that they be tightly and narrowly draw , because out intention be that the first stop will always be to offer support . criminal sanction be appropriate only as a last resort if rough sleeping cause a serious problem , for example for business . as draft , the Bill be a new vagrancy Act with bell on . rough sleeping be up 75 % since 2010 . rather than criminalise people who happen to be rough sleeping , should we not provide support and build the house they need ? as I say , my colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be provide extremely comprehensive package of support . rough sleeping be down by 35 % since 2017 and by 28 % since before the pandemic in 2019 . the Government be willing to look at change to make these provision tightly define and narrow . the intention be to use criminal sanction only as a last resort where rough sleeping be disrupt a business , for example , and prevent it from operate . it be a last resort — the first resort will always be offer help and support . Legal Migration what step he be take to reduce level of legal migration . what step he be take to reduce level of legal migration . on 4 December , the Government announce a package of new measure to far reduce net migration , include but not limit to stop overseas care worker bring family dependant , increase the salary threshold for skilled worker visa to £ 38 , 700 and raise the minimum income requirement for family visa in stage to £ 38 , 700 . the change be be introduce gradually from early 2024 and be not retrospective . I welcome the measure take to reduce abuse of the immigration system , but I also recognise the need to exempt critical occupation where we have a specific shortage from the new minimum salary , for example health and care worker . however , in the Migration Advisory Committee ' s interim review of the immigration salary list , publish on Friday , several occupation have be remove because a discount salary of around £ 31 , 000 be well above the go rate for such occupation . give the vital and grow importance of food security across the country , will my hon . friend commit to a review of those occupation which , although not the high tech or highest pay job in our economy , be none the less critical for our food sector and our rural and coastal community ? there be no strong advocate for the fishing industry in this House than my hon . friend . he will appreciate that we have receive that return from the MAC . we will look very carefully at its recommendation , but my hon . friend know that as a government we have be consistently flexible in respond to the need of the fishing sector . I would argue that there be more we can do to promote domestic employment , but let I take this matter away and consider his representation . a key issue often raise by my constituent be the desire to see a dramatic reduction in legal migration . bear in mind that the opposition appear to have no plan in that regard , can my hon . friend reassure I that he will look at new way to stop this migration , that he will make sure that everybody have the right to work in this country and that we will not decrease wage by bring in cheap labour from abroad ? my hon . friend be very supportive of the holistic approach that the Government be take on this issue . the measure that we have announce and be take forward will reduce the inflow by 300 , 000 . it be important to consider this against the back to work plan that the Department for Work and Pensions be deliver to encourage more people to take on these role domestically . she should be absolutely certain that we as a Government will deliver on these measure and will continue to keep they under review to see whether we can go far . that stand in stark contrast to those on the Opposition Front Bench , who have no plan at all . to cut a long story short , a constituent ' s skilled work visa application be mistakenly withdraw by the Home Office . the error have result in he no long have the right to work in the UK , force he and his wife to leave their job . his wife be five month pregnant and , although they pay their NHS surcharge , the Home Office error mean that they be again get healthcare bill . the situation be increasingly desperate , so I ask the Minister to meet I to look into this case and ensure that this Home Office error do not do any more harm than it already have for this young couple . the hon . Lady will appreciate that I do not have the specific of the case to hand , but if she kindly share they with I , I will look into the case as a matter of urgency . I hope the Minister will take this opportunity to recognise that the right to claim asylum be allow under international law and that , therefore , there be no such thing as an illegal asylum seeker . on that basis , perhaps he can tell we whether he or any Minister have meet people with live experience of the system and whether he will meet the people at the Maryhill Integration Network in Glasgow North to discuss these issue . the hon . Member will recognise that , in an answer to one of his hon . friend , I say that I would be willing to meet he and his Glasgow colleague to discuss some of the challenge . I have make an undertaking to he that that meeting will happen , and I will make sure that it happen at the early possible opportunity . I be keen to understand what the challenge be and to make sure that the support that we be provide to help facilitate move - ons , for example , be meet the need that exist . I call the shadow Minister . since our last Home Office question , the list of Government failure on immigration have continue to grow relentlessly : 30 , 000 asylum seeker stick in limbo , unable to be process due to the Prime Minister ' s legislative fiasco ; 250 visa award to a care home that do not actually exist ; net migration treble ; and criminal free to fly into our country undetected on private jet . have just sack the independent inspector of border and immigration , be the Home Secretary sit on 15 different report by the inspector because he be check for typo , or be it because he be utterly terrified of what those report will tell we about this Government ' s shambolic and fail immigration system ? let I answer that point very directly : have give proper consideration to those report , we will be respond to they . as I say in the House last week , we will do so very soon . the shadow Minister mention the Government try to dodge scrutiny . when it come to the general aviation report , for example , it be our official who ask the inspector to take it forward . far from dodge scrutiny , we have invite it in that area . we will respond properly and thoroughly to that report in exactly the way that I undertake to do last week . I call the SNP spokesperson . People who come here to work , study and live make a significant impact on Scotland ' s economy and society , so reduce their number be entirely self - defeat . Reunite Families UK have highlight the disproportionate impact that Tory change to visa income threshold will have on woman . I have ask the Minister this before , and I have yet to have an answer : when will he publish the full equality impact assessment on this damaging policy ? we will publish the equality impact assessment associate with the policy in due course . the hon . Lady will appreciate that the Government ' s position be clear that the current level of net migration be not sustainable . we need to take forward a set of policy measure that deal with that and that promote domestic employment wherever possible . there be a strong moral case for the approach that we be take . none of the measure be apply be retrospective , but we be convinced that this be the right thing to do . the british people think that action be need , and action be what they be get . I spend a lot of time this weekend with member of the Glasgow branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain , which put on a major demonstration and a service in Glasgow cathedral at the weekend to mark two year since the escalation of russian aggression in Ukraine . the Government ' s change to the Ukraine scheme come with very little notice and cause a great deal of uncertainty and distress in that community . will the Minister tell I whether , for example , a wife whose husband have be injure fight on the frontline against Putin ' s war machine will be able to sponsor her husband to come here under these restrict rule ? as we say when we debate this issue in the House last week , the Government be very proud of the amazing response from people across this country who have open their home to ukrainian refugee . there will continue to be an out - of - country route through the Homes for Ukraine scheme to facilitate people be able to come here from Ukraine . ukrainian refugee here in the UK will be able to extend their visa . we give that certainty way ahead of the curve , when compare with our international partner . ukrainian national who would have qualify under the Ukraine family scheme will still be able to apply under home for Ukraine . transnational repression by Hostile States what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of step take by his Department to tackle transnational repression by hostile state . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . she be aware that the Government be continually assess the potential threat to individual right and freedom and to safety across the United Kingdom . I thank she for the effort she make to represent her view to I in a different forum . whenever we identify such threat , we will always use every measure at our disposal , include our intelligence service , to mitigate any threat to individual . in the first instance , I urge anyone concerned for their safety to contact the police . the hon . Lady will no doubt be aware that the National Security Act 2023 include measure to tackle foreign interference , include transnational repression . the defend democracy taskforce be review the UK ' s response to develop our understanding of the issue and ensure a system - wide response . transnational repression to silence dissent in democracy be extremely serious . in recent month , five Eyes nation have raise concern about the action of agent with link to India target Sikh activist in the United Kingdom . most disturbingly , there have be allege assassination and foiled assassination plot . the US and canadian authority have take the lead at senior level to publicly call out this challenge to their sovereignty , the rule of law and their democratic value . give the report of british Sikhs face similar threat , what step be the Government take to secure their safety ? will the Minister show the same strength as our partner do in publicly defend their democratic right ? let I be completely clear : if there be any specific threat against any british citizen by any foreign power , we will take immediate action . the Sikh community should be as safe as every other community in the United Kingdom . all british citizen be equal , whatever their colour , creed , faith or political allegiance . the reality be that we have take all the action we believe be appropriate at this stage . we of course maintain a very close relationship with our five Eyes partner , and we be absolutely clear that if the situation change and we need to take action , we will do so . Russia ' s deadly poison attack in Salisbury , Iran ' s intimidation of Iran international journalist and China ' s secret police station have long show the need for a robust strategy to counter transnational repression on british soil . the Minister mention that a review be under way into the UK ' s approach to transnational repression . when will it be publish , and will it be part of a wide strategy to counter hostile state activity in this country ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the review be under way , and it include many different element from community from around the world who be now settle happily in the United Kingdom . he will understand why I will not go into individual detail . certain community have be target , such as the Hong Kong chinese community , which be now very welcome in the United Kingdom under a policy that this Government introduce — I be very proud of the number who have claim asylum and take the opportunity as british national overseas to settle here — and we be look at other . we be open to any report of transnational repression , and we be listen . Violent Crime : young People what step his Department be take to identify young people most at risk of be draw into violent crime . what step his Department be take to identify young people most at risk of be draw into violent crime . since 2019 , we have invest £ 160 million in 20 violence reduction unit across England and Wales , and a furth £ 55 million have be commit this year . violence reduction unit have reach more than 270 , 000 young people . they bring together specialist from health , the police , local government and community organisation not just to tackle violent crime , but to identify the young people who be most at risk of be draw into it and provide evidence - base intervention to support they . I be grateful for that answer . child as young as 12 be be recruit by local drug dealer in the central ward of Stockton , and be provide with pocket money — huge sum for they — to carry and deliver class a and class b drug . many of they be in thrall to their balaclava - wear controller , who largely act with impunity . although the police and other agency work hard to combat such organise crime , Cleveland have the high crime rate in the country , and police and council do not have the fair funding need to deal with criminal or provide good diversionary activity for those vulnerable young people . what will the Minister do to sort that out ? I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that , under our tackle organise exploitation programme , we be keenly aware of the difference between victim and criminal , and that child be be draw into criminal enterprise and gang at ever - young age . I want to provide reassurance that where we have evidence of that happen , the child should be refer through the national referral mechanism — the framework for identify victim of exploitation by county line group and equivalent . that can be do with or without the child ' s consent , and it provide the police with a vital tool not just to protect the child but to disrupt the criminal activity in which they be be enlist . last week , Bedfordshire police report that two drug dealer who have traffic a vulnerable 15 - year - old child from Luton to sell drug be sentence under modern slavery law . although that conviction be of course welcome , I think we can all agree that this be not just slavery ; it be the despicable act of groom child into a life of drug , gang and violence . why do not the Government back our plan for a new specific offence to lock up such criminal for exactly what they be do and stop they exploit child and young people for a life of crime ? I agree with much of what the hon . Lady say . the Prime Minister implement new measure to deal with child sexual exploitation in April of last year , but part of that deal with organised exploitation , which go wider . I be glad to hear that those two criminal be convict under modern slavery law . I want to reassure she that , under our Criminal Justice Bill , which be make its way through the House , groom gang will receive enhanced sentence . it be deeply disturbing when child and young people be involve in violent crime . experience from around the world show that a whole - of - Government approach be crucial in tackle the problem , as have be acknowledge in successive government strategy . will the Minister give we an update on how the Government be ensure that that be deliver ? if I have understand my right hon . friend ' s question correctly , I can tell she that we be do a huge amount on child exploitation . only last week , we implement the no . 1 recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , for mandatory reporting , and we have more to come . this remain a Government priority . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister say that the Government be do load , but since 2018 there have be a huge increase in the number of weapon seize in school in some area of the country , with knife and taser find in some instance . our young people continue to bear the brunt of the Tories ' decision to hollow out youth service and prevention work in our community . meanwhile , ninja sword and other weapon remain just a google search away . parent should not fear for their child ' s safety at school . when will the Government match labour ' s ambition for a Young Futures programme and prioritise the safety and opportunity of our young people ? I make no apology for the success of our violence reduction unit and the difference that they have make to young people ' s life since 2019 . my right hon . friend the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire make the point that the crime survey for England and Wales show that there have be a 51 % fall in violent crime since 2010 . More than that , our violence reduction unit , work in conjunction with our Grip hotspot policing , have deliver a statistically significant fall in violent injury . hospital admission for knife crime and equivalent have fall by 25 % since 2019 , and overall knife crime have fall nationally by 5 % since 2019 , all in the life in this Parliament . we have ban zombie knife and cyclone knife , and our Criminal Justice Bill will give the police more power to make pre - emptive seizure . Police Bail Curfew Conditions what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of level of compliance with post - charge police bail curfew condition . decision on bail condition be set , enforce and monitor locally , but it be very important that where police bail condition be set down , they be adhere to , in order to protect the public . three member of my constituent ' s family be kill in an appalling dangerous driving case . the offender be on police bail at the time , with curfew condition , for a separate offence . give that legislation do not allow for tag in such case to enforce those curfew condition , will my right hon . friend consider bring forward change to the law so that electronic monitoring can be use for offender release on post - charge police bail ? my hon . friend raise a very important point , inform by a tragic case in his own constituency . he be right that , as it stand , the legislation do not allow for tagging of people who be simply on police bail — that be to say , before their first appearance in court . there be some consideration to do with whether tagging constitute a form of punishment and whether that be appropriate prior to a court hearing . however , my hon . friend raise a reasonable point inform by a constituency case , and I be happy to take it away and look at it with he . I thank the Minister very much for that response . obviously , with a renewed and reinvigorated Northern Ireland Assembly and a Minister in place , we in Northern Ireland be very keen to work alongside the Minister on some of the suggestion he have refer to . will he contact the policing and justice Minister in the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that what be go to happen here can happen to we in Northern Ireland , and that we can all gain the advantage ? I thank the hon . member for his question . it be , of course , very good news that the Northern Ireland Assembly and Executive have be restore . policing be devolve , so the Assembly and Executive can set their own policy . however , if they would like any information about the policy we be pursue in the England and Wales jurisdiction , I would be very happy to share that information and work constructively and collaboratively with all the devolved administration , include in Northern Ireland . local Policing what recent discussion he have have with chief constable on deliver policing at a local level . we have very regular discussion with chief constable across the country about local policing — in fact , just this morning I have a discussion with the chief constable of Staffordshire Police about some local policing issue in that county . it be a dialogue that happen on a regular and ongoing basis . police chief constable be , of course , operationally independent , but we work very closely in partnership with they . Leighton Buzzard , Dunstable and Houghton Regis be the third , fourth and fifth large town in Bedfordshire , yet they have a fraction of the police officer that be base in Luton and Bedford . will the Minister speak to the chief constable to ensure that we get a fairer allocation of the record number of police officer we have in Bedfordshire , spread across the county and with a 24 / 7 first responder presence ? my hon . friend be a doughty champion for his part of Bedfordshire . he be quite right to say that Bedfordshire , in common with many other part of the country — and indeed with England and Wales as a whole — have a record number of police officer . in the case of Bedfordshire , the number be 1 , 456 , and across England and Wales as a whole we now have over 149 , 000 officer : that be more than we have ever have before , and over 3 , 000 more than we have under the last Labour Government . I speak regularly to Chief Constable Trevor Rodenhurst and the excellent police and crime commissioner in Bedfordshire , Festus Akinbusoye . of course , how they deploy their record headcount be a matter for they , rather than for Government , but I will certainly mention the issue that my hon . friend have raise when I next speak to they — I think we be have a meeting quite shortly — and I know that my hon . friend will mention these issue as well . at the weekend I have to seek extra police support , due to the far - right abuse that I have suffer , which have be inspire and unleash in part by the conspiracy theory and racist , Islamophobic , anti - muslim hate peddle by the Members for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) and for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . [ interruption . ] order . you can not name member . it be peddle by member of the Government party . do the Minister agree that there be no place in this House or society for such divisive language ? one Member have have the Whip remove . do the Minister agree that other member should also have the Whip remove , or do he agree with the point that be make ? this House as a whole should be clear that hatred base on religion or race have no part in a civilised country , whether it be direct towards the jewish community , who have suffer a surge in antisemitism , or the muslim community . the conservative party be prepared to act extremely quickly , as we do at the weekend — a great deal fast than the Labour party when it have an issue in Rochdale . I be pleased that the Minister make reference to his meeting with the chief constable of Staffordshire Police after a disgusting hate mob appear outside a Stoke - on - Trent conservative fundraiser on Friday . it appear that a police officer allow member of the public , who be spew their hatred , into the venue ' s private function room , where they seek to intimidate , harass and bully member old and young — some as young as 11 year old . one individual involve use to be a member of the now proscribe terrorist organisation Hizb ut - Tahrir . be it not about time that we in this House stand up — because , I be sorry , Mr Speaker , but the action of last week embolden these individual to take such action — and say with a clear voice that democracy will not be subdue in this way ? yes , that be important . we make it clear in this House that Members of Parliament , elect councillor or anyone engage in political activity , include attend political event , should be able to do so without intimidation and without harassment . no one in this House should feel that they have to change their vote , or change procedure , as a result of external pressure . what happen in Stoke city on Friday evening be completely unacceptable . a political meeting be disrupt , and indeed close down by protest . that be unacceptable . this morning , I meet the chief constable and the police and crime commissioner of Staffordshire to make that clear . I also speak this morning to the chair of the National Police Chiefs ' Council , Chief Constable Gavin Stephens , to make the same point . I be pleased to report to the House that four people have now be arrest in relation to the incident in Stoke city — [ interruption . ] — on charge under section 4A of the Public Order Act 1986 and section 68 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 — order . sorry , Minister , but we can not both be stand at the same time . have the Minister have a chance recently to talk to the conservative police and crime commissioner for Devon and Cornwall Police , which have be in special measure since 2022 , and be now be sue by seven former and serve woman police officer for fail to deal with rape , emotional abuse and beating over a number of year ? what can he do to reassure the public in Devon and Cornwall that these allegation will be thoroughly independently investigate and any wrongdoing act on ? of course , we have the Independent Office for Police Conduct to make sure that there be an independent body available to investigate serious allegation about police force or their conduct of particular investigation . on the Engage process , the chief inspector of constabulary chair regular meeting of the police performance oversight group , where force in Engage be look at and oversee . Devon and Cornwall be one of those force , along with the West Midlands and London . local policing be really important . I have have some good news from my police and crime commissioner , Alison Hernandez , which be that Liskeard be to have a new police inquiry office . would my right hon . friend join I in welcome this , and will he look at what further funding be available for this to happen in other town ? I pay tribute to the excellent police and crime commissioner , Alison Hernandez , for the work that she have do to get the Liskeard centre open , and of course I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her tireless work campaign on behalf of Devon and Cornwall Police . Devon and Cornwall Police now have 3 , 718 officer , which be a record , and next year it will be receive £ 28 million more funding compare with the current financial year , provide plenty of money to invest in service , as my hon . Friend quite rightly request . thank you , Mr Speaker , for everything you do to keep member of Parliament safe . I know that so much of it go unseen . I know , from talk to resident in Hull West and Hessle , that they be deeply concerned about the rise in antisocial behaviour . antisocial behaviour be not trivial ; it have a huge impact on neighbourhood and on the mental health of the people subject to it . so why be the Government fail to take it seriously ? with great respect , that be complete nonsense . the Government publish an antisocial behaviour action plan just last year . from April of this year , in just a couple of month ' time , every single police area in England and Wales will have funding — £ 66 million in total — to run hotspot patrol in area where there be antisocial behaviour or serious violence problem . we have 10 force area run pilot for immediate justice , where people commit ASB have to do immediate reparation , and we ban nitrous oxide on 8 November last year . so an action plan be be implement , and every single police force be have money to run hotspot patrol to combat ASB . Asylum Accommodation : safety and wellbee what step his Department be take to help ensure the safety and wellbeing of asylum seeker in asylum accommodation . we continue to provide safe , habitable and fit - for - purpose accommodation for asylum seeker who would otherwise be destitute . the Home Office have establish procedure to hold contract accommodation provider responsible for the provision of the safety , security and wellbeing of asylum seeker . in addition , asylum seeker have access to a 24 / 7 helpline to raise concern and make formal complaint . recent tragic event demonstrate that even those who be at risk of suicide be ignore after repeatedly raise concern about their mental health in asylum accommodation . why have Ministers change the allocation of asylum accommodation policy to make it hard for people to prove that they be at risk of harm at a particular site ? will they learn the lesson from December ' s tragic incident ? I do not accept the depiction that the hon . Lady paint of the situation . we of course make appropriate case - by - case decision about accommodation arrangement for individual , reflect the need they have and with proper referral make , as one would rightly expect , to any other agency that may be require to ensure somebody ' s health or wellbeing , and that any safeguarding issue be properly address . migrant help support be of course available for people to access 24 / 7 and raise any issue . Illegal Migration : Co - operation with France what recent progress he have make with his french counterpart on tackle illegal migration . joint work with our french partner be crucial to stop the boat . thank in no small part to that joint working , small boat crossing be down by 46 % last year . my spy tell I that my hon . and learn Friend be in France just nine day ago . be there any lesson to be learn from the french authority about more co - operation that can go on to stop the boat even far ? my hon . friend be right : I be in France nine day ago . even while I be there , a boat be seize , but he be right to say that more need to be do . Personnel , equipment and technology be key to break the business model of the criminal gang . have meet the new Pr é fet du Nord , I be in no doubt that this be a joint mission . will the Minister update the House on the number of illegal migrant who have cross the channel and be currently be accommodate in hotel at the expense of the public purse ? how do that compare with the number of UK national who be currently homeless or sleep rough ? I can confirm that the Government have beat our target of close 50 hotel by the end of January , which I be sure the hon . Gentleman will want to welcome . Asylum Hotels what progress his Department have make on close asylum hotel . the Home Office have be clear that the use of hotel be a temporary and short - term measure to ensure that we meet our statutory obligation to accommodate destitute asylum seeker during a period of unprecedented number of small boat arrival . we be make significant progress in closing hotel , with more than 64 close by the end of January . I thank the Minister for that answer . Shrewsbury have more list building than any other town in England , and we benefit from beautiful architecture that attract a huge amount of tourism from across the United Kingdom and overseas . our top hotel in the centre of Shrewsbury be be use to house illegal migrant . we be give an assurance that the hotel would be take out of that use , yet we have hear nothing far from the Minister or his Department . when will the Lion Hotel in Shrewsbury revert back to its normal use , which be housing tourist ? it be certainly the case that I have not give an assurance to that effect , but I know that my hon . friend will welcome the fact that we be track ahead of profile when it come to closing hotel , and the number of people accommodate in hotel be go down . we will continue to make progress in order to allow more closure . I hear his representation about the hotel in his constituency . we be committed to this . we be make progress and we will see it through . obviously the overwhelming majority of those seek asylum here and who be in residential accommodation desperately do not want to be in that accommodation . they want their application to be hear and process quickly . the Minister know that around three quarter of those people will be grant asylum in this country . do he agree that part of the process , while a person be wait for their hearing and for their decision to be make , surely should be look at integration ? give that , be not time to give asylum seeker the right to work in this country ? that would be good for they morally , but also good for the Government and the taxpayer , because they would contribute to their own upkeep . it be fair to say that such an approach would make a mockery of our legal migration system and people play by the rule , lodge application and pay the appropriate fee . it be right that where people be grant asylum , we support they to be able to move on as quickly as possible . work be a key part of that . I just wish the hon . Gentleman have the same energy to try to help more of our people domestically to be able to take on these role , rather than say that we should resort to migrant labour all the time . neighbourhood police what recent assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of neighbourhood policing level . figure for local policing start to be publish in 2015 , with 61 , 083 role at the time . the most recent figure for March last year show that the number have increase by 6 , 000 to 67 , 785 . with a grow number of my constituent not even report crime because they do not have access to a public police station , will the Minister reconsider additional fund to ensure that local police station , such as Tamworth ' s , be reopen public - face police desk ? staffordshire constabulary will receive an extra £ 16 million next year compare with the current financial year , which be a significant increase . they now have more than 2 , 000 police officer due to our uplift programme , which have see record police number across England and Wales . one of the most commonly report crime in Rother Valley be burglary , either to rob home or to break into home and steal car key . do the Minister agree that every area , especially South Yorkshire , should have a dedicated burglary police team to deal with those particular issue and ensure we clamp down on those awful crime ? the previous Home Secretary , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) be successful in secure a commitment from police to ensure that every residential burglary have a visit from the police , but my hon . friend ' s idea for a dedicated burglary taskforce be excellent , and I commend it to all police and crime commissioner . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a brief statement . over the past few week , we have see disgraceful attempt to intimidate this House , to undermine the democratic process and to spread fear among those who have be elect to represent our country . that be unacceptable . it must end . to this House , I want to say clearly that the Government will defend our democracy . we be work with the police and with Parliament to ensure that disagreement be resolve in this House through debate , not outside with threat of violence . to those who seek to threaten this House , I say this : we will not be cow ; we will not be intimidate ; and we will not be silence . we will do whatever be necessary to protect those elect to represent we , to safeguard our freedom and to protect our right . I know I speak for colleague across the whole House when I say we will always act in the interest of our constituent and our country . I thank the Minister for that answer . he will be aware that there have be a 335 % increase in Islamophobic hate case in the UK since 7 October , and a 589 % rise in antisemitic incident compare with 2022 . that be affect our most marginalised and vulnerable group . what step be the Minister take to protect worshipper and faith school and to reduce unprecedented level of hate across these island ? over the past year this Government have increase the funding to the Community Security Trust by around £ 3 million , take the total to around £ 18 million . we have spend a similar amount on other place of worship — only last week I approve spending on security measure to mosque and church around the country , exactly to counter the kind of hate crime that the hon . Member describe . we have engage with not just the Community Security Trust but organisation such as Tell MAMA , which do a fantastic job of engage with we on anti - muslim hatred . it be extremely important that we all work together , not just to support and protect every religion and community in our country but to ensure that we lower the tension so that we can all be free to express our view . steal from small convenience story be cause concern because of both the financial impact on owner and the threat of violence towards staff . I be grateful to the Minister for meet colleague and I to discuss this last week . I pay tribute to the Thames Valley police and crime commissioner Matthew Barber for his excellent retail crime strategy . will my right hon . friend set out how the Government plan to tackle those theft and threat ? this be a very serious issue . the Government have a retail crime action plan agree with police , which include make sure that the police always attend when a suspect be detain , when police attendance be need to secure evidence or when there have be an assault . it also include always follow up every single line of inquiry when retail crime occur , include run footage of the offender through the facial recognition database , and identify and go after the criminal gang that often be behind shoplift . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last week , Tell MAMA report that anti - muslim hate incident have treble . that follow recent report that antisemitic incident have hit a record high . we all must challenge all form of threat , prejudice , racism and hate . have hear the word from the former deputy chair of the conservative party of a Muslim Mayor , who say that his " mate " be islamist extremist and that he have be take over by " Islamists " , be any Home Office Minister now prepare to stand up and say not only that those word about the London Mayor be wrong , but that they believe they be Islamophobic and should be condemn as such ? within 24 hour of those word be use , this Prime Minister take immediate action by remove the Whip from that individual . if only all leader of every political party be as quick to remove the Whip from those who spread hatred in our community . as Rochdale sadly demonstrate , they be not . I be sorry that the Minister , who I know take issue seriously , choose not to respond to my question . rightly , on all side of the House we have call out and condemn antisemitism , and we must continue to do so . if Government Ministers can not openly challenge Islamophobia , they play into the hand of extremist — both far right and Islamist . the Minister will know that hate crime fuel extremism . if the Government take any of this seriously , they would not have just ditch plan for a new hate crime strategy or leave it nine year to update the counter extremism strategy . do he agree that it be not just their inability to say the word but their failure to act that be leave our community expose ? I be sorry that the right hon . Lady do not see the action as clearly as other in this House . the Whip be remove immediately because anti - muslim hatred be wrong . there be no hierarchy in hatred or racism . it be all wrong . Anti - muslim hatred be wrong . the support that some have give to islamist community in our country be tragic and this Government will work against it . that be exactly why we have proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir — because we will work against hatred from whichever community , in whatever way it come . I understand that the Government be look to far restrict the ability of sex offender to change their name . should we not impose at least the same restriction , or perhaps an outright ban , on those convict of murder , because they can continue to be a threat to the family of those they murder ? the Home Office explore whether a name - change ban should be extend to murderer and determine that the operational need do not exist . anyone convict of murder automatically receive a life sentence . if they be release from prison , they be manage by probation for the remainder of their life and they remain under an obligation to notify probation within 72 hour of any change of their name . should they fail to do so , they face immediate recall to prison and up to an extra five year behind bar . so far , we feel that that be work adequately . next month , it will be four year since the publication of the cross - party Youth Violence Commission report , which recommend violence reduction unit . however , knife crime and serious violence be soar across the country . do the Minister accept that his Government ' s severe cut to police number , which mean we be at the bottom of international rank table , be leave our young people and community without the protection they need ? perhaps I have not say often enough in this Chamber that we now have record number of police officer across England and Wales , include in the Metropolitan police area , which have the high number of police officer per capita of any police force in the country . despite that , I be disappoint to see in the recent figure publish that , while across the rest of the country exclude London knife crime go down , on Sadiq Khan ' s watch in London it go up . in 2010 , the period of service to be eligible for a police long service medal change from 22 year to 20 year . sadly , no decision be make to award it retrospectively , mean that people such as Sedgley resident Guy Hewlett , who serve with distinction for 20 year , be exclude . this seem to be fundamentally unfair . will the Home Secretary agree to look into that unfairness , as a simple remedy could be find to recognise officer who serve for the minimum 20 year pre 2010 ? change of this nature be generally not apply retrospectively . I will look at that matter again . normally , when a length - of - service period have change it apply prospectively rather than retrospectively , but I will look at the issue . last month , tragically , a young man be stab to death at Strawberry Hill station in my constituency . the Minister will know that the key to tackle violent crime be intelligence - lead community policing , but despite his previous answer we have see police officer cut by a third since 2015 and regular abstraction from my constituency into central London . when will the Minister ensure that my constituent have a visible policing presence again so they feel safe ? I be sure that be a question the hon . Lady will be pose to London ' s police and crime commissioner , Sadiq Khan , in the course of the upcoming mayoral election . thank to Government funding , the Metropolitan police , in common with England and Wales , now have record police number . in the case of the Met there be about 35 , 000 , and in the rest of the country there be about 149 , 000 . in fact , not only do London have the high per capita funding of any force in the country , it have the high number of officer per capita of any force in the country , so Sadiq Khan really have no excuse at all . under the new change , the minimum income threshold for family visa be be raise incrementally over the next year . however , the only date we have be give so far for that threshold increase be 11 April 2024 . for people like my constituent who be plan to get married and be make wedding plan , will the Minister set out when we will have further clarity and an update on the timetable for announce the future threshold ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and I recognise his desire for certainty . what I can say be that we expect to complete the reform in early 2025 , with further staging post to come . we be , of course , carefully monitor the implementation through the period of deliver the initial increase . it be right that we go about it in that incremental way to give certainty to people . in Bristol , we have sadly see a number of young people kill by knife crime in the last few week . we have a conservative police and crime commissioner , but unlike the Minister I have no desire to party politicise this . what be he do to work with the Department for Education to ensure school be involve in try to lead the fight against knife crime and young people get involve , whether as victim or perpetrator ? the Youth Endowment Fund , lead by Jon Yates , have receive a £ 200 million endowment . its mission be to work with young people — and that include work with school in the way that the hon . Lady have describe — to identify the most effective intervention that could stop young people get on to the wrong track , a track that can often have tragic consequence . the youth endowment fund be work with violence reduction unit in the 20 police force area most affect , which be spend £ 55 million a year , to make the necessary intervention , for instance in school , to keep our young people safe . during a recent night out in Wrexham , where I be know as a nurse as well as the Member of Parliament , I be ask to help police with a man who have collapse . as I be begin cardiac resuscitation , the emergency call handler say that the first responder would be with we in an hour and 15 minute . fortunately the man be stabilise , but then come the wait . we be well used to the level of service provide by the Welsh Labour Government , but have the Minister make any assessment of how much time be lose by the police attend emergency service ? I thank my hon . friend for her work in help the community : her service have be exemplary . the police will of course help when there be a threat to life or safety or when criminality be involve , but when the emergency be purely medical , for instance when someone be undergo a mental health crisis , it be for the NHS to respond , and the nationwide roll - out of the Right Care , Right Person model across England — and soon , I hope , across Wales as well — will ensure that a medical response come when it be need . Yew Lodge hotel in the north - west Leicestershire village of Kegworth continue to accommodate 230 male illegal migrant . how much long will this blight be inflict on my constituent by the Government ? the hon . Gentleman make no mention of the fact that one of the hotel in his constituency be be close , but he might like to welcome that . he should actually be back the Government , because we be get on with close these hotel . we be track ahead of profile in that regard , and we also have a credible plan to reduce the inflow of people cross the channel by illegal mean . in respect of the projection of an antisemitic , terrorist - originate slogan on to the Big Ben tower last week , the Metropolitan Police Commissioner claim that he be powerless . that be utter nonsense , among other option , the police could use section 4A of the Public Order Act 1986 , which refer to the use of " threatening , abusive or insulting word or behaviour " with " intent to cause … harassment , alarm or distress " . it be behaviour , and it be insulting to Jews and many other . the police could also have reasonably fear a breach of the peace , order the removal of the projection machine , and , if there be non - compliance , arrest the individual for obstruct a constable under the Police Act 1996 . I have personally prosecute people for these offence . Police who fail to do their duty can be discipline for neglect of that duty . will the Minister act ? I be sure that all member be horrify when those political statement , one of which , by implication , call for the destruction of Israel , be beam on to the Big Ben tower . it be totally unacceptable , and , incidentally , it be also a breach of planning law . I do expect the police to take action ; my right hon . and learn Friend , a former Attorney General , have set out a number of ground on which it could have be take , and he can rest assure that I have forcefully communicate that to the commissioner already . one of my constituent have be wait for his asylum substantive interview for well over 18 month . he sit for four hour wait for an interview to start , but it be then cancel with no explanation . there be clearly systemic issue , but can the Department look at this particular case so that it can be resolve ? I know that the hon . Lady will welcome the improvement that we be make in the processing of asylum claim , which be reflect in the way in which the legacy backlog have be deal with , but if she can give I some specific detail , I will certainly ask the team to have a look at it as soon as possible . may I thank my hon . friend for not only close the four - star Newton Park asylum hotel at the beginning of February , but do so 26 day early ? the villager and the people who use the V3 bus service be extremely grateful for this exceptionally good practice . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work in represent the view of her constituent on this issue . she firmly back the Government ' s plan , which be allow we to get on with closing hotel such as the one in her constituency , and we will continue to make progress to deliver on our commitment . banking protocol clearly state that bank should contact the police when they detect fraud . HSBC rightly prevent a vulnerable constituent of mine from conduct a bank transfer to fraudster in South Africa . however , owe to a failure to notify the police , the fraud continue , and as a result my constituent lose more than £ 32 , 000 , transfer with the use of Apple gift card . what advice can the Minister give ? what recourse have my constituent to recover the money from HSBC ? if it have follow the protocol lay down , appropriate safeguard would have be put in place . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this issue . Fraud be a blight on our society and leave many people feel vulnerable and extremely nervous about use online service and the wide economy . I be delighted to say that fraud be already down by 13 % , and there be more we be do on this issue . I urge his constituent to follow the advice of the advertising campaign we be launch , which be stop ! think Fraud . this be a huge issue on which we be work with police force around the country , which be why we have 400 new police officer in the national fraud service and the national fraud intelligence unit . last September my private Member ' s Bill , which make public sexual harassment a criminal offence , receive Royal Assent . will the Minister say when that Act of Parliament will be commence and when guidance to police force will be issue ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . it be a pleasure to support his Bill as it go through the House . I can not say exactly when it will be commence , but I hope he will be reassure to hear that I have a meeting with official about commencement early this month . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . last week , the Home Secretary fire the Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration after lose confidence in he when he go public with his concern . as the Home Office fail to publish 15 report from the inspector despite an agreement that it would publish they within eight week of receipt , and with matter of border security at stake , be Mr David Neal actually a whistleblower ? as the right hon . Lady know , Mr Neal ' s appointment be terminate after he breach the term of his appointment and lose the trust of the Home Secretary in relation to the report that she mention . as she would expect , report and recommendation be always consider carefully by Ministers , and they will be publish in due course . the slogan that be project on to Big Ben last Wednesday be extreme and antisemitic . to many , it call for the destruction of Israel and be see as a genocidal statement . decent people around the country — not just Jews — find that appalling . do the Minister agree that there be criminal offence that could be use for prosecution , and will he reiterate his call for the police to prosecute those responsible ? I share my hon . friend ' s view . as the former Attorney General my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) point out a few minute ago , there be a number of basis on which the police could have act to prevent that projection . Big Ben be not a canvas for political campaigning , particularly where the slogan be deeply offensive in nature , and that be a view I have make very clear to the commissioner . last week , I raise on a point of order the case of my constituent Marte Prenga and her two - year - old daughter , who be stuck overseas , and I be assure that those on the Treasury Bench would pass on to Home Office Ministers the detail of their plight . can I please have a meeting with an Immigration Minister , as this issue be still unresolved ? I think the hon . Gentleman know that we Ministers be always approachable and accessible , and I would be happy to speak to he about that matter . Thames Valley police have consistently set the pace on combat rural crime , and next year ' s budget include provision to effectively double our rural crime taskforce . will the Policing Minister join I in congratulate Thames Valley police on all they be do and , more importantly , ensure that the Home Office learn from their good practice so that it can be apply across the country ? I pay tribute to Thames Valley ' s excellent police and crime commissioner , Matthew Barber , for the work he be do in combat rural crime and crime more widely . we have fund a rural crime unit within the National Police Chiefs ' Council , but I be happy to look at the excellent work in Thames Valley to ensure that lesson be learn across the country . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . member from across the Chamber probably do not need reminding of event last week . on SNP Opposition day , we bring forward a motion seek to ensure that this House speak with one voice in favour of ensure the release of the hostage currently under the control of Hamas , and to ensure that an immediate ceasefire take place to protect civilian life in Gaza . that SNP Opposition day turn into a Labour Opposition day . in that regard , Mr Speaker , you apologise to the SNP and this House . you say : " I make a mistake : we do make mistake and I own up to mine . we can have an so24 to get an immediate debate because the debate be so important to the House . " — [ Official Report , 22 February 2024 ; Vol . 745 , c . 872 . ] those be your word , Mr Speaker . in good faith , my colleague and I seek to bring forward an SO24 debate , which , among other thing , would have seek to end the sale of arm to Israel and call on the Government to use their voice at the United Nations to exercise our view in favour of an immediate ceasefire . it be my understanding that that so24 application have not be accept . can you please advise I on when it will be accept ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give I notice of his point of order . the Standing Order say that I should not give the reason for any decision regard a Standing Order No . 24 application . indeed , properly , we should not be discuss what be a private application to the Speaker . however , give the exceptional circumstance we find ourselves in today , my view be that I ought none the less to explain my reasoning . in determine whether a matter be proper to be discuss under the Standing Order , I must have regard to two criterion . the first be the extent to which it concern the administrative responsibility of Ministers of the Crown or could come within the scope of ministerial action . I be satisfied that the matter do relate to area of ministerial responsibility and fall within the scope of ministerial action . secondly , in determine whether a matter be urgent , I must have regard to the probability of the matter be bring before the House in time by other mean . the House come to a resolution on this matter on Wednesday last week . far , I understand that the Government be ready to make a relevant statement tomorrow , so there be a very imminent opportunity for this important matter to come before the House . that be why I decide that the application for an emergency debate should not proceed . that decision of course do not mean that member can not apply for a debate at a later stage , when circumstance might have change . while the decision be mine to take , I have consult my deputy and the Clerks on this matter and we have agree on this approach . situation in the Red Sea with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the recent response to Houthi aggression in the Red sea . thirty year ago , the United Nations convention on the law of the sea come into force . that agreement be ratify by 168 nation and it state explicitly in article 17 that " ship of all States , whether coastal or land - locked , enjoy the right of innocent passage through the territorial sea " . since 19 October the Houthis , aid and abet by Iran , have launch a ruthless and reckless campaign of attack against commercial shipping . these attack be not solely limited to commerce ; our military vessel be also in the Houthi crosshair . the Royal Navy , the US Navy and most recently the french Navy have also be target . vessel own by chinese and bulgarian company and crew from India , Sri Lanka and Syria have be target indiscriminately , make a mockery of Houthi claim that this be all about Israel . from the outset we have be clear that this can not carry on . freedom of navigation underpin not only our security but our prosperity . around 80 % of trade good be carry over the sea , as be about 90 % of the good arrive in the United Kingdom . these necessity on which we depend arrive through a small number of critical waterway , so uphold these precious freedom be essential for the preservation of life . this Government be determined to help restore the tranquillity of the Red sea . that be why the UK be one of the first member to join the US - lead taskforce , Operation Prosperity Guardian , with HMS Richmond now take over from HMS Diamond to patrol in the Red sea to help protect commercial shipping . it be why we be work in tandem with the US and other ally to reduce the Houthis ' capacity to harm our security and economic interest , to limit their impact on the flow of humanitarian aid , to prevent further regional escalation , and to show Iran in no uncertain term that we will push back against its destabilising behaviour . on occasion , in response to specific threat and in line with international law and the principle of self - defence , we have tackle the Houthi threat head - on . since 11 January , we have conduct a number of precision strike against Houthi target . in these previous round of strike , RAF aircraft successfully strike some 32 target at six different location , include drone ground control station as well as other facility directly involve in the Houthis ' drone and missile attack on shipping . I be pleased to say that it remain the case that , to date , we have see no evidence at all to indicate that the RAF strike cause civilian casualty , and the UN have note that it have observe no civilian impact arise from the RAF strike . although we have erode the Houthis ' capacity , their intent to prosecute indiscriminate attack against innocent vessel remain undiminished . just last week , MV Rubymar — a Belize - flag , british - register cargo vessel — be target in the gulf of Aden near the Bab al - Mandab strait . Hit by missile , the crew be force to abandon ship . an oil slick , cause entirely by damage sustain in the Houthi attack , now stretch many mile from the vessel . on Thursday , the british - register MV Islander be similarly target . it be strike by two missile , result in a fire on board . fortunately , there be no loss of life . this all come not long after two US - register bulk carrier , MV Navis Fortuna and MV Sea Champion , suffer minor damage from Houthi strike . the attack on Sea Champion highlight the Houthis ' recklessness and near - sightedness , consider that Sea Champion have deliver humanitarian aid to Yemen 11 time in the past five year and be due to unload thousand of tonne of much need aid to the yemeni people through the port of Aden and Hodeidah . the Houthis ' attack be , quite simply , callous . as near - sighted as these attack be , they continue to have serious and potentially long - term consequence across the region , as they cut off vital aid to civilian in Yemen and Syria , restrict crucial food import to Djibouti and threaten significant impact in Egypt . last time I speak on this issue , I tell the House that we will not hesitate to act again in self - defence . we have give the Houthis ample opportunity to de - escalate , but once again , the Houthi zealot have ignore our repeat warning . as a result , we have once again take action to defend ourselves against these intolerable attack . on Saturday night , a Royal Air Force package of four Typhoons , support by two Voyager tanker , join US force in a deliberate strike against Houthi military facility in Yemen that have be conduct missile and drone attack on commercial shipping and coalition naval force in the Bab al - Mandab strait , the southern Red sea and the gulf of Aden . as the House know , it be the fourth such operation to degrade the Houthi capability that be be use to threaten global trade in the Red sea . intelligence analysis indicate that the strike be successful , and that the site we attack be be use by the long - range drone that the Houthis use for both reconnaissance and attack mission , include at a former surface - to - air missile battery site several mile north - east of Sana ' a . our aircraft use Paveway IV precision - guide munition against the drone and their launcher . assessment continue at this still early stage , but the analysis so far indicate that all eight RAF target be successfully strike . three building be hit at the Bani military site , and five one - way attack drone be assess to have be destroy at the Sana ' a military site . on plan these strike , as be normal practice for the RAF , operation be carry out meticulously , and consideration be give to minimise any risk of cause civilian casualty . assessment so far indicate that across the four set of airstrike , some 40 military target have be hit , at seven different Houthi facility . I pay tribute to the immense skill and tireless dedication of the man and woman who make that possible . once again , I would like to make it clear that military action be only one aspect of our approach to the crisis in the Red sea . the whole international community have an interest in stop these attack , and we continue to work with it to turn that intent into action . the Prime Minister have engage regional leader , include the Sultan of Oman , as well as G7 partner . the Foreign Secretary and I have travel repeatedly to the region in recent week to discuss regional security . we be determined to end the illegal flow of arm to the Houthis , use whatever lever be available , include endure diplomatic engagement , and determine to continue to intercept illegal weapon and the shipping that help to feed that supply . we be cut off the Houthis ' financial resource , to far degrade their capacity to conduct attack ; for example , jointly with the US , we be sanction four Houthi leader , and we will continue to work with the US to cut the flow of Houthi fund . despite the good effort of the Houthis , we also continue to provide humanitarian help to people in the middle east . this year , we will send some £ 88 million of humanitarian support to Yemen , which will feed 100 , 000 yemini every month . the UK have recently work closely with our jordanian partner to airdrop life - save supply directly to the Tal al - Hawa Hospital in northern Gaza . the Houthis could stop this barbaric behaviour any time they want . instead , they callously choose to continue their reckless act of aggression , cause harm not just to innocent , but to their own people in Yemen . until they stop , we will continue to act , but consensus continue to grow that the Houthis ' violation simply can not continue . that be why , recently , the European Union officially launch its Operation Aspides ; member will know that aspide mean " shield " in ancient Greek . we very much welcome the commitment of our EU partner to join in the work that have be go on , because no nation should ever be able to threaten the artery of global commerce . thirty year ago , nation of the world all come together to protect innocent passage on our high sea . thirty year on , the House should be in no doubt whatsoever that we will continue to stand up for those right , and do all that we can to defend life and limb of sailor everywhere , and to preserve their precious trading route , on which we all depend . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Defence Secretary for advance sight of his statement . we accept that the weekend ' s airstrike be legal , limited , and target to minimise the risk of civilian casualty . we pay tribute to the total professionalism of all force personnel involve in the operation , which be conduct to protect shipping in the Red sea and uphold freedom of navigation for all nation . as the Defence Secretary say , the Houthis have be attack ship of all nation : chinese , bulgarian and french ship have be target ; Danish , Greek and UK ship have be hit ; and even aid vessel destine for Yemen have be in the firing line . the UK and US Navies have be force to shoot down drone in self - defence . today , the British Chambers of Commerce report that more than half of british exporter be be hit by high cost and delay because of the Houthi attack . the Houthis be threaten international trade and maritime security , and put civilian and military life in serious danger . that be why the UN Security Council last month pass a resolution condemn the Houthis ' action " in the strong term " , and demand that their attack cease . we accept that the military action over the weekend be justify , but be it effective ? what be the objective for these late strike ? be they fully meet ? be the target at both Sana ' a and Bani destroy ? minister have say that the aim of early strike be , first , to deter Houthi attack and , secondly , to degrade their capability , but deterrence do not feature in the weekend ' s eight - nation joint statement in support of the strike , and the Defence Secretary say this afternoon that " houthi intent remain undiminishe " . have deter attack be drop as one of the Government ' s objective for this military action ? as the Defence Secretary say , this be " the fourth such operation " since 11 January . when will the Government judge this to be a sustained campaign ? at what stage do the Government think that Parliament need a say ? it be the Prime Minister ' s responsibility to authorise UK military action and account for it to the public in this House . when will we hear from he ? any military action against the Houthis must be reinforce by a diplomatic drive in the region aim at stop the flow of iranian weapon , cut off Houthi finance and settle the civil war in Yemen . what more can the Defence Secretary say about the Government ' s wide action ? we continue to back the Royal Navy ' s role in defence of shipping from all nation through Operation Prosperity Guardian . how be that US - lead taskforce co - ordinating with Operation Aspides , the European Union ' s new naval presence in the Red sea ? finally , I totally reject Houthi claim that fire missile and drone at ship from around the world be somehow link to the conflict in Gaza . those attack do absolutely nothing for the Palestinians , whose agony be extreme . last week , Parliament pass labour ' s motion call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . we all want : an end to the fighting , now ; no ground offensive in Rafah ; all hostage release ; and aid to Gaza ramp up greatly . let we come together this week to work for a ceasefire that be observe by all side , and that can build into the political process that be need if we be to secure last peace , through a two - state solution , for both Palestine and Israel . I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment . he ask a series of question , and I will respond directly . on effectiveness , we believe that this set of attack be effective , and early reconnaissance show as much , as I outline in my statement . as ever , it will take a few day to get a full picture , but we have no reason to think that the action be not entirely successful . we very much intend our attack on Houthi infrastructure to be a deterrent . the Houthis think that they can continue their action ; our strike will ensure that they understand the consequence of those action and the price to pay for they , but perhaps other people , control other waterway , will also understand that the world will not simply stand back and allow those action to take place . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Prime Minister come to the House . I gently point out to he that , technically , he be wrong ; the Defence Secretary have the legal authority to sign off action , as part of royal prerogative . legally , I have responsibility for the attack , although , as he rightly point out , the Prime Minister come to the House to give the first two statement on they . as the message in each of those statement be similar and I have legal responsibility , it seem proper and right for I to come to the House and respond to question . we have have very full statement after each round of attack . the shadow Defence Secretary be quite right to say that this sit within a much wide diplomatic context . I go into some detail in my comment , but I be happy to talk more about the wide work that be go on in the region to try to bring to a successful conclusion the wide conflict , which be , in my view — and I think I hear he say in his view — nothing to do with why the Houthis be attack shipping in the Red sea . finally , I would just gently say — although many of the SNP be not here — that to claim that the House pass in full agreement a particular resolution last week be a little bit rich give the circumstance . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . open source information suggest that the strike be diminish the capability of the Houthis to attack international shipping . as that be both welcome and important , will the Secretary of State concur that that be also his assessment ? it be welcome that Aspides and Prosperity Guardian be co - ordinating , but do that also include on the interdiction of weapon be smuggle from Iran into Yemen ? my right hon . friend be right that we be degrade — attrite , as they say in military term — that capability . however , it be still the case that the Houthis be capable of launch attack . to what extent ? well , the House will come to its own conclusion , but it will note that the gap between the first three round of attack be relatively short , and that the gap between that and this fourth round have be long . again , we will wait to see what the response be . on interdiction : yes , we will certainly continue to try to ensure that Iran be not resupplye . the single good message to go out from this House be that Iran should stop that activity . it be worth note that it have be only Britain and the US that have be do interdiction in the past few year — and , of course , we will continue to do so . I call the SNP spokesperson . first , let I thank the Secretary of State for due sight of his statement . I think that , as an opposition party , we would give it our tentative support . what the shadow Defence Secretary say about possible mission creep do give we concern , but I be sure that it be the role of the Opposition to keep ask those question . the Secretary of State know that my last question regard this issue be on the position of the People ' s Republic of China . until recently , export between Europe and China be in excess of £ 400 billion a year , and there be no doubt that they will suffer as a result of the extended time that it take to travel between China and Europe , but what beggar belief be China ' s utter silence in relation to what be go on — notably , give that it have a military naval capacity in Djibouti . the Secretary of State and I will disagree on the issue of Gaza . if we have secure a real vote last week , we would probably have see that record formally in the House . Gerald M . Feierstein , the former US diplomat , have say that " the Houthis ' effort to insert themselves into the Gaza conflict " be aim at " strengthen their support base in the country and cement their movement more firmly in the … ' axis of resistance ' " . I wonder whether , like I , the Secretary of State be concerned that we be not only strengthen that axis of resistance but , with illicit chinese and russian support , now broaden it in the Red sea . I thank the hon . member for his — as he have describe it — tentative support . I have note that the House have be largely unified on this issue during the past four statement , follow previous attack . he ask about the mission creep situation . I hope he feel reassure by the concept that we have wait long , in part because the Houthis ' capability have be damage , so that there be a long gap and we do not see this thing speed up . we have no intention or desire to see it increase , but we will act if there continue to be attack on commercial and naval shipping . the hon . Member ask about China and Russia and I have to say that I agree ; it be important that country that be impact by this — the entire world , but perhaps China in particular — do speak up . we would welcome China be more vocal about the situation . as I mention in my comment , a chinese vessel have be attack , so this be of direct concern to the country . I call on China and , of course , Russia — for what it be worth — to be more vocal on these issue . lastly , I just do not accept this Gaza - Houthi connection . I remind the House that the Houthis be against Hamas until 2015 , and now they arrive on the scene and pretend to support they . they be opportunist thug take advantage of the situation and of people ' s life and misery — not just in Gaza but in Yemen — and they should stop and desist immediately . the Secretary of State will recall that , in handle this topic on 5 February , he strongly endorse the suggestion that a lot of this trouble in the middle east be link to tactic to divert from the war in Ukraine . give that the route from what be happen in Ukraine to what be happen in the middle east be via Russia and Iran , be he satisfied that there be no inconsistency between the tough line be take by the Ministry of Defence against the Houthis and the soft line be take by the Foreign Office against their iranian sponsor ? I somewhat reject that characterisation . to be absolutely clear , we be very much of the view that Iran be responsible ; it fund , train and provide equipment to the Houthis and many other iranian - sponsor proxy in the region . it be also the case that it have probably lose control of some of they . it be important that we deliver those message in many different way to the Iranians . I have see the read - out of the way they have be deliver , include directly , by the Foreign Secretary — and they be anything but weak . I put to the Secretary of State a similar question to the one that I put to the Prime Minister on 23 January : of course we want a diplomatic solution — any ramping up of a military solution have its consequence — but for how many more month be the Secretary of State and the Government go to allow this to continue ? do the Government and the ally have a plan b ? of course , the whole world be work on the overall context of the middle east . I know the hon . Gentleman will have see the report over the weekend about the discussion take place in relation to the hostage . we want a comprehensive settlement ; the Government ' s policy be , of course , a two - state solution . the middle east could be normalise in many way , include through saudi normalisation with Israel , as part of that broad package ; the Government be work proactively on this . as I say , I be conscious that we should not link these thuggish pirate — indicate dissent . I be not say the hon . Gentleman do that , but I be keen that we do not see the two issue as inextricably link . I accept that the hon . Gentleman be not try to do that . we be work very hard on the wide solution . I welcome this statement and the Defence Secretary ' s leadership . it be clear that the Houthi threat may last month , and it be right that Britain play our role in protect international shipping , but typhoon be task from Cyprus only because our surface fleet can not hit target at range on land . I know the Defence Secretary be look at a new vertical launch system to rectify that , but do he agree that an urgent operational requirement to introduce guide multiple launch rocket system with the new precision - strike missile would allow our Royal Navy , already task to the Red sea , to help eliminate the Houthi threat ? there be always good reason to introduce new capability . in fact , I be recently down on HMS Somerset at Devonport , where a system be be fit and trialle . it be not the case , as it be sometimes characterise , that we be use Typhoons because we do not have another option ; our first preference be to work in this way for a range of reason that I can not enter into at the Dispatch Box . it be worth note that when the US carry out action in Iraq and Syria , its plane fly all the way from the United States , and I be not aware of anybody say that that be because it do not have facility close to hand . we be use the correct facility for the particular operation , notwithstanding the fact that it be always nice to have new facility . I agree with the Secretary of State that we must always think about our servicemen and woman who carry out these task . as a former Defence Minister , it be news to I that it be up to the Defence Secretary to agree to any strike , but perhaps this Defence Secretary have more power than his predecessor . what be the policy and strategy behind this set of circumstance ? I and a number of other Defence Committee member meet the Defence Minister of Italy a few week ago in Rome . Italy be deploy to the region . how be it that this be now a US and UK - lead operation ? what be we do to build alliance with Italy and other european nation that have an interest in do so ? as my hon . friend the Member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) ask , what ultimately be plan b and the long - term endgame ? I will avoid get into the constitutional position of how that authority run . it would be inconceivable to do that without the Prime Minister , but it be technically the case that the royal prerogative run to the Defence Secretary , for what it be worth . I be very familiar with my friend Minister Crosetto , whom the right hon . Gentleman meet in Rome . the Italians have , as he know , opt to join Aspides , the EU operation . we will work closely with our european friend and ally to ensure that that interact properly with the wide Prosperity Guardian and the direct action that we be take . of course , we welcome action from other friend and ally in that regard . I be very interested to hear the Secretary of State say that it be just the United Kingdom and the United States do the interdiction to ensure that there be no rearmament of the Houthis , but what assessment have he make of the source of that rearmament ? what percentage do he think come from Iran , through Syria , or through other agent ? we be pretty certain that it all originate in Iran — [ interruption . ] actually , I have just be inform by my parliamentary private Secretary that actually there be also a french interdiction of some weapon in 2023 , so let I put that correction on the record . to answer the question , I believe that it all originate from Iran . which route it take in be another matter , but much of it come ultimately by sea , and we continue to work proactively to ensure that we prevent those shipment whenever we can . will the Secretary of State answer the question ask by the shadow Defence Secretary , which he avoid early : now that this appear to be sustain operation , might a vote in this House be appropriate ? we will continue to gauge the view of the House on these matter . I have note that each party ' s representative have — from tentatively to fully — support these measure response . if the rapidity or severity of the attack increase , for example , my judgment at the moment would be that it be possible to read the mood of the House , but we will keep that under review and ensure that we continually come back to the House to provide defence intelligence briefing to member who require they . accord to a survey release by the British Chambers of Commerce , over half of british retailer and exporter have be impact by the disruption in the Red sea , which be cause logistic delay , push up cost , and risk high price and few choice in british shop and elsewhere . can my right hon . friend confirm that our military action be consistent with the UK ' s overarch aim of de - escalate tension and restore stability in the Red sea ? yes , I can absolutely provide that reassurance . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to point out that the situation be already have a cost for british consumer . as I mention in my comment , globally about 80 % of good move by sea ; for the United Kingdom , it be about 90 % , give that we be an island . it be very important therefore to show , both for the purpose of deterrence and to weaken the Houthis ' ability to attack shipping , that we mean business when we say that this can not carry on . after four separate strike in seven week , this appear to be a prolong military campaign , so I ask the Minister again , as I do on 5 February : what be the long - term strategy , and how do this relate to the ongoing precarious situation in Yemen itself ? if the Government ' s plan be to sustain military action , will he speak to the Prime Minister to ensure that Parliament accordingly have a vote or a say , which be only right ? I hope the hon . Lady will join I in welcome action against the Houthis , who have attack a ship that — as I mention — have provide aid to the people of Yemen on multiple occasion . I know that she do not make this mistake , but some people think that the Houthis be somehow the yemeni authority . they be not ; they be not the Government . they be destroy that country through their action , and be actually prevent aid from get to the people of Yemen , so it be absolutely right that we take this action . to assure the hon . Lady , the previous three attack be seven day apart or so ; it have be a long period this time . we have be able to wait long , perhaps because the Houthis have few option to attack shipping , but I stress that we will continue if they carry on attack shipping . the simple thing for all of we to do be to send a clear , united message to the Houthis that they must stop attack innocent shipping . the Secretary of State be absolutely right to say that military action be necessary but not sufficient to deal with the long - term problem of the Houthis . he have mention the necessity of tackle financing and the illegal shipping of weapon , but global shipping be peculiarly vulnerable to cyber - attack . what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that the UK ' s cyber - capability be share with our international partner to protect our global shipping interest ? there be essentially two form of warfare that my hon . friend be point to : one be direct cyber - attack and the other be the use of electronic warfare to cause particular outcome . I be afraid that we have see a lot of that , particularly in the theatre in Ukraine , and we be very conscious of the way it be be use in the Red sea region as well . we will continue to do all we can to help through the Prosperity Guardian element of this operation , and to make sure that we be a step ahead of those who would , through preference , destroy the ability for world trade and good passage through open sea to take place . I assure the Minister that he have the full — not tentative — support of DUP Members for the action he have take , because as he have point out , what be happen will affect business and consumer in the UK through inflation and the inability to get supply . however , those effect be not limit to the UK ; almost every european nation rely on those shipping lane be keep open . why be it that we be do the heavy lifting when it come to attack the Houthis , and other nation be not join in ? first , I be very grateful for the support of the right hon . Gentleman ' s party . secondly , two factor have to be in play in order to take action : the will to do it and the capability to do it . quite a large number of nation be involve , either through Prosperity Guardian or direct support for the military action , which include intelligence officer and other mean of assistance — we be receive support from a whole range of people . we now also have Operation Aspides , which the Europeans be launch . we look forward to see what they bring to this action , but I stress that it be our capability and willingness combine that mean that the United Kingdom be able and willing to act when perhaps other be not . have my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary consider engage with the currently unrecognised country of Somaliland ? I visit it recently , as the Register of Members ' Financial Interests will show . as it have a border with the gulf of Aden , its port at Berbera might be useful to his Majesty ' s Government . I know that my right hon . and learn Friend be a big fan of Somaliland . I have visit it myself in the past , and I know that in a difficult environment , they do a very good job — administratively and otherwise — of try to run their government . I will take his comment away and confer with the Foreign Secretary . I appreciate that the Secretary of State have come to the House on several occasion to give an update on this situation , and that further action continue to be take to avoid the Houthis disrupt Red sea shipping . the difficulty be that they appear not to be deter by what the Government be throw at they , follow on from many year of be undeterred by attack on they from the Saudi Government . in fact , they be use this as part of their propaganda machine against the west . so can I ask the Secretary of State : how do he see this ending ? I would say two thing to the hon . Lady . first , as I have try to stress before , I do think that this operation be have an impact . we have see long period between attack , and we have see the Houthis ' ability attrite , so they have few capability . that be certainly the case . the second thing I would say — perhaps I should have say it soon — in answer to what might bring this to an end be that the Houthis do want to get the peace deal they have in place with the Saudis ratify by the United Nations , which clearly will not ratify a peace deal between the two party until they stop shoot at international shipping . I do think that there be an endgame in the saudi - Houthi peace deal be sign off by the United Nations , but the onus remain on the Houthis to stop shoot at international shipping and disrupt its flow before they can get that and , indeed , the financial improvement to their own situation that will come from the deal be sign . Al - Jazeera have report that , accord to its number , 37 , 000 houthis have be recruit since the start of the airstrike , and they be use the airstrike as a recruiting tool . Al - Jazeera believe that this be for a push on Ma ' rib , which be full of natural resource . as we know , Ma ' rib become a world heritage site in 2023 . it be home to the ancient kingdom of Sheba , or Saba ' , and also of the famous dam , which be mention in the Koran . what step be the Government take to make sure that that world heritage site be protect , and if the Houthis be to move into that area , would they step in to stop they destroy these essential historical and religious site ? my hon . friend raise a very important point , and if he do not mind , I will confer with my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary on this issue . on the membership point , the Houthis be make up of a ragtag of people who be often quite desperate and those who be lead into a particular way of life with the Houthis . we want to dismantle that , and the good way to do it be through the peace deal that have be agree , but that can not be enact by the UN until they stop fire on commercial shipping . we would like to see that situation unwound . I will take his other point away and come back to he . on 6 February — 20 day ago — I table write question 13372 , ask " for what reason israeli military plane have use UK airport on each occasion since 7 October 2023 . " that may or may not be relevant to this statement , but I do not know , because I have not yet receive an answer . can the Secretary of State either answer the question now , or tell I when I will receive a write answer ? I will certainly look into that for the hon . member , but I would have think that Israel use UK airport for the purpose of fly El Al and other airline to this country . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and I support the necessary action of self - defence to secure freedom of navigation in the Red sea . however , to keep the whole country on the same page and to understand the importance of this , I note that while the purpose of the action be first and foremost to protect the people — the seafarer and the military personnel — on those vessel , the economic impact globally be huge , as have be reference . business be report to I a threefold or fourfold increase in shipping cost , which of course we will all pay for at the till . in conjunction with the Treasury and the Department for Business and Trade , have my right hon . Friend make an assessment of the magnitude of the figure that the challenge to freedom of navigation in the Red sea be cause to our economy and the global economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that this have a cost not just to business or industry , but to household in this country . it will come straight through to the bill for the weekly shop , which be why it be so important that we do not allow these attack to go unchallenged and that we make sure we degrade the ability for they take place . he ask about the ongoing assessment by the Department for Business and Trade and the Treasury , and provide some datum from his own knowledge about the increase shipping cost . shipping be typically not an enormous part of the cost of each individual item people buy in the supermarket , but of course over a period time , that will have a negative impact , which be why it be important to make it clear that freedom of navigation be sacrosanct and that we will always take action if it be affect in any way , shape or form . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . I very much support what he be do and his strength of character and purpose , and as my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) say , we be very much on the same page . with joint strike with our ally ongoing , it be clear that support for the Houthis be still make its way from the axis of evil to enable they to carry on with persistent threat and attack . the Houthis continue their attack , so what discussion have take place with our ally to ascertain what the next step to secure the route will be ? how quickly can those step be take to secure the sea route and trade for all country across the world ? again , I thank the hon . Gentleman for his party ' s support on this . he will be interested to hear that I have extensive discussion last week both at NATO in Brussels and at the Munich security conference on exactly the issue he have raise . a broad range of international discussion be go on , and we all want to see the Houthis stop and to have a wide settlement with Saudi . there be no excuse that be plausible for the action be take , and common sense would say that China , and even Russia , would be pile on the pressure to do that . we will carry on work internationally with our partner , and with those in the p5 , to try to ensure that happen . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the write question I refer to be about israeli military aircraft — I think the Secretary of State might have misunderstood , or I might not have speak clearly . I would appreciate an answer to that write question as soon as he can give it . Secretary of State ? I shall ensure that that answer be forthcoming . Post Office Horizon : Compensation and Legislation with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement to update the House on the progress that have be make to support victim of the Horizon scandal . since this terrible miscarriage of justice be first expose , the Government have be work tirelessly to put matter right for postmaster . we have set up an independent inquiry and fund various redress scheme that we have continuously improve to speed up compensation for all affect . that work have be take place for many month , and long before ITV air the excellent programme " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " . the work include our announcement last autumn of the optional £ 600 , 000 fix - sum award for those who have be wrongfully convict . we continue to develop our response to the scandal , and on Thursday I make a write statement detail the way that we plan to legislate to overturn Horizon - relate conviction en masse . we expect to introduce that legislation as soon as possible next month . my statement set out that the new legislation will quash all conviction that be identify as be in scope , use clear and objective criterion on the face of the Bill . conviction will be quash at the point of commencement , without the need for people to apply to have their conviction overturn . the criterion will cover the prosecutor , extend to prosecution undertake by Post Office Ltd and the Crown Prosecution Service , as well as offence type , ensure that those align with offence know to have be prosecute by the Post Office . that mean that only relevant offence such as theft and false accounting will be in scope . on offence date , a set timeframe will ensure that conviction be quash only where the offence take place during the period when the Horizon system and its pilot be in operation . the criterion will also cover the contractual or other relationship of the convict individual to Post Office Ltd , so that only sub - postmaster , their employee , officer or family member , or direct employee of the Post Office will be within the define class of conviction to be quash . on the use of the Horizon system at the date of the offence , the convict person will need to have be work , include in a voluntary capacity , in a post office that be use Horizon system software — include any relevant pilot scheme — at the time that the behaviour constitute the offence occur . such legislation be unprecedented and constitutionally sensitive , but this scandal be unprecedented too . I be clear that this legislation do not set a precedent for the future , and nor be it a reflection on the action of the court and the judiciary , who have deal swiftly with the case before they . however , we be clear that the scale and circumstance of the miscarriage of justice demand an exceptional response . we be also receive invaluable support from the Horizon compensation advisory board in this effort . once again , I thank the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and his colleague on the board , include Lord Arbuthnot . the board meet on Thursday . we be join by Sir Gary Hickinbottom and Sir Ross Cranston , who will be the final arbiter of claim in the overturned conviction and GLO scheme respectively . at the meeting , the board strongly support the proposal in my write statement for legislate to overturn conviction . they also propose sensible measure to accelerate compensation for those impact . one of the big constraint on the speed of redress for those who choose to take the full assessment route be that it take time for claimant and their representative to gather evidence and develop their claim . to encourage early submission of claim , once the Post Office receive a full claim from someone with an overturned conviction , it will forthwith top up their interim redress to £ 450 , 000 . of course , if they have opt for our £ 600 , 000 fix - sum award , they will get that instead . similarly , on the GLO scheme , where claim be typically small , we have implement fix - sum award offer of £ 75 , 000 , help claimant to move on with their life . those who be not satisfied with this fix offer can continue to submit large claim , and they will be assess on a case - by - case basis . we have commit to provide offer on a fully complete claim within 40 working day in 90 % of case . if initial GLO offer be not accept and independent facilitation be then enter , we shall forthwith pay postmaster 80 % of our initial offer , to help ensure that they do not face hardship while those discussion be complete . we have always be clear that our first offer of compensation should be full and fair . it be early day , but the number suggest that in the GLO scheme we be achieve that . More than 70 % of our offer in that scheme be accept by postmaster without reference to the independent panel . we will also ensure that postmaster be keep regularly up to date with the progress of their claim . the advisory board have make a number of other helpful proposal . those be set out in the report of the meeting , which my Department be publish today . I have undertake to give they serious consideration . I will advise the House when we reach decision about those proposal , and I will doubtless return again with further update as part of our unceasing determination to deliver justice for everyone catch up in this long - run and tragic scandal . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Opposition spokesperson . may I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement ? the Horizon scandal have rightly leave the public outrage by the scale and shocking detail of the injustice that have be commit . the scandal be one of the great miscarriage of justice in british history . it have rob innocent people of their livelihood , their liberty and , sadly , in numerous case , their life . More than 20 year on , the victim and their family be still suffer the consequence of the trauma of all that they have be put through . until recently , there have be little progress and delay at every turn , which have cause even further distress . victim and their family have be trap in a nightmare for too long . we all want to see the exoneration of all the remain conviction , and the delivery of rightful compensation to all those affect sub - postmaster as quickly as possible . on the Opposition Benches , the Labour party have make it clear that we want to see a swift and comprehensive resolution to this insidious injustice , and we be commit to work with the Government to ensure that happen . I recognise the important work that the Minister have do , both on the Back Benches and in his current role . the unprecedented scale of the legal work be carry out will be possible only with cross - party working and cross - party support . I want to take the opportunity to thank the advisory board for its tireless work in support the Government in get this right , as well as hon . member on both side of the House and in the other House . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to progress the legislation . labour be committed to work with the Government to deliver rightful exoneration , but I know that many member will have have question follow last Thursday ' s write ministerial statement , so I welcome the Minister return to the House . I have a series of question to pose to he . first , in the light of what he have say today , what further detail can we expect on the legislation be table ? will he far clarify why conviction prosecute by the Department for Work and Pensions be exclude from the legislation and what step he will take to get the Department to deliver exoneration as soon as possible ? the Minister ' s proposal set a very difficult precedent , as he say , on the relationship between the legislature and the judiciary . will he outline what conversation he have have with the Lord Chancellor about this matter and his view on it , which might alleviate some people ' s continue concern ? as the Minister mention , there be also issue around precedent that could be exploit in the future for less appropriate purpose . although I appreciate the assurance that he have provide on that , it would be helpful to understand and get clarification on what specific safeguard will be put in place to avoid this become a precedent . the cross - party nature of this work be critical to ensure that happen . however , some people be ask whether he consider that this particular example could be relevant in the future for other worthy cause . may I also ask the Minister about the pre - Horizon system , capture ? will he confirm whether prosecution be make use Capture datum and whether any sub - postmaster lose money due to Capture failing ? if so , will he commit to those conviction be in the scope of the legislation and compensation scheme ? I thank the hon . member for her collaborative comment . I be keen to work with she go forward , as we have every step of the way on this issue . I do not accept that we have make little progress . let we be clear that 78 % of all full claim that have be submit have be settle — that is 2 , 700 claim that have be settle . nor do I accept that there have be delay at every turn . that be not a correct characterisation of the situation . with regard to our next step , as I say , we expect the legislation to be table next month , which be as quickly as possible . I be work on this on very much a daily basis . on the difference between Post Office and CPS case — those we be seek to overturn with this legislation — and DWP case , I think it be fair to say there be a different standard of evidence . those DWP case rely on evidence independent of Horizon such as the surveillance of suspect , collation and examination of cash order from steal benefit book and girocheque , handwriting comparison and witness statement . those case be very much not simply rely on Horizon evidence . my engagement with the Lord Chancellor have be extensive , and our engagement with other stakeholder — include the hon . member ' s shadow Front - Bench colleague — have also be extensive . we decide that be the right thing to do . have say that , these be unprecedented step . I think that again speak to the fact that we be keen to make as much progress as possible , rather than as little . the hon . Lady mention safeguard . the standard of evidence be critical to get to this point . it be fair to say that the trailblaze 555 , who successfully take their case to the court in the first place , set a high bar for anyone to emulate or replicate . we will be clear in the legislation that conviction will be overturn base on objective criterion , as another way to deal with this . that speak to the hon . Lady ' s last point on Capture , which I be very aware of and I have discuss with the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) on several occasion , include immediately prior to this statement . we need to ensure that we have the right evidence base . I be happy to continue the dialogue on that , but it be important that we do not include cohort where we do not have the evidence base , as we have for the cohort that we have set out — where the CPS and the Post Office prosecute case . we be take very serious measure to overturn the conviction . we should never resort to this kind of approach lightly . will the Minister take UK Government Investments out of its role of control and supervise the Post Office ? it have allow these gross injustice to go on for too long , allow the Post Office senior manager to rack up huge loss of £ 1 , 391 million to last March , with more to come this year , and give the executive bonus for lose we that much money . it have leave the Government with a great financial black hole . would it not be well to change the Post Office management , to have it report directly to the Minister , and to make its no . 1 task give justice to the sub - postmaster ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . he and I have have serious conversation about the future of the Post Office , which I be keen to continue to engage on . the current UKGI representative who sit on the Post Office board be Lorna Gratton , for whom I have a great deal of time and respect . clearly it be important that the inquiry do its work to determine who do what in the past . as we look to the future , there be different opinion on how the Post Office should be govern . I be happy to keep those discussion ongoing with my right hon . friend . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . under successive labour , Tory and Liberal Ministers , Post Office Ltd have oversee the large miscarriage of justice in UK history . the Horizon scandal be just appalling . unusually , both the scottish and northern Irish Governments have write to the UK Government , call on they to rule on devolved affair . it be vital that the UK Government work to ensure that exoneration in Scotland and Northern Ireland take place at the same time as those in England and Wales . [ interruption . ] I do not find this amusing at all , but obviously the right hon . member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) do . utterly shameful . order . the devolved government have no power or locus in the UK Post Office , so we really need to get this together . when will the legislation for both the exoneration and the redress scheme be publish ? the scottish and Northern Irish Governments have write to ask for UK - wide legislation . we need the UK Government to act , because otherwise we can not guarantee simultaneous legislation that be compatible and comparable with UK Government scheme . when will there be a response to the Scottish Government ? this be really important . there be report yesterday that Post Office Ltd have only now bring in external investigator to investigate its internal investigator . do that not seem quite late to the Minister ? why be that not do early ? be it just to avoid the appearance of continue cover - up in Post Office Ltd ? I thank the hon . Lady for her work and for her point , include on the devolve issue around Scotland and Northern Ireland which she be right to raise . we consider that very carefully . when we originally set out to legislate , we be very clear that it would be for England and Wales only , but that we would work with our counterpart in the other part of the United Kingdom on what they might do . indeed , we have respond to they already . we meet they last week before we announce the legislation in this statement to the House . we decide to legislate for England and Wales only , because justice be a devolved matter . as she say , the Post Office be uk - wide , but justice be a devolved matter in Scotland and Northern Ireland , and of course they have different legal system in those area and different prosecutor . take action to interfere with the independent judiciary be a very , very serious thing to do , of course , but we believe that it be the right way . we be work closely with our counterpart in the devolved administration to ensure they understand our legal approach and we be very happy to assist with any legislation they may seek to undertake in their own Parliaments . on redress , there be a single UK - wide scheme , so once somebody ' s conviction be overturn they can access redress in exactly the same way as anybody in England and Wales . on the investigation or investigator , that be initially a matter for the Post Office but also for the inquiry to see what happen in the past . there be little point in the huge expense of set up a public inquiry , as member call for , and then seek to do the inquiry ' s work ourselves . we need to see exactly what the inquiry make of that and of many other issue . I commend the Minister and the Secretary of State for the firm and consistent approach the Government be take to get justice for the affected sub - postmaster . we hear early about precedent . the Minister will know that many of we have concern about precedent in bring forward special legislation in this case , although we know , of course , that many hundred of innocent sub - postmaster have suffer the most serious miscarriage of justice . the Minister just say that the scale and circumstance of the Post Office ' s action in this case rightly require an exceptional response . will he set out how use that mechanism will ensure that the people we be bother about , the sub - postmaster , benefit speedily and accurately from those measure ? I thank my hon . friend for his point and for his work on the Select Committee . he be right that we will take those step very carefully and very much as a last resort . he conclude his question on exactly the right point . this be about sub - postmaster and the speed of overturn those conviction : the speed to justice . we look at do that through other mean , but do not feel that they would achieve the same level of speed . he may be aware that hundred of people have pass away — there be a report in the newspaper over the weekend — wait for compensation and justice . that be just not acceptable . we make the difficult decision to deal with this situation in this particular way . as we have often describe it , this be the least - bad option but it be still the right option . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . may I put on record my gratitude to the Minister for the speed and attention he be pay to this issue ? the bottom line , however , be that redress be too slow and the offer be too low . paper that the Select Committee be publish this afternoon show that at the core of the problem be a toxic culture of disbelief of sub - postmaster , which still persist at the top of the Post Office . indeed , the board minute for March last year show that board member lament that the board be tired and constantly distract by historical issue and short - term crisis . I be afraid that that be not good enough when only 40 % of the allocate budget for the Horizon scheme have be pay out and only 4 % of the budget for the overturn conviction scheme have be pay out . when the Minister bring forward his Bill , will he make sure that the Post Office be now take out of every single one of the compensation scheme , and that a hardwired instruction to deliver , with a fix , legally bind timetable to deliver compensation agreement , be write on the face of the Bill ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point , his kind word early , and his work on this matter . I know that he will be chair a Select Committee session on it tomorrow , and I look forward to his recommendation . I agree that compensation have be deliver too slowly . we be try to accelerate its delivery every single day , and we be , I think , do good work with the advisory board to ensure that that happen . I do not accept that the offer be too low , although I be not say that there be no exception ; no compensation scheme will be 100 % perfect . in respect of the GLO scheme , for example , 58 full claim have be submit and 41 have be accept without reference to the next stage of the process , involve the independent panel , which would seem to indicate that the offer that have be make be fair . of course people will not take my word for it — they will only accept it when those case have be resolve — and there be bind to be high - profile case , as indeed there have be , in which people say that the offer be too low . however , we be determined to ensure that everyone have full compensation that be also fair to the individual , fair to the other individual within the scheme and , of course , fair to the taxpayer . as for the people who be run the scheme , as the right hon . Gentleman know , the Horizon shortfall scheme be set up as a scheme run by the Post Office , with an independent panel include eminent kc such as Lord Garnier . I have meet its member , as have the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , and we have confidence in it . nevertheless , we be look at recommendation from the advisory board for an independent appeal process . the GLO scheme be independent of the Post Office ; it be within our Department , and we be work to ensure that the offer be fair . as the right hon . Gentleman suggest , we be consider bring the overturn conviction scheme back in - house , and we will have more to say about that in due course . the right hon . Gentleman mention 40 % of the budget . we set a maximum budget of £ 1 billion — not a cap , but a maximum budget at this point . part of the reason why only 4 % of overturn conviction claim have be settle be the fact that the conviction have not in fact be overturn , which be why we be legislate in this way . once those hundred of conviction have be overturn , en masse , people will have access to rapid compensation via either the fix - sum award , whereby compensation take only day , or the full - assessment route , which take long . the right hon . Gentleman speak about a legally bind route , and of course we will look at all the various suggestion that be make . we have just legislate to extend the timescale for GLO compensation because we do not want to be bind by an arbitrary date , and I think he support our legislation . I would therefore caution he against suggest a legally bind date , because not everything be in our gift , in term of when we receive a claim and how fast it can then be process . the Minister will be aware from my correspondence of the case of my constituent Mr Graham Ward — one of the 555 in the GLO . he have be in touch with I in the last week , and I think it fair to say that he have express his deep frustration about the process that the House be currently discuss in respect of redress and access to compensation . the £ 75 , 000 fix - sum offer be less than the impact that he have experience . in his statement , the Minister refer to the 40 - day process that people might wish to go through rather than accept the lump sum . may I suggest to he that that should be look into ? Graham be have to undergo medical assessment and various doctor ' appointment , and all this be a terrible ordeal that continue for he , but so many other have also be part of this . I urge the Minister to bring a human element to his consideration , and to recognise that £ 75 , 000 do not even scratch the surface when someone have lose their business , their livelihood , the goodwill and their reputation . that be what we must restore soon rather than later . I thank my right hon . friend for her constant correspondence and engagement with Mr Ward . I write to she recently about the case , and ask to be keep update on his progress . the £ 75 , 000 be one of two route that people can take . if they feel that their claim be below £ 75 , 000 , they do not have to submit any evidence and can simply opt for the £ 75 , 000 , take that money off the table , and move on with their life . if they feel that their claim be significantly high than that , they can opt for the full - assessment route , which inevitably take more time because assess someone ' s loss be a complex process . the submission of a claim for financial loss will require forensic accountant on behalf of the claimant , and other assessment of the type that my right hon . friend mention will also be need . all the compensation scheme with which I have be involve during my time in this place have be complicate , but we be try to simplify this one . only last week we discuss with the advisory board measure to accelerate the process , but the fundamental principle be that claimant such as Mr Ward should always be give the benefit of the doubt . I declare my interest as a member of the Horizon compensation board , and I thank the Minister for his statement . it be welcome to see he , rather than the Secretary of State , present today ' s statement . I welcome the approach that the Government be take on overturn conviction , but I note that it include pilot . I have give evidence to the Minister and the public inquiry about the Capture system . those affect need to be include in any overturned conviction and to get compensation . I be slowly get the evidence out of the Post Office and from individual case , and it come back to a point that the Chair of the Select Committee just make about the role of the Post Office . the Minister write a letter at the weekend to the Select Committee , say that the culture at the Post Office have change , but it clearly have not ; the toxic culture be still there . until the Post Office be take out of this process altogether and force to regurgitate the information , nothing will change . the Minister know that one of the advisory board ' s recommendation be to do exactly that . until we do it , postmaster will not have any faith in the process . I thank the right hon . Gentleman again for his tireless work over the year and , indeed , for his work in recent month on the advisory board . it be hugely important for accelerate this process . we have discuss Capture on a number of occasion . it be important that we have the right body of evidence on that , and I be keen to work with the right hon . gentleman to make sure that we do . clearly , intervene in matter that be independently decide by the court be a step we take very rarely — it be unprecedented in this context — but I be happy to discuss that far with he and to help he seek evidence from the Post Office where he need more evidence on this issue . we discuss it last week , and I be keen to make sure that we have the process run as independently as possible . I can assure colleague , any claimant out there and the wide public that every single process — not least the GLO scheme and the overturn conviction scheme — have an independent reviewer . it be Sir Gary Hickinbottom for the overturn conviction scheme and Sir Ross Cranston for the GLO scheme . these be very highly regarded individual , who will make sure that postmaster who come forward be fairly treat and get the redress they deserve . I welcome the care that have be take to set out how extraordinary this circumstance be and the fact that we be not lead ourselves into set any precedent . I also welcome scrutiny of the Bill as it come forward . on compensation , it be right that evidence be check and that we be thorough , but I be concerned that the Government ' s payment clock will start to run only when they be satisfied that they have all the information on individual case . it be very difficult for some postmaster to collate document cover 20 year , some of which have be destroy or damage . this be cause a lot of stress , in a similar way to what my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) describe . will the Minister explain the Government ' s position regard evidence ? give the process of try to speed up the payment , be we able to get to the point at which we be take a view on claim , so that we can kickstart the 40 - day process and get the money out the door ? I thank my hon . friend for her engagement with this issue and for her work on behalf of her constituent , whose case I be very aware of . yes , we absolutely should be take a view where evidence be impossible to obtain . of course , it be fair to request certain bit of information to support a claim , but where such information be not available because it pertain to 20 or 25 year ago , it would be unreasonable to expect that as the basis for a claim . as I say early , where there be an absence of evidence but a broad claim that be compelling , there be no doubt that the claimant should get the benefit of the doubt , and I be very keen to make sure that her constituent get compensation as quickly as possible . I thank the Minister and his predecessor for their work on this . I know that he have be pay a lot of attention to it . on the issue of full and fair compensation , may I express a worry about the £ 600 , 000 option ? it have be say that this be a complicated process , but it do not have to be . schedule of past and future loss be regular event when calculate these matter , and if ever there be a case for aggravated and exemplary damage , surely this be it . my fear be that people who be up against time limit and perhaps get old will want to accept the £ 600 , 000 , which will be a vast undersell of the true value of their claim . what mechanism be the Minister put in place to ensure that people do not undervalue their claim and take that easy option to bring the matter to a close ? the hon . Gentleman make a fair point . full and fair compensation lie at the heart of this matter , and we do not want people to feel that the £ 600 , 000 be the only option for get compensation in quick time . it be there for those who want to take the money , walk away and draw a line under the matter , particularly where they think their claim be below that figure . as the hon . Gentleman might have hear I say early , on the recommendation of the advisory board and other involve in the process , as soon as a full claim be receive , individual in the overturn conviction cohort will get their interim compensation of £ 163 , 000 top up immediately to £ 450 , 000 . that will ease the financial pressure and reduce what he suggest might be an incentive for people to take a low amount than they deserve . a significant amount of money will be pay forward on that basis while the remainder of the compensation claim can be properly assess . I echo some of the word of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) . I have an email overnight from a lady in Australia whose father be prosecute by the DWP . he have be extremely ill , and he be give a six - month prison sentence for a crime he do not commit . from the statement this afternoon it be clear that the scope of the Bill will apply only to prosecution from the CPS and Post Office Ltd . those who receive a sentence from the DWP will therefore be outside the scope of the new law . that can not be right , Minister . we have look at this very carefully . in all the appeal base on DWP case , the conviction have be uphold thus far . clearly it be rare that we take the kind of route that we be take now , in summarily overturn conviction . we see that the evidence bar be much high in those case . as I say early , there be surveillance of suspect and collation and examination of cash order from steal benefit book and girocheque , so there be a significant evidence base for these conviction . I would point out that people can still technically appeal their conviction . they can go through the normal Court of Appeal route . I would be happy to have a discussion with my hon . friend afterwards to discuss this far if that would be helpful . after 14 year of campaign on behalf of my constituent , Mr and Mrs Rudkin , and the other sub - postmaster who be victim , I welcome our now have almost a weekly update on the compensation scheme . I also welcome the Minister ' s announcement of more generous interim payment for the victim , but I have to disagree when he say that the sub - postmaster Horizon scandal be unprecedented . I be think of the infected blood scandal , the so - call Gulf war syndrome repayment scandal and the banking fraud scandal , and of course the House will have the vaccine death and vaccine harm scandal to look forward to , which will overshadow everything that have come before . do the Minister think that those would benefit from a docudrama ? the hon . Gentleman outline particular scandal , but my responsibility extend only as far as the Post Office in that regard . as he know , I come to the House quite often and I probably have enough on my plate in deal with this issue right now . I thank he for all the campaigning he have do from the Back Benches on this issue and I very much hope that Mr and Mrs Rudkin get the compensation they deserve as soon as possible . the Minister often come to the Chamber to discuss this scandal , and I just wish that Ministers in other Departments , deal with other scandal , come as often as he do , for which I compliment he . will he Minister confirm that all those with overturn conviction will be compensate before the general election ? I thank the right hon . Lady for all her work on this subject and on the infected blood scandal . I contribute to that work as a Back Bencher , and I understand that £ 400 million have be pay out in interim compensation , but I know she will not rest until all the people she represent get full and final compensation . on overturned conviction , not everything be within our gift . we be summarily overturn conviction en masse , and we hope to do that very quickly . we plan to table legislation next month , and we hope to overturn all the conviction by July . that will open the door to compensation through the two different route . we be somewhat at the mercy of claim be submit , which can take time . the £ 600 , 000 route be much quick . I can not say when the general election will be , so I can not answer yes to the right hon . Lady ' s specific question , but I very much hope we will do so . our original date be August , and we hope to get everybody compensate by the end of this year . we will do everything we can to ensure that be the case . we understand why the legislation to overturn conviction must be limit , but we have hear today from the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) about conviction that be secure through other system and other prosecutor . what assessment have be make of the likely number of people who have be wrongfully convict outside the boundary that have be set ? what might be make available for people who want to bring their own appeal against wrongful conviction but who can not make use of the forthcoming legislation ? it be fair to say that we can all now see a significant body of evidence show that these be wrongful conviction , which be why we be act in this unprecedented way . if the hon . Lady be refer to the Capture case , we do not have that body of evidence thus far . we think the DWP case be a different cohort because of the evidential standard . we be act in this way because we do not think the evidential standard for Horizon be of the right level , and clearly a number of different factor be involve in these conviction . the DWP case be different . there be around 70 to 100 case in the DWP cohort , which mean that the vast majority of the 983 conviction will be overturn by this legislation . I want to raise again with the Minister the shortcoming of the Horizon shortfall scheme . my constituent , Mr Pennington , be a sub - postmaster for over 20 year , and for 11 of those year he have the stress and worry of continually have to pay back shortfall generate in error by the Horizon system . he have not receive back all that he be force to pay in , and he be offer only a derisory £ 1 , 500 for 11 year of stress and financial distress . I write to the Minister about this case five week ago , and I have still not receive a response . last week , the Business Secretary say that I will receive a letter very soon . how long will Mr Pennington have to wait for answer to his question after so many year of financial stress and worry ? I will chase that correspondence as soon as I leave the Chamber . I think I have sign the correspondence , and I apologise if the hon . Lady have not receive it . I will ensure that she receive it at the early possible opportunity . I be familiar with the hon . Lady ' s case , have read about it and about the time she have raise it in the House and elsewhere . I be keen to look at this . the advisory board make recommendation about how we can make sure everyone feel that their settlement be fair . we be look at those recommendation , and I will get the letter to she as soon as I can . I thank the Minister for the urgency he have bring to try to resolve this terrible injustice . it seem that this have be against resistance from within the Post Office , where an attempt be still be make to cover up the negligence and incompetence of the management . may I take he back to the point he have make about this legislation apply to Northern Ireland ? I be not convinced of the reason he have give : first , that this be a devolved issue ; secondly , that the justice system be different in Northern Ireland ; and , thirdly , that he do not want to step on the foot of the judge in Northern Ireland . in the past , legislation have go through this House that have relate to the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland , with Northern Ireland be include as the result of a legislative consent motion . have he explore that opportunity with the Minister and the Executive in Northern Ireland ? have there be resistance from the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland or be it willing to co - operate if Northern Ireland be to be include ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point . I believe he have contribute to every debate in which I have be involve in this House on this matter , so I thank he for his work . clearly , justice and the judicial system be devolve to Northern Ireland . the difference here be that this be not simply legislate for general matter across the piece ; it be about overturn individual case , which I understand be unprecedented — it certainly be in my experience . we have engage with the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland , and I be happy to continue to do so and to talk to the right hon . Gentleman about the point he have raise . these be difficult decision to make . this be the decision we have take but , as I say , I be happy to have a further conversation with he . the sub - postmaster have no trust or faith in the compensation process be handle by the Post Office or the Government . today ' s commitment will still not deal with all the inequality in the scheme or the undue influence that the Post Office still have on the process . echo the sentiment of some of my hon . friend , may I ask the Minister to agree to place the compensation scheme into an external independent body , completely outside the influence of the Post Office ? I ask the Prime Minister , as my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) have ask , about the timescale for the legislation to overturn the conviction , but we still have not get an answer . if it be not before the general election , will it be before the summer recess ? finally , when will people be hold to account for this miscarriage of justice , be it within the Government , the Post Office or Fujitsu ? I thank the hon . Lady for her campaigning on this issue . again , she have be a key part of the campaign to ensure that people receive justice . let I deal with the point about fair compensation . as I say , on the GLO scheme , 41 of the 58 full claim that have be submit have be accept without even go to the next stage . that would tend to indicate that those first offer be fair . I be aware of some people who feel that their offer be not fair , but I think it be wrong to look at individual case in this context ; it be right that we look to make all the scheme fair . as for undue influence , let I be clear that every part of this process have an independent element to it . under the GLO scheme and the overturned conviction scheme , that be provide by retire judge , Sir Ross Cranston and Sir Gary Hickinbottom , in order to ensure that those scheme be independent of any " undue influence " , as she put it . clearly , the GLO scheme be not be run by the Post Office ; it be run by my Department . we be look at recommendation from the advisory board about what we do with new case of overturn conviction . on timescale , we have be clear today that we will table the legislation in March and we hope it complete its passage through both Houses by July at the late . again , that be not entirely within our gift . around this time last week , I reiterate my call on the Government to include Northern Ireland in this legislation , so I be disappointed to see that it apply only to England and Wales . there be a cross - party consensus in Northern Ireland for this House to take the legislation forward , and that include my colleague the Justice Minister , the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister . the Executive have just be restore and they have a large work programme to get through . we have a small number of case in Northern Ireland . do our own legislation would require disproportionate effort and would involve considerable delay , which would remove equity across the UK . let I reinforce the point make by my colleague the Justice Minister and ask : will the Minister reconsider the position as regard Northern Ireland and include it in the legislation ? I understand that that be relatively straightforward to do . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point and I be sorry to disappoint he . I understand last week that he might be disappoint in what we be about to announce later that day . I speak to the Justice Minister in Northern Ireland that day , as I want to talk to she before I inform the House of our intention . I will continue to engage with the hon . Gentleman and the Justice Minister , as will my colleague and official , to ensure there be no delay for the people affect in Northern Ireland . of course I be happy to have a continue conversation with he about that . I thank the Minister for his statement and his continued dedication to the victim of Horizon . will he apologise to my constituent Louise Dar , former sub - postmistress in Lenzie , for the devastating damage that Post Office Ltd and Horizon do to she and her family ' s life and livelihood ? will he ensure compensation be swiftly give to Louise and all other sub - postmaster ? I apologise without hesitation . what happen to Louise and her family be a disgrace . it should never have happen , and we should not be in this situation , but we be where we find ourselves . we now need to do exactly what the hon . Lady have set out : seek to deliver compensation as quickly as possible . if she would like a conversation about that case , I be happy to help where I can . I come to the House virtually every time we have question on this subject , or it be before the House , and I be take in by the Minister ' s mellifluous bromide about the compensation scheme . however , a letter from the chief executive of the Post Office , Nick Read , suggest that over half the conviction be safe and that the Post Office would defend they . furthermore , he say that the Post Office be take on expert police investigator to investigate the investigator , which be pour even more good money after bad . how can the sub - postmaster who have be convict and those who have be wrong by the Horizon scandal have any confidence in a scheme that be influence by the Post Office in any way ? in make decision , how much be the Government rely on information from investigation by the Post Office ? the hon . Gentleman do contribute virtually every single time the issue be discuss , and I thank he for that . it be hugely important for postmaster in his constituency and far afield that his voice be contribute to those call for the remedy need . I be aware of the letter on this issue from the Post Office ' s chief executive officer , and what he say ; it be his choice to write that letter . today ' s statement , and the one on Thursday , illustrate that the letter have no influence on we ; we think that introduce legislation be the right thing to do . we have always be clear that some guilty people will be make innocent through the process . we think that be a risk worth take — the least bad option . as for the influence on compensation and other matter for individual , we have ensure that there be independent process run right through the compensation scheme . the advisory board be hold our foot to the fire very effectively , and I welcome its work . I thank the Minister for his statement and his effort . he will be aware of correspondence from the Northern Ireland Executive and the Department of Justice ; my Northern Ireland colleague have allude to it . it be a rarity for three party in Northern Ireland to agree on something , but I believe it be outrageous that Northern Ireland be be exclude from the legislation . will the Minister redouble his effort and rethink that ? this Parliament be sovereign . time and again , this Parliament have intervene with law and legislation on devolved matter in Northern Ireland , so will he go away and urgently relook at this situation ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I can assure she that I will continue to engage with she on this matter , along with the relevant representative from the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland , as will our official . I understand her disappointment . I understand her preference , and the preference of some Ministers in the Justice Department , but we will continue that engagement and try to make sure that compensation in Northern Ireland be not deny or delay ; we do not want that in England and Wales , either . I thank the Minister for the update . he refer to officer , family member and direct employee . I wish to ask this on behalf of family member . the news over the weekend indicate that 250 victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal have pass away ; some of they have no knowledge whatsoever that their name would ever be clear , or that compensation would come . will the Minister say that every one of those people will have their family member compensate , that help and advice will be available , that they will receive an apology on behalf of their love one , and that this will be do as soon as possible ? I certainly apologise to all those people to whom the hon . member refer . I read the report this weekend about the number of people who have pass away . indeed , one of my constituent , Sam Harrison of Nawton in Helmsley — one of the original 555 — pass away last May prior to receive compensation , which be devastating for the family . just to be clear , those claim can still go forward and their estate will be compensate to the same degree . nevertheless , that be slim comfort in that situation . " family member " be those who have be directly affect by someone be convict or prosecute by the Post Office or the Crown Prosecution Service . other family member can be compensate under the wide process — for example , where a house have be lose or a bankruptcy have happen . they can benefit through route for compensation to the family in general . I be happy to have a discussion about everything that we need to look at in that area . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . order . the hon . Gentleman will find out that I like to observe the courtesy of the House . that conclude the proceeding on the statement . I thank the Minister and those on the Opposition Front Bench for their attendance . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . on 22 February , at 10 . 56 pm , in response to an accusation that Labour MPs have slow down the day ' s proceeding last Wednesday , the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) post this statement on social medium : " Labour do not slow it down . " in an interview with Cathy Newman publish on YouTube yesterday , he be ask : " be you put up to that filibuster , or do you take it upon yourself ? " . he respond : " a bit of both if I ' m honest . " Mr Deputy Speaker , as you will know , the hon . member for Rhondda be , until recently , the Chair of the Committee on Standards , and must surely be expect to hold himself to the high standard of behaviour , include in relation to honesty . he even write a book call " Code of Conduct : why we need to fix Parliament – and how to do it " . well , he certainly show we how to do it last week . can you advise I on what mechanism be available for an immediate investigation of the hon . member for Rhondda for bring this House into disrepute ? I be most grateful to the hon . gentleman for give I notice of this point of order . the ten - minute rule , give member leave to introduce a Bill , limit speech for and against to 10 minute each , and those speech be normally hear without interruption . it be not in order for member of this House to act in an obstructive manner by speak at inordinate length , which be what filibustering mean . accord to Hansard , the speech by the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) take no more than seven minute . as be clear from column 720 , the Chair be , as always , listen carefully to that speech to make sure that it be in order — and for verification , I be the Chair . it be not for the Chair to go into Member ' s motive for speak in the House , or the motive behind when and for how long they choose to speak , as long as when they do , they remain within the rule . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . Shell plc , a british company , have propose the sale of its nigerian subsidiary , the Shell Petroleum Development Company , spdc , raise serious concern that its environmental responsibility and obligation in the Niger delta could be evade . this be one of the most significant business and human right issue of our generation . Shell be responsible for some of the most brutal , violent , and repressive action by a company , in this case against community in the Niger delta . this include complicity in the execution of the Ogoni nine , include writer and human right activist Ken Saro - Wiwa . Shell ' s exit from the Niger delta could set a precedent for other british multinational operate in the global south that may be seek to evade responsibility for environmental destruction , leave community with little recourse to justice . in 2013 , the UK commit to enforce the United Nations principle on business and human right . I ask your advice about how this House can ensure that the Government do not allow Shell to leave behind an environmental catastrophe as it seek to exit the Niger delta . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give notice of his point of order . as he will be aware , that be not a matter for the Chair . he have until 12 . 30 pm on Wednesday next week to table an oral question to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office for Tuesday 11 March , and of course , as an experienced member , he know how to table an early - day motion , and how to apply for a general debate in Westminster Hall , a half - hour Adjournment debate or a Backbench Business debate . the Table Office will be pleased to advise he on other option . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance . on 29 November 2023 , I write to the Prime Minister ask he to correct an oversight in the autumn statement . although it include welcome additional funding to tackle antisemitism , it do not include an announcement of additional funding to tackle Islamophobia . three month later , I have yet to receive a response . the Government seem to have a blind spot when it come to Islamophobia — they can not even mention the word — and what happen at the weekend make that especially concern . they have still not fill the role of independent adviser on Islamophobia , and they refuse to say the word . may I have your guidance on how I might secure a reply from the Prime Minister , so that we can all work urgently to stamp out Islamophobia , antisemitism and all form of hate speech ? the hon . Lady will be well aware that the Chair be not responsible for ministerial correspondence or response . I seem to recall that in the dim and distant past , when I be on the Back Benches , I wait quite a long time for ministerial reply myself . I be quite sure that the usual channel will have hear what she have to say . if she wish for further advice , I be sure that the Table Office will be most willing to help . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance . my parliamentary assistant , Jill Brown , have just complete 50 year of continuous service to member of this House . she join the House in 1974 , in the service of John MacGregor , and subsequently work for Angela Watkinson and Nick Hurd , my predecessor . I seek your guidance on how the House may well acknowledge that exemplary record of service . yet again , that be not a point of order for the Chair . however , I be sure that the whole House will wish to join in congratulate and thank Jill Brown for her long and distinguished service to several member of this House . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . follow the point of order raise by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) , the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) not only say , " a bit of both if I ’ m honest " , but , " I think the whole day be grubby and we need a system which doesn ' t allow people to manipulate the rule to be able to get what they want . " the host of " Channel 4 News " then say that that be exactly what Labour do , to which the hon . member for Rhondda simply laugh , without add anything far . we all see in this Chamber a number of spurious point of order , and the hon . Gentleman ' s response to the ten - minute rule motion . the Leader of the opposition deny that any parliamentary chicanery take place . that be clearly not true , so how do I urge the Leader of the Opposition or the hon . member for Rhondda to come back to the House and correct the record to journalist relate to statement that the hon . Gentleman make outside this House ? I will go out on a limb and say that we probably all agree that the House do not cover itself in glory in that debate last week . that say , the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) be well aware that the Chair , and indeed officer of the House , be not responsible for remark make in the medium outside the House , so I be afraid that on that score , I can not assist he far . business of the House Ordered , that at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of the Prime Minister relate to Northern Ireland not later than three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Mr Baker . ) Northern Ireland I beg to move , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty welcome the return of the devolved institution in Northern Ireland , re - affirm the importance of uphold the Belfast ( Good Friday ) agreement 1998 in all its strand , acknowledge the foundational importance of the act of Union 1800 , include the economic provision under Article 6 of those act , and recognise that , consistent with section 23 ( 1 ) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , executive power in Northern Ireland shall continue to be vest in his Majesty , and that joint authority be not provide for in the Belfast ( Good Friday ) agreement 1998 in respect of the UK and irish Governments . I say to the House , and particularly to the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) , that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State would have want to be here to move the motion , but he be travel as he return from a regional Cabinet meeting , and he send his apology . we have now see the return of the devolved institution in Northern Ireland follow the publication of the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper last month . I believe that I speak for the whole House in welcome those extremely positive development , as Northern Ireland have be without a devolved Government for two year . I take this opportunity to congratulate the First Minister , Michelle o ' Neill , and , if I may , especially the Deputy First Minister , Emma Little - Pengelly , who , of course , we all know from her time in this House . I wish they both every success . if I may say so , I think the whole nation , which have be pay attention , will be astonish by the brilliance with which they be work together despite their difference on the constitutional question ; I , for one , be absolutely delighted . we have already see what can be do when the political party be back in government , work together to deliver for those who elect they . aid by the £ 3 . 3 billion funding package from the UK Government , the Executive have already decide to allocate over £ 685 million to allow conversation to commence between employer and trade union . the UK Government ' s significant , fair and generous spending settlement will also allow the Northern Ireland Executive to stabilise public service , well manage public finance , increase opportunity for improved infrastructure and investment , and pave the way for the transformation of public service . I very much look forward to work with the new First Minister , Deputy First Minister and all their ministerial colleague to deliver those share objective , and I eagerly await the Executive ' s sustainability plan for Northern Ireland ' s finance , include proposal for revenue raising , follow the Secretary of State ' s discussion with the political party on those issue at Hillsborough Castle before Christmas . I move this Humble Address to welcome the return of devolution and far honour the Government ' s commitment in the Command Paper to provide a mechanism for Parliament to affirm its commitment to the act of Union , and to outline that there be no basis in the Belfast agreement for joint authority arrangement with the Government of Ireland . the UK Government ' s commitment to the Belfast agreement , in its totality and all its facet , be resolute and unfaltering . this Humble Address read like a love letter to the DUP — I just caution the DUP not to get too comfortable , because I be not sure that it will be a forever love . a couple of week ago , the Secretary of State say in this House that we need the majority " consent of both " the Unionist community and the nationalist community to achieve constitutional change in Ireland . I write to he after that ask he to correct the record , because , of course , we only need a simple majority to see constitutional change in Ireland . he write back to I correct what he have say , but he have not correct the record in this House . will the Minister take this opportunity to do so , please ? I will correct the record : all that be require be a simple majority , just as the hon . Gentleman say . I be sure that we all regret the confusion that have arise . I will later in my speech address specifically some of the point that he have raise , but I will return they in due course if he will allow I . the restoration of the strand 1 institution be welcome news . I be hopeful that we will soon also see the North South Ministerial Council and other strand 2 implementation body return to full operation , alongside the meeting of the british - Irish Council and the british - Irish Intergovernmental Conference that be already schedule to take place in the come month and which I have attend in the past . that three - strand approach — that delicate and careful balance — honour the spirit and letter of the agreement , provide a fitting tribute to those brave man and woman who , some 26 year ago , help to deliver the agreement that be the bedrock of so much peace , stability and progress in Northern Ireland . this Humble Address also rightly acknowledge the foundational importance of the act of Union 1800 , include the economic provision under article 6 of those act . the Government be clear that the new arrangement commit to in the Command Paper , include the UK internal market system , ensure the smooth flow of trade across the UK . as the House know , we have already legislate to those end . the final part of this Humble Address relate to the constitutional status of Northern Ireland . as Unionists , it be important that this Government emphasise how much Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom be value and respect , both in law and in practice . nevertheless , our appreciation of Northern Ireland within the UK be set in the context of respect the core principle and relationship at the heart of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . at the heart of that agreement be the principle of consent . that mean that Northern Ireland will remain an integral part of the United Kingdom , with the act of Union and the economic right under article 6 properly respect and protect in law and with the sovereignty of Parliament undiminishe , rule out joint authority between London and Dublin , which we will not countenance . when I last ask he in the House , the Secretary of State assure we that this House can now legislate for vat in Northern Ireland , which be a very welcome assurance . can the Minister explain how far the EU can go in legislate for Northern Ireland if we in the Unionist community be not very happy with that ? I refer my right hon . friend to the table on page 4 of the Command Paper , which answer his question somewhat more broadly . that table compare Northern Ireland to Ireland as an illustrative member state and Norway as a european economic area state , and go through the way in which the status of Northern Ireland , EU membership and EEA membership differ . anyone look at that table can see that Northern Ireland be in a completely different place . when it come to the specific issue of the extent to which Northern Ireland can be legislate for by the EU , I refer my right hon . friend to the democratic consent mechanism for the overall arrangement — the first vote on which will take place later in the year — and also to the Stormont brake , to which we could return but which we have cover in previous debate . I have know my right hon . friend very well for a number of year ; I have follow his thought on this issue since some year before I be a Member , and I be reluctant to give he a very specific answer on the issue of vat . I know he will have follow the detail , and the last thing I want to do be give he an incorrect answer . no , I have have an answer on that . if my right hon . friend will agree , I would like to have a meeting with he , because I be very clear that the scope of law that can apply in Northern Ireland be that which be necessary to ensure the smooth flow of good . I have say before at this Dispatch Box that we be always go to have special arrangement for Northern Ireland . when I resign from the then Government in 2018 , the issue that I force among our colleague in the European Research Group be that of Northern Ireland . we write a paper that say that there would need to be alternative administrative and technical arrangement so that there could be an open border with the Republic of Ireland . we understand that there would be special arrangement . there be never go to be an open border with no arrangement to deal with it , and there be never go to be a hard border ; it be always go to be necessary to do something unique and special in Northern Ireland . as I have also say at this Dispatch Box , have this country go forward with one united voice in accept the referendum result , and have this country enjoy the good quality of relation with Ireland and the EU that we enjoy today , we might have do well than leave in place some EU law in Northern Ireland . I wish we have , but after all we have be through and the eight year it have take to do it , I think that this settlement take overall — the Windsor framework plus the Command Paper , include the Humble Address we be debate today — represent the moment to bank what I regard as a win and move forward constructively in the good interest of all the people of the UK , but also the people of the Republic of Ireland . let I reassure the Minister that the Secretary of State give I a very clear assurance in this House that we can legislate for vat for Northern Ireland — so I be not quite sure why he be query that . the Secretary of State have make that clear , but I have some nervousness when talk to my right hon . friend because of the extent and difficulty of the walk he and I have have together ; I know how powerfully he feel about these issue . I be very clear that the EU can only legislate in relation to the good law that remain in place and we have have the very clear assurance on vat , but if he have any further doubt or concern about this , I would appreciate the opportunity to sit down with he , go through it in great detail and answer all his question , even if he be not 100 % satisfied . as I have say — I think now for the fifth or sixth time — I know that leave in place some EU law in Northern Ireland be a hard compromise for Unionists and Eurosceptics . it be a hard compromise for I , as I know it be a hard compromise for he . nevertheless , eight year on , we have deliver what I would regard as alternative arrangement in Northern Ireland — something we be once tell be magical thinking and worthy of unicorn . do the Minister of State join I in welcome the fact that we currently have the first applicability motion be bring before the Assembly ? it be a change to the previous arrangement and enable the Assembly to vote on whether a change to an EU law can apply in Northern Ireland . furthermore , under the auspex of the Assembly ' s newly establish Democratic Scrutiny Committee , the Assembly will be able to block the application of new EU law and refer it to the UK Government for further consideration , and that ultimately the UK Government can veto that law be apply in Northern Ireland . while imperfect , these arrangement represent very substantial progress from where we be , which be an automatic pipeline of EU law , with no opportunity for scrutiny , and no opportunity to block or veto such a law . we be certainly in a well place than we be before these new arrangement . I be most grateful to the right hon . member . of course I welcome these arrangement . I be very pleased to give instruction to my official that the Assembly should be notify . beyond that , on the particular measure , I do not wish to go any far at all , because I be absolutely determined that this should be a matter for the Assembly , with the UK Government step back and leave it to the democratic consent of mla . will the Minister give way ? I will give way once more , but I think I should then make a little more progress . the Minister do not want to be in a position where he be the gift that keep on give to certain people . I would like clarity on this issue of vat , because it be clear up from the Dispatch Box before that the EU would have no say on vat matter . a Minister of the Crown should be able to say , from the Dispatch Box , that the EU have no impact and no say whatsoever on the issue of vat . I come to this very directly on behalf of a constituent who have already write to I . in the last two week , he have receive notification that , before he can purchase machinery , he have to provide an eori — economic operator registration and identification — number , which be a Republic of Ireland vat mechanism . he do not trade in the Republic of Ireland and he have nothing to do with the Republic of Ireland , yet he have be ask by our authority to provide an eori before he purchase equipment in the United Kingdom for trade within the United Kingdom . this have to be clear up , and it have to be clear up pretty fast . the assurance be give on vat , and I stand by that assurance . before this moment , I be not aware of the particular circumstance that the hon . Member have just share with I . I encourage he either to write to I or to come to see I — perhaps to do both — and let we get to the bottom of it . one thing I be sure of be that we want to get through all these tricky issue as smoothly , transparently and effectively as possible in the good interest of the people of Northern Ireland , because it really be time to move on , get public service reform , get the government there on to a sustainable basis and allow people to get on with life as usual . rise — I must give way to the hon . member once more , but then I think I will finish . the point be actually in the Humble Address — and the Government seem to be go out of their way both in the Command Paper and the Humble Address to make the point — that , in the Good Friday agreement and the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , there be no provision for joint authority . of course , we all know — those of we who have be around long enough — that many thing have change since then , not least at St Andrews . but , that aside , would the Minister confirm to this House that there be also no provision in the Good Friday agreement or the 1998 Act for direct rule from London ? Strand 1 be of course a matter for the United Kingdom , and while Northern Ireland be within the United Kingdom , everyone would expect we to make Northern Ireland work within the UK . although there be no provision for direct rule , I gently point out to the hon . Gentleman that we go to some length , and at some cost , not to return to direct rule at this time . we have allow event to evolve as they have precisely because we do not wish to return to direct rule . we be extremely grateful that there be a return Executive in Northern Ireland , but we have a responsibility to all citizen of Northern Ireland to ensure that they be govern effectively . that be why we have put in place the arrangement that we make , and I for one be grateful that we do not have to go any far . will the Minister give way ? oh my word : we be go to have a general debate on the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . I be grateful to the Minister . his remark about ensure that this work for all our citizen have spark I to life . will he set out the Government ' s approach to reform of the institution ? as he know , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee produce a comprehensive report on the issue , which to date the Government have simply say that they " note " . there be still a risk that the institution will collapse , and the same reason that allow they to collapse in the past be still there . hopefully they will not collapse , but that be the danger . will he assure we that he and his colleague will work closely with the Irish Government and the party in Northern Ireland to ensure a proper examination of the rule on the institution , to ensure that we do not end up in the same mess that we have have twice over the past seven year ? I be most grateful — although after this I will plunge far into my speech , because I want to conclude it . our position be very clear that any change must come from the party in Northern Ireland . that be not to say we be uninterested — I have personally be through an exercise of consider all the possible reform that there could be . at the end of that lengthy exercise , I conclude that no plan for reform of the institution and their operation would work if it be drive by yours truly . it be essential that this conversation come from the party in Northern Ireland . I do not doubt that we will wish to note and take interest in such a conversation , but it be for the hon . Gentleman and his colleague , who be well represent on the opposition Benches , to move such a conversation forward . that be not something that the UK Government will be drive forward . it be vital that the new Executive now have the space to get on with govern Northern Ireland and do what be very much need . will the Minister give way ? I say that I be go to press on , but my colleague be the first Conservative Member to intervene on this theme , so I will give way . I be grateful to the Minister . the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) early describe the statement as a " love letter to the DUP " , but I see it more as a love letter to Northern Ireland , and the huge opportunity that can be seize from realise what he and his colleague , work with all party in Northern Ireland , have manage to pull together . do he agree that an interesting statistic about Northern Ireland this year be the huge increase in the number of business register there ? I think it be up by 60 % in the last year alone . surely that be a great sign of the confidence that people and business now have in the opportunity in Northern Ireland . I certainly agree about the extraordinary opportunity before Northern Ireland . the Belfast / Good Friday agreement and the Northern Ireland Act 1998 be explicit that any change to the constitutional status of Northern Ireland would require the consent of a simple majority of its people . the UK Government be absolutely clear that there be no basis to suggest that at present a majority of people in Northern Ireland wish to separate from the UK . our position be therefore straightforward : Northern Ireland have a bright and prosperous future within the Union , for as long as the people of Northern Ireland wish it . that position do not diminish the right of other to pursue through democratic and peaceful mean their aspiration for other outcome . we all remain committed to build and strengthen the three set of relationship at the heart of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . the restoration of the political institution at Stormont will enable critical relationship across and between community in Northern Ireland to be strengthen , with vital work on build reconciliation to be take forward in the month and year ahead . there be new opportunity to strengthen co - operation in the relationship between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland from outside the EU . this co - operation do not threaten Northern Ireland ' s constitutional status , but it can help to build economic prosperity and deliver vital investment in infrastructure . as a UK Government , we also recognise the need to invest in east - west relationship , not only within the United Kingdom , as with the new UK East - West Council , but through the other institution , such as the british - Irish Council and the intergovernmental conference . I be hearten to hear what the Minister have say about the importance of the east - west connection . sometimes there be not enough emphasis on those , so I be keen to hear what the Minister will do to ensure that those happen with a much more concrete attitude , as well as what he will do on Ulster Scots and the culture . it be not only east - west in the UK that be important , but east - west to the USA . those be some of the thing I feel we should be do . I know we will hear from my hon . friend many time on these issue , and he have a great deal to contribute . I will see to it , particularly with this new role I have jointly with the Cabinet Office , that the Command Paper be vigorously implement with all the strength I can muster to get it do at a speed that suit he and I . I will update the House in due course as we make progress . I certainly want the whole House and all the people of Northern Ireland to know what we be do and when we be do it , and to see that we be make progress with vigour . I certainly commit to do that . I have have this joint role with the Windsor framework taskforce for a week , and I have make some progress , but I hope he will understand that I be not ready today to commit to a timeline to all the institution be up and run . we certainly will proceed with vigour . our exit from the EU should not mean that co - operation and friendship be diminish . rather , it compel we all to work hard to invest in and strengthen all the relationship that be important to the people within these island and across Europe . our independent status should in no way diminish our friendship . I commend this Humble Address to the House . whether this Humble Address be or be not a love letter to anyone , I will leave for other to debate , but it certainly can be describe as a coda to the recent restoration of the institution in Northern Ireland . as we have hear from the Minister , it address a number of matter that I shall briefly touch upon , but may I make it clear at the beginning that the opposition will be support it ? this be our first opportunity as a House to welcome the return of devolved government , and I wish to acknowledge the leadership of the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) in recognise that , for the sake of Northern Ireland and its people , the DUP need to return to government , and in argue the case for that course of action so persuasively . the Secretary of State and I have both have the pleasure of meet the new First Minister and Deputy First Minister . I must say that I agree with the Minister of State , the right hon . member for Wycombe ( Mr Baker ) , that they have make a positive start and have set the tone for what we all hope will be a constructive and productive Administration . I join he in wish both of they , together with the other member of the Executive and indeed the whole Assembly , every success in their responsibility , because their task — our task , collectively — be to ensure that this restoration endure . let we be frank , however . I hope people will also recognise that never again should Northern Ireland find itself without its Assembly and its devolved government . it be also right that we reaffirm our support for the Good Friday agreement in all its strand and dimension . it be important for we to do so , because the agreement make possible the considerable progress we have see in Northern Ireland , include the establishment of power sharing . that reaffirming be also need because there be a perception that some of the language in the recent Command Paper be not wholly in keep with the spirit of share commitment . I will raise one section of the Command Paper that I find genuinely puzzling , which be what it say about the all - island economy and the Government ' s commitment to remove the legal duty to have regard to the all - island economy in section 10 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 . that section of the withdrawal Act actually refer to have " due regard to the joint report from the negotiator of the EU and the United Kingdom Government on progress during phase 1 of negotiation under article 50 " on the United Kingdom ' s orderly withdrawal from the EU . the report run to 15 page , but there appear , as far as I can see , to be only one reference in it to the all - island economy , in the last two line of paragraph 49 . in respond , can the Minister explain what the effect would be of repeal section 10 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the 2018 Act , give that it refer to the whole of the joint report , and not just to the reference in paragraph 49 to the all - island economy ? do that mean Ministers would no long have to have regard to anything at all in the joint report — surely that can not be the case — or be the Government say that they wish to remove the reference to the all - island economy in paragraph 49 ? in that case , give that it be a joint report agree between the United Kingdom and the European Union , have Ministers tell the EU of their intention ? to follow up , when might we see the legislation and the new statutory guidance ? no one be in any doubt that Northern Ireland do far more trade with the UK internal market than it do with Ireland , and that will continue to be the case , but it be also evident that trade between Northern Ireland and the Republic have increase since we leave the European Union . that tell we that the all - island economy be both a fact and greatly to the benefit of business and people in Northern Ireland , whether that be milk from Northern Ireland go south to be process , or Coca - Cola produce in the firm ' s flagship plant in Lisburn be sell all over Ireland and beyond , or Guinness come north from Dublin . the right hon . Gentleman have rightly identify one of the impact of the Windsor framework and the Northern Ireland protocol : namely , that trade be now be divert to the Irish Republic , as firm in Northern Ireland find it more difficult to link with their supply chain in GB and be force to look at supply from the Irish Republic . some of the people who be now purchase from the Republic tell I that those supply be more expensive and of low quality . the first point I would make to the right hon . Gentleman be that the three example I have just give have nothing at all to do with the Northern Ireland protocol or the Windsor framework ; they be all pre - exist fact of the all - island economy , which those business welcome because it be about the ability to trade , find market , sell their good and make a return . secondly , he return , understandably , to the essential problem that the protocol and the Windsor framework have be try to address , and it be the point that the Minister make openly in his speech , which be that once we leave the EU , there be an issue about the border . one way or another , a way have to be find to ensure that good move across that non - existent border comply with the rule of the single market . the current Government under a previous Prime Minister make a choice as to how it be go to be do . I strongly support the Windsor framework , precisely because it be an important step forward in try to make that trade , as the Minister refer to , as easy as possible for business . I make that point because many business do not really understand why the phrase " all - island economy " should provoke such strong feeling , especially when there have recently be a warm welcome to the allocation from the share island fund for cross - community project that will strengthen the all - island economy , include the much - need improvement to the A5 , a more regular train service between Belfast and Dublin , the Narrow Water bridge connect the county of Down and Meath , and a contribution to the building of Casement Park so that , in four year , we can all celebrate Northern Ireland help to host the european football championship . I make that point because many business do not really understand why the phrase " all - island economy " should provoke such strong feeling , especially when there have recently be a warm welcome to the allocation from the share island fund for cross - community project that will strengthen the all - island economy , include the much - need improvement to the A5 , a more regular train service between Belfast and Dublin , the Narrow Water bridge connect the county of Down and Meath , and a contribution to the building of Casement Park so that , in four year , we can all celebrate Northern Ireland help to host the european football championship . nevertheless , we warmly endorse the renew commitment to the Good Friday agreement contain in the Humble Address , which of course be the then Government ' s extraordinary achievement with all the party involve in the negotiation almost 26 year ago . it be only right that we should remind ourselves as a country of the peace that it have create and of the obligation we take on when we sign it . that include , as the Minister say , recognition that the future constitutional status of Northern Ireland be a matter for the people of Northern Ireland alone , and that with our co - guarantor , the Irish Government , we have a share interest in continue to promote peace , prosperity and progress north and south . on the next section , when I read the Humble Address I wonder in pass when the act of Union 1800 be last refer to in a motion table by the Government . in the light of recent event , I feel that I should familiarise myself with the original act , although they have , of course , be considerably amend since . the Act of Union ( Ireland ) 1800 be short by modern standard — they know how to say thing much more briefly than we seem to manage these day — and contain a number of interesting provision , include the application of tariff and excise on certain category of good move between Great Britain and Ireland . the right hon . member for Lagan Valley raise that point with I when we debate the matter recently . now , I do not think anyone want to restore tariff and excise on certain category of good move , and I do not think anyone want to restore section 21 of the Government of Ireland Act 1920 , which require that movement of good between Great Britain and Northern Ireland be treat as import and export for the purpose of form to be use and the information to be furnish . as we be tell , custom officer be instruct to conduct physical inspection of ship with daily sailing twice weekly . how many people even recall that , in 1947 , the Stormont Parliament introduce a requirement that worker from Great Britain would need a work permit to go and work in Northern Ireland ? those be not just interesting historical fact . as the Command Paper ' s informative annex point out — congratulation to the civil servant who do the research and draft that — the act of Union have not be a guarantor at all time of free and unfettered movement of good and people over the century . instead , they have frame a slightly more complex relationship than be sometimes suggest . the shadow Secretary of State be absolutely right . that be why , in our seven test , we talk about fulfil the act of Union , while other — those who have not bother to read the original act of Union , who do not know what they be talk about , who seek to rewrite history and who declare themselves as the champion of Unionism but do not know their fact — talk about restore something , which would mean custom check on good move between Northern Ireland and Great Britain , and tariff on good manufacture in Northern Ireland be sell in Great Britain . that be the kind of nonsense that our detractor daily pump out . they should check their fact , know their history and understand what they be talk about . may I say to the right hon . Gentleman that we have just have a wonderful example of the persuasive power of his argument ? whoever we be , and whatever view we hold , get the fact right be really quite basic to do our job in this place . that be why it be important — especially in the context of Northern Ireland — to get those fact right . I turn to the last part of the Humble Address , which be simply talk about fact . it state the fact that this House retain the right to legislate in respect of Northern Ireland , and it be simply a fact that the Good Friday agreement and the Northern Ireland Act 1998 do not provide for joint authority with the Irish Government over what happen inside Northern Ireland . that be also acknowledge by the Irish Government . but , at the same time — I welcome what the Minister say — we must do all we can to foster and strengthen the share institution establish under strand 3 of the Good Friday agreement , not least because we have make most progress on this difficult matter when we have have a close work relationship with the Irish Government . in conclusion , return to the first section of the Humble Address , may I simply say that I look forward to work with all — and I mean all — member of the House and of the Northern Ireland Assembly , and also with the Executive , as together we turn our mind to the task in hand , which be now simply to build a bright and a well future for the people of Northern Ireland ? I have almost lose count of the number of time I have take to my foot in this Chamber to say that Northern Ireland be govern well when it be govern locally . at last , we can now say that will be the case . no doubt , in term of the agreement — the settlement that have be reach — there will be imperfection , compromise and asymmetry , and element that be not for the self - appoint purist . however , there be certainly enough there for the pragmatist to allow for the progress that need to be make . over the course of my time speak for the Scottish National party on northern irish issue , I have have the great pleasure of serve as a member of the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly . understandably , much bandwidth in that organisation have be take up with Brexit and its aftermath , the result fallout — and indeed many of the occasional falling out that have result . however , when my committee meet in Edinburgh last week , there be a definite change in the tone of conversation outside the formal business . I hope I be not put word in any Members ' mouth by say that there be a pleasure , a realism , certainly an optimism , and definitely a realism about recent development , but the key thing be that nobody be any long ask about when might Stormont return ; rather , it be what would now be do by Stormont to improve the lot of people in Northern Ireland now that it have return . within the agreement , one of the area that leap out — I hope that , in time , Ministers will expand on their vision for it — be the East - West Council to deal with matter of business , education and culture across that east - west axis . even from the perspective of a hard - bite scottish nationalist much like myself , that open up a great deal of useful space potentially to share and develop all that we have in common , all that we continue to have in common , and all that we will have in common and which will endure regardless of wherever our respective constitutional journey happen to conclude in future . part of the engagement that the hon . Gentleman and I have have together be on his visit to my constituency of Strangford , where he have the opportunity to look at joint matter that we could agree on , such as fishing issue include visa for fisherman , and cultural issue . we take he to meet many community group and other organisation as well . do he agree that one of the important thing for he and I be that , although we have different opinion on the constitution , we can agree on many thing ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . yes , when we put the constitution to one side , there be indeed many issue that can be agree on or work on together . that be why I find that the space that that council might offer quite compelling . it be certainly something of great interest . now that politic in Northern Ireland have indeed move on , it be perhaps time for I to hop once again on the Loganair flight from Aberdeen and perhaps renew some acquaintance . in the many word we hear throughout the Brexit debate on where Northern Ireland find itself snag , we often hear a rather boilerplate expression about a " precious Union " . that strike my ear . those word be easy — perhaps too easy at time — for many in this place to pay lip service to without actually follow through on they in practice . sometimes it be easy to say thing , but it be much hard to reflect . it seem to we that the desire for a particular form of Brexit — favour only by a small minority hide behind a small majority in one part of the Union — be give primacy and priority , and be allow to prevail over the clear wish of other constituent part of the Union . for many , however they vote in the scottish independence referendum in 2014 , that reopen that debate and encourage they to reappraise the position that they might have take at that time . I can certainly understand why the Humble Address before we be word in this manner . the key word that the Minister have , in effect , concede be imply but left unspoken be consent , where it apply to the executive power be vest in his Majesty . that be interesting to I for a number of reason . union by consent be how many of we in Scotland understand our position in the Union to work . but unlike Northern Ireland , we have nothing similar in statute to the wording of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , explain what happen if a majority of those vote in Scotland be to express a wish to cease to be part of the UK . I would contend that in all part of the Union there should be a way to demonstrate how consent have be withdraw by the people , if it be be withdraw . follow the event of the last few day , just like this Parliament , maintain that consent will be judge by how the institution of the Union treat its minority and be see to act with integrity in all that it do . in conclusion , we on the SNP Benches wish the people of Northern Ireland and their institution well . we look forward to see their politician and those institution play a full role in those body , be they north , south , east or west , and to see the Good Friday agreement move forward in all its strand , as we always hope it would , to allow a peaceful , prosperous Northern Ireland to continue to come to term with its past and be at ease in build its share future , whatever its people decide that future ought to look like . I thank the Minister of State for lead this debate today and for his word . I also thank the Shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) . it be good to hear that common approach to recognise the settle will of the people of Northern Ireland , which be that we should remain part of the United Kingdom . that do not prevent other from pursue their aspiration by peaceful and democratic mean . this Parliament be reflect the settle will of the people of Northern Ireland . it be the first time in almost 27 year in this House that I have hear great clarity speak about the Government ' s approach to Northern Ireland and their desire to value Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom and , for as long as it be the will of the people of Northern Ireland , about bind our Union together more strongly so that it deliver for everyone . that be what we be in the business of do , and it be deliver for all the people of Northern Ireland . I welcome the motion before we this evening and its reaffirmation of the constitutional basis for Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom , whether that be the act of Union or the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , enshrine within it the principle of consent , which be long fight for by Unionists in Northern Ireland but be undermine by the Northern Ireland protocol . it be important for people in Northern Ireland to hear that reassert and reaffirm , and to understand that this be the position not only of the Government of the United Kingdom , but of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . it be important to preserve those core principle at the heart of the Belfast agreement . it be frustrating for we when the European Union claim that the protocol be design to safeguard the Belfast or Good Friday agreement and the political institution when , in fact , it have the opposite effect because it do not have the support or consent of the Unionist community . I welcome the return of devolution in Northern Ireland . I be a committed devolutionist . I believe that a properly function devolve Government , deliver for all our people , will cement Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom because people will be comfortable living , work and raise their family in the place that we call home . I believe that the decision to foist the protocol on Northern Ireland , which have be reject by every single Unionist Member of the Legislative Assembly , be a mistake . I be glad that we have go a long way towards correct the harm do by the protocol to Northern Ireland and to the very delicate political balance at the heart of how Northern Ireland operate , underpin once again the principle — such as consent — which ensure that Northern Ireland move forward on the basis of a cross - community consensus . that be how power sharing operate . that be how devolution can deliver for people in Northern Ireland . the lesson from Northern Ireland over the past 25 year be the need for that consensus from both Unionists and nationalist at every major juncture . this be a universal lesson in any divided society . in 2019 in this House , the former Member for North Belfast , now the noble Lord Dodds , stand in this House and warn we that to proceed with the deal with only the support of one side would be a short - term fix and would undermine devolution in the long term . he be right . that be why it be important that we all commit ourselves today never to do this again , and always to do what we can to underpin and strengthen the need for that cross - community consensus in Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland will move forward only when we move forward together . leave one side behind only store up problem for the future . many believe that we would not succeed in renegotiate the protocol . at time we be warn — not least by the Irish Government and other — that that would simply not happen . I be pleased that , thank to the decisive action take by my party , we get to a point where the EU come back to the negotiating table and progress be make . we have build upon that progress through the measure that have be set forward in the Command Paper " safeguard the Union " . our objective be to remove the border in the UK internal market — those unnecessary check on good move from Great Britain to Northern Ireland and remain within the United Kingdom . there be no need for the check and the custom procedure that be impose under the protocol because those good be not leave the United Kingdom . they do not present a risk to the European Union and its single market . the desire and the objective of remove those internal barrier to trade within the United Kingdom internal market be also a desire to ensure that we continue to have our privileged access to the EU single market . the shadow Secretary of State be right to say that our big market be Great Britain . we sell £ 12 billion worth of good each year , manufacture in Northern Ireland , to Great Britain . we sell £ 8 billion a year to the European Union . it be an important market for we . it be an important market for business in my constituency and in all the constituency of my right hon . and hon . friend . maintain access to that market be , therefore , important , but we be always clear that it should not be on the basis of restrict access to our big market , the rest of the United Kingdom . I welcome the legislation that be introduce and have now be pass by both Houses of Parliament to strengthen our unfettered access to the market in Great Britain , and to safeguard our supply chain from Great Britain to Northern Ireland , ensure that where good stay within the UK internal market , they flow freely . we look forward to the further measure and legislation under the Command Paper proposal to deliver on the Government ' s commitment to restore Northern Ireland ' s place within the UK internal market . I will not go into the detail , as we have rehearse well what the Command Paper propose , but I recognise that concern remain within unionist rank about how it will operate in practice . there be more work to be do . I acknowledge that and we acknowledge that as a party . we will continue to work together with the Government to ensure that where more work be need , it be take forward and complete . that include on area such as veterinary medicine , in which my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) have take a particular interest . he will be involve in work with the Government to take forward a piece of work to ensure Northern Ireland ' s access to veterinary medicine be protect for the future . there be more work to be do on the so - call red lane , which deal with good travel in transit from Great Britain via Northern Ireland into the European Union , or good that be deem at risk , for example intermediate good use in manufacturing where the product be sell to the European Union . we need to ensure that good travel into the red lane be only those require for the purpose of satisfy the requirement and standard that the EU set for entry to its single market . there be more work to be do on that . the Minister will work with we — he have already commit to do that . we welcome the fact that already , as a result of the recent agreement reach between the UK Government and the European Union , Northern Ireland will benefit from free trade agreement that the UK enter into with other country , so that good enter the UK and travel into Northern Ireland will not have to go through the red lane , and will not be subject to check and custom procedure . that represent over 12 , 500 tonne of good move across the Irish sea ; some 4 million good movement that have be remove from the red lane and go into the UK internal market system . that be the kind of progress we can make and will continue to make to address the outstanding issue . the right hon . Gentleman know how much I value his work and the leadership he have show . on change at EU level , the announcement by Maro š Š ef č ovi č in the Joint Committee about good at risk demonstrate the point he make so well . this be not just some internal reorganisation ; it have international ramification . that really should demonstrate to business in Northern Ireland that this be a serious change that will benefit they . as he say , we can work through the problem and work out some of the other glitch to get they resolve as well . I commend he on that point . I thank the Chairman of the Select Committee for his comment . I believe the challenge we face as a result of the measure impose under the protocol be now be properly and adequately address . for example , many good make to british standard in Great Britain be ban from our supermarket shelf in Northern Ireland . that be no long the case . british good make to british standard be now available on our supermarket shelf . there be more work to be do and more progress to be make in that respect . this be ongoing work that we will build on . my right hon . friend be talk about specific case in relation to good . will he confirm that the intention behind the legislation be for the Government to make a positive case to company that have stop sell to Northern Ireland for whatever reason — whether green lane or red lane — to re - engage and trade with Northern Ireland again ? my hon . friend make an important point , which I be come on to but be worth mention now . not only do the Command Paper set out the practical and legal change that will occur to restore Northern Ireland ' s place within the UK internal market , but the establishment of the UK East - West Council will also help to bind Northern Ireland more closely to the rest of the United Kingdom . I welcome the comment by the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) , who take a keen interest in Northern Ireland . in fairness to he he recognise , notwithstanding his aspiration in relation to Scotland ' s future , that there be real value in Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland and England work more closely together , whether on trade , share our experience on education , or share the richness of our heritage and our culture . those thing be important . the new UK East - West Council will ensure a more join - up approach , so that there be more work together and more co - operation across the whole United Kingdom . on the specific point my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) make , the establishment of the new Intertrade UK body will ensure that a proactive approach be take in instance where business in Great Britain have decide that make their good available to customer in Northern Ireland be not worth the hassle . those business will be approach . Intertrade UK will seek to understand why they be no long do business in Northern Ireland , and assist they to restore their trading arrangement with consumer and customer in Northern Ireland . the Essex constituency that I represent have a vast horticultural industry that have be prevent from send its product — seed and all the other good that people in Northern Ireland would love to purchase — to Northern Ireland . this be a new opportunity for those business . I praise the Department for its engagement with king seed , base in Kelvedon in my constituency . we have to work through many of the practical issue that have put up barrier . People to people , we can facilitate trade flow that benefit everyone . I thank the right hon . Lady for her intervention and for her ongoing interest in Northern Ireland , which be always great to see . she be right . Intertrade UK will cover not just issue relate to the availability of good in Northern Ireland , but trade across the UK , between Scotland and England , England and Wales , and so on . it be design , in the new environment we find ourselves in , to encourage great trade within the United Kingdom . we have a market in the United Kingdom in the region of 60 million people . it be the second - big market in Europe and we should be sell more of our own good to our own people . the purpose of Intertrade UK be to encourage those enhance , strong trading link across all of the United Kingdom . of course , the Union be not just a political union ; it be an economic union . it be the economic union in particular that be harm by the protocol . the new measure be design to restore those trading relationship to a more healthy place . in welcome the restoration of the devolved institution , it be important to recognise that one key difficulty with the protocol be the lack of democratic input for the political institution in Northern Ireland . law be be apply automatically to Northern Ireland — new law and change to the law — on which Northern Ireland have no say whatever . we welcome the establishment of the Democratic Scrutiny Committee in the Northern Ireland Assembly , which will now have the function to scrutinise law that be come forward . it will have the power to stop those law apply , as I say early . the UK Government ultimately have the power of veto if law be deem to be harmful to Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom and its internal market . that be all progress . I note that some who be critical of the new arrangement and say that the new Democratic Scrutiny Committee be powerless now complain that they be unable to obtain membership of it . furthermore , I note that some of our detractor now talk about the risk of what they call " trivergence " whereby if the Assembly , exercise its power , veto a new law be apply to Northern Ireland , all of a sudden that might create a problem in so far as Northern Ireland will have different law from the EU and , potentially , different law from Great Britain . but in the new arrangement put in place as a result of the Command Paper , Northern Ireland good will be available for sale in Great Britain regardless of the circumstance . there be a good guarantee build into the legislation that this House have approve , which mean that Northern Ireland good , in all circumstance , can be sell in Great Britain . however , I note that those who say the new arrangement would be ineffective now complain that they will be so effective that they might be counterproductive when it come to Northern Ireland ' s interest . which be it ? either they be effective or they be not . we believe that they can be effective , and we be prepared to test the new mechanism to ensure that they protect the interest of everyone in Northern Ireland . let I make a few general point . we welcome the commitment that the UK Government have give about Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom , include those give from the Dispatch Box this evening , but I also note that we hear much talk about border poll , and much talk , particularly from Sinn F é in , about the need for such a poll . it be worth recall the history of Sinn F é in ' s approach to border poll . as long ago as 2011 , Gerry Adams tell we that by 2016 , Northern Ireland would leave the United Kingdom . we be almost 10 year on from 2016 , and we be still in the UK . by August 2021 , Gerry have change 2016 to 2024 ; well , 2024 have arrive , and we be still in the UK . in May 2022 , Mary Lou McDonald call for a border poll by 2027 , but then she change that to 2030 , and just this month Michelle o ' Neill shift the Sinn F é in goalpost once again to call for a border poll by 2034 . but they recognise the reality — that it be the settle will of the people of Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom — and all this talk of divisive border poll be design simply to reassure the Sinn F é in base . on our constitutional future , do my right hon . friend agree that in the change Northern Ireland that now exist , there be many of we who be proud of our british nationality and will never yield on that , while other be proud of their Irishness ? also , many do not share either constitutional identity . only membership of the United Kingdom allow people to cherish all three . I thank my hon . friend for make that powerful point . the beauty of Northern Ireland today be that each of we have the right to identify ourselves in whatever way we deem appropriate , but it be evident that the vast majority of people in Northern Ireland continue to accept that the settle will of the people be to remain in the United Kingdom , and that should be respect by everyone , regardless of how they identify themselves . it be clear to I , however , that Unionists , myself include , have a job to do in continue to persuade people that the Union be good for all . this debate be welcome , but neither Parliament nor the court will ultimately decide Northern Ireland ' s future . it be the people of Northern Ireland who will decide our future in the United Kingdom , and our job as Unionists be to continue to persuade the majority that they be well off in the United Kingdom . let I say this , with great respect , to my colleague , not on these Benches but out there in wide Unionism , many of they detractor of we in the DUP — those who attack my party and the stand that we be take , because we recognise that build a prosperous Northern Ireland that work for everyone be the key to secure the Union for the future . let I say to those who be a minority in Unionism , but who still live in the day of the 1970 when Unionism have an inbuilt majority , that Northern Ireland be change . its demographic be change . we need only look at the result of recent polling to see that . Unionism have to recognise that among young people , support for the Union be not as strong as it be among more senior citizen in Northern Ireland . our task be to persuade our young people , the next generation , that the Union work for they the way we do it in 1970 be not the way we will do it now in 2024 , or in 2030 , or in 2034 . it be a prosperous Northern Ireland — a Northern Ireland that deliver job for our young people , and ensure that they have the good education and the good start in life — that will deliver support for the Union . that be fundamentally and vitally important . the sign be good in that regard . today Northern Ireland have less unemployment than any other region in the United Kingdom outside London , which be an impressive indicator of the extent to which it have move forward from the day when unemployment be beyond 12 % and we have the high unemployment in the United Kingdom . that be what make Northern Ireland work look like . make Northern Ireland work look like deliver job for our young people , drive down unemployment , improve our economy , create job and attract investment , and the new arrangement that we be introduce give we an opportunity to do that even well in the future . those be the argument that will secure the Union for the future , and Unionism need to do well . we can be proud of a Northern Ireland that be deliver in term of its manufacturing industry . one in three aircraft seat in every aircraft across the world be manufacture in Northern Ireland . every Airbus wing include component manufacture in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) . we have a world - class creative industry , as be clear from the number of new film be produce in Northern Ireland . we have a talented workforce , and the cost of establish a business in Northern Ireland be 40 % low than those elsewhere . we have unfettere access to the UK internal market , and we have privilege access to the EU single market . I therefore believe that there be a bright future for Northern Ireland , one in which our economy grow — and as it grow , support for the Union will grow , because who want to disrupt what be successful ? who want to move away from what make Northern Ireland work for all its people ? I stand here today with optimism for Northern Ireland , the place that I call home and be proud to come from . its people have so much potential , and we have an opportunity now to demonstrate potential for all our people . may I reinforce what my right hon . friend have just say ? in the constituency of North Down , which be next to mine and be cover by Ards and North Down Borough Council , there have be 160 business start - up in the last year . that be an indication of how good our people be , give the opportunity . my hon . friend have make a powerful point . I want to see that prosperity spread across Northern Ireland — to the constituency of the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) , to West Tyrone , to Mid Ulster , to Fermanagh and South Tyrone , to Newry and Armagh , and to South Down — so that Northern Ireland work for everyone . another significant point be that 2023 be the first year in my lifetime when no one be record as have be murder in a trouble - relate crime . progress be not just measure in job ; it be measure in life — in the life of our young people who do not today run the risk of be murder because of their political aspiration or their political perspective . that , too , be a mark of the progress we have make , but we do not take our peace for grant . cement the peace also mean build prosperity , because a Northern Ireland that work for everyone be a Northern Ireland that will succeed and prosper . as a confident Unionist , I be very much at home work on matter of mutual concern with our friend and neighbour across the United Kingdom . I be willing to go on co - operate with our neighbour on the island that we share , our neighbour in the Republic of Ireland . I simply ask of they that they too respect the settle will of the people of Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom , and recognise that our co - operation be about work together , so we both an benefit from the prosperity that I believe can come . as a unionist by conviction , I want to see Northern Ireland play its full part in the economic life and the economic success of this United Kingdom . I believe in this United Kingdom , and I believe that Northern Ireland have a bright place and a bright future in the Union . I apologise for my voice be a bit croaky ; I might have to give up slightly early than plan . we will see how it go . I want to stress that a lot of people in Northern Ireland , include member of my party , have show enormous patience and pragmatism , especially over the past two year , during which the Assembly have not meet . I recognise the effort make by the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) to get his party back into institution , but we have to recognise that enormous damage be do during the two - year suspension , as it be whenever Sinn F é in take the institution down previously . we have a lot of work to do to undo the damage that have be do , as well as build for the future . hopefully , we can find consensus tonight on the importance of Northern Ireland have a prosperous future . I do not want to linger on this point , but Brexit be the original sin behind the problem that Northern Ireland have have over the past seven or eight year . we have have the common theme of try to find various mechanism through which we can address the particular challenge pose in Northern Ireland , and of put in place special arrangement . I hope that the Windsor framework , albeit with modification in its implementation , can provide a degree of stability , but there be a wide point to be make about the future : the close the UK and the European Union be align with each other , the less the impact of difference will be across the Irish Sea , whether we be talk about any residual check that take place or tension that arise about standard and regulation . although I hope that we be close this phase of the Brexit war , particularly as apply to Northern Ireland , we still need to address how the UK and the European Union can find a well work relationship over the come year . I say that while maintain my own and my party ' s aspiration that one day we will return to the European Union — and , perhaps even before that , the single market and the custom union . as for our approach to what have happen , we have give the DUP and the Government a considerable amount of space , and recognise that there be issue that they have to work through to get to this point . equally , we have to recognise that we have have a one - side political negotiation in Northern Ireland , which be at odd with practice over the 25 year since the Good Friday agreement and , indeed , before that . we be pragmatic in that regard , provide we see a situation that would not damage the Good Friday agreement , that no damage would be do to Northern Ireland ' s dual - market access to both the UK and wide EU market , and that the party be keep inform . on all three of those test , there be some issue that we need to air , which arise from the Command Paper . we have be careful not to destabilise the restoration of the Good Friday institution early this month , and tonight be perhaps a well opportunity to articulate some of the relevant point , rather than our rock the boat at an early stage . in many respect , the Command Paper have no legal effect , and we be careful not to get too wound up about it . for some , it could be characterise as a glorified press release , but there be measure in it that may cause we all concern , and their implementation will be critical . aspect of the language be one - side and load , which perhaps point to wide issue of mindset that pose some concern . let I give the House a few example . like the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) , I be concern about the marginalisation of the duty to have due regard to the all - island economy in legislation . remove those word from law do not , in itself , erase the reality of an all - island economy , but there be the danger of a change of mindset lead to miss opportunity . I would be very wary of a situation whereby we falsely set the UK economy against the all - island economy ; the two can operate in perfect harmony and complement each other . of course , the all - island economy be different from the UK economy , because there be separate jurisdiction in the all - island economy . obviously , there be difference around tax , regulation and governance — just to give a few example . however , Northern Ireland be in a situation where sale and supply chain operate on both an east - west and a north - south basis , and the all - island economy exist as a concept above and beyond Northern Ireland ' s access to the EU single market . a clear example of that be the existence of InterTradeIreland , which the Command Paper mirror with the creation of Intertrade UK . another be the fact that we have the single electricity market on the island , which have be one of the great success story of north - south co - operation . that be not even envisage in the Good Friday agreement , but happen afterwards through sheer pragmatism and the recognition of reality , include by DUP Economy Ministers at the time . we also have the reality of agrifood movement ; we have some highly intricate arrangement on the island in that regard . if we end up in a situation where we do not give due regard to the all - island economy , we may end up miss opportunity to drive Northern Ireland ' s prosperity , because we have to be open to all economic opportunity that come our way , irrespective of their characteristic . that be a particular danger in relation to the Stormont brake , which I will come to in a moment . I recognise that European Union law be an issue of contention for many people in this House . for I , it be not remotely threaten whatsoever . I want to actively embrace it , because it be key to Northern Ireland ' s access to the EU single market . we should not be run away from EU law , which be there to safeguard labour right , consumer protection , environmental protection and other related area . company want to have certainty on those issue for the environment in which they be operate , and those that export in particular want to have the ability to operate to the standard of their large export market in any event — so this be not a matter that the business community be raise concern about . I appreciate that in the long run , the Stormont brake may not actually change that much about Northern Ireland ' s adherence to EU law . if , however , we find ourselves in a situation whereby there be either a delay or some other form of uncertainty in the applicability of update EU law in Northern Ireland , it may create an issue for some inward investor into Northern Ireland , who rely on certainty about regulation , particularly in highly regulate area — for example , pharmaceutical . if we want to fully capitalise on our dual market access , we need to be very careful not to hollow that out from within by play political game around the Stormont brake . we will reserve judgment to see how that work in practice but , on paper , it cause we some considerable concern at this stage . go forward , it be important that we see a change of gear from the Government in how they engage with all the political party in Northern Ireland , and that they try to address some of the friction that have build up with the Irish Government in recent month . I appreciate that there be two side to every argument , but those issue need to be overcome if we be to make the most of this new beginning for Northern Ireland . a great level of transparency and co - operation with all the political party will be crucial for the implementation of any measure that arise from the Command Paper . in that regard , not every item mention in the Command Paper directly relate to the seven test that the DUP set out in its reason for not be part of the Executive . we have see some mission creep in some of the commitment that have be make . we have touch on a broad spectrum of issue in Northern Ireland on which there have not be proper engagement with all the political party , but the Government be under a duty to ensure proper fairness in that regard . regard some of the constitutional stuff that have be mention , I too be happy to put on record that I do not believe that joint authority be part of the Good Friday agreement . it be a choice between Northern Ireland be a part of a single UK or part of a single united Ireland . within those structure we can come up with different arrangement , include a federal Ireland or devolution within the context of the UK , but those be the two choice available . that do not mean that the Irish Government be not a partner in the peace process . indeed , they need to be an active participant in some aspect of the discussion relate to Northern Ireland . there be also issue in relation to the East - West Council and how that be go to be reconcile with the british - Irish Council . that be an institution under the Good Friday agreement , whereas the East - West Council be not . how will that be reconcile ? the Government need to clarify some of these point . the point have be make that if people want to secure the Union — that may well be the intention of a majority of people in Northern Ireland at present — the good way of do so be to ensure that Northern Ireland work . that mean have function and effective political institution . it also mean equality within Northern Ireland and respect for all tradition . at the moment the jury be out in that regard . over the past six or seven year , Brexit have result in a major reassessment of people ' s identity and potential aspiration , and while opinion poll be point in a clear direction at present , I think people would be overly complacent not to read beneath the surface and see the degree of concern about the thing have happen in recent time and the reaction to they . the hon . Member have speak for over 10 minute and he have raise concern after concern about the content of the " safeguard the Union " document , but not once have he reflect on the concern of Unionists about the encroachment on our place within this United Kingdom as a result of what he be ask to be rigorously implement . I be hope that at some stage there will be space for that in this debate . do he recognise that the wrong choice over the last number of year be to dismiss and demean the concern raise by his neighbour and that if he and his colleague have not do that , there might have be a more rational , sensible and pragmatic recognition of the problem and of the collective desire to address they ? the only reason that the product of what we be debate this evening be not agree collectively be that for too many year he and his colleague dismiss those of we who raise legitimate concern . I be grateful to the Member for his intervention because it have allow I to have a good drink to ease my throat . he raise some interesting question which will allow I to clarify those point . I be not go to rake over old coal too much this evening but he invite I to do so . let I be clear : my party have always take a pragmatic approach to special arrangement within Northern Ireland . we recognise , whenever Brexit be impose on a society that already work through sharing and interdependence , that that situation be go to have to be carefully manage . I do not want to see any check introduce anywhere on these island as a consequence of that , but that be always go to be a reality in the context of a hard Brexit . hopefully the current hard Brexit can be soften over time , which will help in that respect . in so far as those check can be minimise , I be all for that . our party have never stand in the way of that particular outcome . the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) make reference to the phrase " rigorous implementation " , although we have now hear about the vigorous implementation of the Command Paper from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . that phrase relate to a letter that be sign by four party in September 2021 in the context of attempt by the UK Government to unilaterally breach international law . our position all along have be that modification to the protocol , right through to what we have today in the Windsor framework , need to be negotiate , where appropriate , between the UK Government and the European Union as the signatory to the new arrangement , and that they have to be legal . in that context our position have always be consistent . we be a party of law . we be committed to implement the law where we be require to implement the law , but where the law can be change through proper process , we be all for that . what we be always against — and remain against — be unilateral action that put Northern Ireland in a bad position because it undermine trust . the big game changer be when we have a change of Government in the autumn of 2022 . all of a sudden the European Union and the UK Government start talk to each other and thing start move really quickly . I would say that the result that we have today could have be find much early if we have have a lot more trust in the process between the European Union and the UK Government — and I certainly do not justify or require the Assembly to be down for two year , cause chaos in Northern Ireland ' s public service and a huge number of miss opportunity . my party have always be clear that we want to see thing such as the red and green lane introduce , which be achieve through the Windsor framework . we have also consistently propose a veterinary agreement , which I would remind the hon . member for Belfast East that his party initially oppose whenever we put it forward . indicate dissent . question be ask in the Northern Ireland Assembly and DUP Ministers say they be oppose , include the former leader of the DUP . I be happy to give way to the Member again so I can have another drink . the hon . Member should have another sip from that cup , although I be not sure it be work . what we do oppose be the understanding that all veterinary medicine would be available in Northern Ireland through an EU prism — an EU regime . what we have propose — and what continue to be a part of this Command Paper with the Government ' s indication that they will publish unilateral action come the springtime should agreement not be reach — be a recognition of mutual standard : mutual recognition . the hon . Member should recognise the statutory instrument that this House and the other place pass three week ago on a good guarantee and mutual recognition — two thing that I believe he and his colleague might have describe as unicorn . the Member be conflate a veterinary agreement with the issue of veterinary medicine . there be an issue with veterinary medicine that need to be properly address , but the issue of a wide veterinary agreement be something that the DUP oppose — a wide sanitary and phytosanitary agreement between the UK and the European Union that would free up bureaucracy relate to the movement of agrifood product . that would obviously have a direct benefit in term of the Irish sea , but it be fundamentally in the interest of the whole UK agrifood sector to address some of the bureaucracy that be increasingly come to the fore and cause frustration for many business . indeed , perhaps at some point we will have a discussion around the " not for EU " labelling issue , which be also cause major concern for business across the UK but be be drive by this particular process . I appreciate that the Member and his party be keen to have this narrative about " we have achieve this and we have achieve that " , and I be not to try to burst their bubble too much , but the reality be that there will still be a degree of check across the Irish sea . whether they be do on a risk basis or whether we have a red channel for that , the reality be that there will have to be some management of that irish sea interface , include the registration of the business involve . those be all product of the fact that we have a hard Brexit , and that we have to manage those tension . I be delighted that we have get they down as far as we have but , equally , we need to be frank and honest that there be certain parameter beyond which people can not go . I be not necessarily plan to have as big a row with the DUP as have unfold tonight , but I have some comment for the Government on the way forward . we be get a clear narrative that the Government be commit to make Northern Ireland work . we all share that commitment , and we want to see prosperity . I have three point for the Government , and hopefully the DUP will agree with some of what I say . first , revenue raising be clearly mean to be part of the wide transformation plan require for the Executive to pay off what be package as their debt . of course , that debt would not have arise if we have a proper fiscal flow . I freely acknowledge that the Executive will have to address revenue raising , but there be a danger that they will rush to address revenue raising in the come month while they be still try to find their foot and address wide financial issue , which could cause difficulty within the Executive . of course , we should address revenue raising , but let we not rush headlong into it . a figure of £ 113 million be not insignificant , but it be a drop in the ocean compare with a £ 14 billion - plus revenue budget . there be much big decision to be make on health and education reform , which the Executive need to be encourage to address , rather than clash over £ 113 million . secondly , Casement Park be an important issue for the Euros in 2028 , but it be a wide , totemic issue for a section of the community in Northern Ireland . I will not go into exactly what the UK Government have to do , but they be a player . commitment have be make on their support for this overall project . the clock be clearly tick , so there be a degree of urgency . the issue be now be escalate as a potential political confrontation point , which may pose problem to the restore Executive . with all the caveat about value for money that the Government have to consider , they should be clear , as soon as possible , about what they can do so that the project can move ahead . thirdly , the repackage Fresh Start money be above and beyond the £ 3 . 3 billion package for the restore Executive . that fund be already part of the transformation fund for shared and , in particular , integrated education . we now have a situation in which 10 school , at different level of development , for integrated education — which , to be fair , the Government have embrace over many year — be now place in jeopardy . to I , that be not only a step back from integration and reconciliation in Northern Ireland , but it be at odd with the objective of transformation . I urge the Government to reconsider how the Executive handle the £ 150 million of repurposed Fresh Start funding . again , the Government agree the package during a previous political crisis in Northern Ireland . I have speak for far long than I anticipate . I recognise that Northern Ireland be in a much well place with a restore Executive and a restore Assembly , and I recognise that a lot of good work have be do to address a number of critical issue , but there be still bump on the road ahead . my central appeal be that the Government work more closely with all the political party to ensure that what they have set out be implement fairly and transparently , and to ensure that all concern and input be fully take into account . I think many people in North Down , a unionist constituency , will be wonder what kind of representative they have . the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) be probably a good proxy for a Sinn F é in representative in his disregard for Unionists ' concern about the protocol and in his unwillingness to apologise for the fact that he and his party want the Government to double down on the protocol , despite the damage it be cause . his party say during the negotiation that they have negotiate a wonderful package . there be still underfunde because of how the funding formula be apply in Northern Ireland , yet the only plea he make for additional funding this evening be to pay for Casement Park . the Gaelic Athletic Association have say that it will not give one penny more to that stadium . the GAA expect the UK Government to divvy up for its state - of - the - art stadium . the Humble Address tell his Majesty of this Parliament ' s commitment in respect of a number of issue . significantly , it have be bring forward because of the way in which successive Prime Ministers from the Conservative and Unionist party have betray Northern Ireland by choose to side with the EU , and not to annoy the EU , even if that mean weaken the Union of the United Kingdom . the sad reality be that these reassuring word , which the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) describe as a " love letter " to Unionists — when we look at it , we will see that it be not such a love letter — be essential because of the trust that have be break by a Government who be quite happy to hand Northern Ireland over to the European Union as a vassal state , to use the term of the former Prime Minister who be responsible for some of the damage do . a number of issue be address in the Humble Address , and the first be to affirm the importance of uphold all the strand of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . why be that necessary ? the reason , of course , be because this Government act at the behest of the European Union , which require that the position of Northern Ireland within the United Kingdom be weaken , with any attempt to address that situation be thwart by change the voting arrangement in the Assembly . we already know that Northern Ireland be not all that important to this Government , because the whole principle of consent to change Northern Ireland ' s position within the United Kingdom be simply ignore . the damage have be do , and there have be no attempt to undo that damage . the Belfast agreement make it clear that any change — any change — to Northern Ireland ' s position within the United Kingdom could happen only with the consent of the people of Northern Ireland . that change take place when the UK Government agree that the EU would have the ability , in 300 area of law , to make law for Northern Ireland , and that Northern Ireland ' s representative would have no say in the making of those law . in fact , the only country on the island of Ireland that would have a say be the Republic of Ireland , because of its membership of the EU . the EU and the Irish Republic would have the ability to make law in relation to Northern Ireland in 300 area of law and Northern Ireland politician elect to the Assembly would have no say . the hon . member for North Down might be happy that his party member be elect to an Assembly and have no say on a raft of area of law . we be relax about EU law , but the thing we be certainly not relax about be not have an Assembly whatsoever for the past two year . anyone who want to talk about democratic deficit need to refocus away from the technicality of EU law and on the fact that no one be in charge of health , education and the economy for the past two year and on the damage that have be do . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will show some humility and recognise his role and that of his party in the chaos that have be force upon Northern Ireland in the past two year , when they have take their time negotiate this new arrangement with the Government . be the hon . Gentleman ' s stance not amazing ? he talk about the democratic deficit that exist for two year while the Assembly be not operate , but he be happy to have a democratic deficit that will last for decade as a result of the arrangement in place now . so he can not now get concerned about the inability of politician in Northern Ireland to do something . we have the two year of Stormont not operate because the principle on which it be bind to operate — that there have to be consent and the view of nationalists and Unionists have to be take into consideration — have be simply wipe aside ; it could not have work anyway because the very foundation of the Belfast agreement have be remove . I have to ask the Minister : how can the Government affirm the Belfast agreement when we have in place today arrangement that come about only because one of the central principle of the agreement have be remove ? of course , this be about look at not just the past , but the future . the Assembly will have a decision to make and it will have a vote at the end of this year on the arrangement that be in place . that vote will be very controversial , because it look both back and forward . first , be the arrangement put in place acceptable ? far more importantly , will the arrangement go forward be acceptable ? the vote will not simply be about EU law , because in four year ' time nobody who be take part in this vote will even know about the EU law ; this vote will be about whether the Assembly be go to continue have the Republic of Ireland and the EU make law that be unknown and that we will have no say in formulate in the future . there can be no more controversial vote than that , yet the Belfast agreement say that a vote of that nature should not be make on a majority basis . since 1972 , vote and issue that be controversial could not be make on a majority basis in Northern Ireland . yet here be one of the most controversial vote that the Northern Ireland Assembly will be involve in , and the Government , at the behest or demand of the Irish Republic and the EU , set aside the requirement for cross - community support in that vote . so the Minister be today propose a motion that affirm " the importance of uphold the Belfast … Agreement " , know full well that he have agree to and defend , and will continue to put in place , arrangement that undermine the very principle of consent for a most controversial issue , on which a vote will take place at the end of this year . so when we address his Majesty and say that we be affirm the Belfast agreement , we have to look at the way we have dispense with its central provision in the past and the way we be go to remove the ability to use the consent principle in the future on one of the most controversial issue . secondly , the Humble Address acknowledge " the foundational importance of the act of Union " . I find it strange that it acknowledge not just the act of Union but their " foundational importance " , because in the court case take against the Northern Ireland protocol , the Government ' s lawyer say that when the House vote for the withdrawal agreement , we have imply the disapplication of article VI of the Act of Union . the court rule that article VI , which contain the foundational economic right , have be suspend , and they have not be unsuspende . why be they suspend ? it be because , as a result of the EU be give the say to make law in respect of Northern Ireland , there have to be some impediment to trade between GB and Northern Ireland . the shadow spokesman talk about how even under the Act of Union there be impediment to trade , and he be right . however , there be one fundamental difference : those impediment be put in place and be decide upon by administration within the UK , because they see that an advantage be create . the difference now be that the Act of Union and its foundational economic right have be suspend because the EU demand that that be the case . now , as Northern Ireland be part of the single market , the EU require certain restriction and check to be put in place . a further irony be that those restriction in place , even with the new arrangement , be far more intrusive and far more difficult hurdle to overcome when it come to trade between GB and Northern Ireland than they would be for trade between France and GB or Germany and GB . that be what have put so many people off trade with Northern Ireland . the Government be now go to say to they all that they should come back to the Northern Ireland market — the shadow spokesman talk about the way in which trade have be divert — but that be a conscious decision that firm have make because of the difficulty in bring good into Northern Ireland from GB . on the issue about which the right hon . Gentleman complain , it pain I to say it but they be put in place because the House of Commons vote to pass the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 . it be not correct to say that they be enforce upon Northern Ireland by the EU of its own volition ; they be arrangement that the House decide should be put in place because the people of the UK have vote to leave the European Union . that , too , be a fact . that vote be make in this House on two ground . first , the EU make its term clear and we have a spineless government that be prepared to bow to it , say that if those arrangement be not put in place , there would be no deal . weigh up the impact that might have on the rest of the United Kingdom and the impact it would have on Northern Ireland , the Government decide that Northern Ireland would be the sacrificial lamb . secondly , we be tell at that time , as be this House and business in Northern Ireland , " Don ' t worry , " and be promise , " you ' ll get some bit of paper but just tear they up , or give the Prime Minister a ring and he ' ll make sure you don ' t have to worry about they . " I accept that the decision be make by this House , but it be make on that basis , and the fact be it still have a detrimental impact on Northern Ireland . change have be make by the Windsor framework , the Northern Ireland protocol and the " safeguard the Union " document , but the economic foundational importance of the Act of Union be still be undermine . we be tell that 20 % of good still have to go through a red lane . Most of those good go to manufacturing business or distributor in Northern Ireland , in many case because they be part of product that will eventually be sell . the business will still be subject to check because the product have not be make — it be only part come in — and because of the eventual destination of the product , even though most business can say , " look , we sell in Northern Ireland , outside EU or to GB " . I speak to a businessman this morning who inform I that the situation be go to get bad . the paperwork for the last order he get for good come through the red lane take six hour . when people be work on very thin margin , that additional work make they question whether to invest far in Northern Ireland or to jump over the border to the Irish Republic , so the red lane requirement have a huge economic impact . even the UK internal market requirement be at the gift of the EU , because the EU still have control of trade that come from GB into Northern Ireland through regulation 2023 / 1231 and 2023 / 1128 . if the EU deem at any stage that the arrangement for the internal market lane do not meet its requirement , the ultimate say as to what happen to those movement of trade will remain with the EU and it can go back to the default position with 100 % check . I note that those two regulation have not be remove by the EU as a result of " safeguard the Union " . the EU still hold that control , which be worry for business in Northern Ireland . the Humble Address be all about tell his Majesty that the foundational importance of the Act of Union will be respect and be be respect by the Government , but that be just not true . my final point be about the part of the Humble Address that say that " executive power in Northern Ireland shall continue to be vest in his Majesty , and that joint authority be not provide for in the Belfast ( Good Friday ) agreement 1998 in respect of the UK and irish Governments . " there be no definition of " joint authority " . in the past , Ministers have stand at the Dispatch Box and tell we there have be no change in the constitutional position of Northern Ireland as a result of the protocol and the Windsor framework , and Northern Ireland be still fully part of the United Kingdom . word can mean whatever they want , it seem , when the Government find themselves challenge by the agreement they have make with the EU . I trust that the Government will not accede to some of the demand that have be make . in his intervention , the hon . member for North Down say that he want a review of the Belfast agreement . that would open all kind of door . if he have his way , the review would be base on a majority view of what should happen in the future . the removal of the consent principle and the majority vote in the Assembly be what he and his friend in Sinn F é in and the sdlp be aim for now . unionist be now a minority , so majoritarianism be no long a problem . I have listen with great interest to many of the point make . I be particularly take by the attention the hon . Gentleman have give to the foundational importance of constitutional matter , which exercise many hon . member on the Government Benches . do he agree that it seem incongruous that change to constitutional law — not primary legislation , but constitutional law — be make in this Chamber through the use of statutory instrument ? we have to seek an extension to secure 180 minute of debate on those measure . do he agree with many conservative Members that matter of constitutional law should be treat with proper respect and subject to proper debate and scrutiny by this House before they be change ? the hon . Gentleman make a very important point . when we agree to the withdrawal agreement and legislation , the Act of Union be change without Ministers even mention that that be happen . they use that defence in court later on . a couple of week ago , when we discuss protect Northern Ireland - GB trade and protect against the threat of a further wedge be drive between Northern Ireland and GB as a result of change in the law make in this place , we get 90 minute to discuss those change and not a great deal of time to scrutinise they . at the end of the debate the Minister have about three minute to sum up , which do not give he time to answer any of the question that have be ask . I agree with my hon . friend that that be not right . the Government do not make the argument after the fact that article 6 have be impliedly repeal or subsequently find by the court to be temporarily suspend — I raise the question in the House of the Minister before the legislation pass and they have not a clue what be be ask of they . the notion that this Parliament choose to proceed along a path that be encroach on article 6 be not right because it be ask and it be answer negatively by minister at the time . we scrutinise . we raise the constitutional importance of the action they be take . it be the Government who deny that be the case . I thank my hon . friend for that clarification . in all the discussion he have use his knowledge of the issue . if we have a Government who simply ignore the point that he make , either because they do not know or do not want other to know , that make it even more disgraceful . that be why when we have a Humble Address , it be right that we scrutinise , ask question and raise issue about what exactly be mean by the promise make to his Majesty and the people of Northern Ireland . sadly , I do not believe that what have be say or the promise that have already be make address the issue . if we be go to address the issue of keep Northern Ireland firmly within the United Kingdom , the Windsor framework have to go and the principle of consent have to be restore . the people of Northern Ireland and elect representative in Northern Ireland must have the ability to make the law that they be elect to make . order . as member know , we have two significant statement after departmental question , and it be likely that this debate will go for another hour . a significant number of people put their name down for the general debate on farming that be to follow . that will now be reschedule , and member will be tell in the usual manner when that debate will take place . the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) say that a glorified press release be in front of we tonight . the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) , who be no long in his place , say that a love letter to the Democratic Unionist party have be pen . they say that be all it be , yet they still protest . they protest if unionist get as much as a nod and a wink . they still object to it . it should not have be do , they say . unionist should get nothing out of this place . that be the import of their comment . or perhaps the hon . member for North Down and for Foyle protest too much . perhaps the real issue be that they do not like anything do that give Unionism a nod or a wink , an advantage , or recognition of our right . their objection be perhaps strong to the latter . point have be raise this evening about the future of Casement Park . I be not go to mention it , but as it have be put on the agenda , I think I will . Most people listen with consternation this morning to the word of Jarlath Burns , the leader of the Gaelic Athletic Association , who say , " not a penny more will come from the GAA for Casement Park " — not even on ground of inflation . it be £ 15 million or nothing from the GAA . that have to be a significant body blow to the future of Casement Park . the Northern Ireland Executive may indicate that they will give an inflation - relate piece of money — significant money — to that project . the Government of Dublin may indicate that they will give multiple of million to that project . yet the GAA will not even give the project an inflation - link amount . that suggest to I that perhaps the GAA do not want Casement Park to go ahead , and that it be look for someone or for some group to blame . [ interruption . ] I hear the giggle and fit come from the SNP Benches , but of course it be very easy to spend other people ' s money . this project now look as if it will be short by about £ 100 million . tonight , I have hear that we should really be able to wipe out the " not insignificant " — I think that be the comment — £ 113 million in Executive funding that have be ask for , yet the big ask be : " we ' d well have this money make available for Casement Park , " no matter what the amount be . that be amazing . not only do we have a demand for this money , but it be almost as if the point be make be , " if you don ' t give we that money , there will be a crisis . " that seem to be the way that the comment be frame to the House this evening . Most people will reflect very sombrely on the comment make by Jarlath Burns , and by other inside and outside this House who have make it clear that the money must be make available or else . but thing can no long work that way . difficult decision need to be make , and I suspect that the decision that will be make very soon about Casement Park will be incredibly difficult . the way the party respond to those difficult decision will be the measure of those party . the Minister be take down a rabbit hole tonight by the hon . member for Foyle , who , again , be no long in his place . perhaps he have decide to go back to Foyle , give the terrible issue at Seagate and the loss of 300 job . I hope that he be work hard to get those job back , because they be very significant . perhaps Mr Kennedy , the envoy , will turn up with a cheque book and the trillion of pound that he say be available for Northern Ireland — it would be amazing if he do . perhaps that money from America will arrive and those job , which be very important to the area , will be save . to return to my point , the Minister be take down a rabbit hole and be ask to confirm whether , in line with the term of the Belfast agreement and the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , there would be a simple majority vote for the future of Northern Ireland , but of course that be not in the Act . it talk about a majority vote ; it do not define what that majority be — if it be a majority of the people , or a majority of the people who vote . in fact , I believe that the definition have be leave open purposefully , so that Parliament will have a say on the term and condition . the Minister , refer to previous referendum in this country , have already concede that a small majority be not the way to make major constitutional change in this nation . if he believe that , he will certainly believe that for the outworking of the Belfast agreement . he share the position of the late Seamus Mallon , one of the negotiator of the Belfast agreement , who make it clear that there have to be a " clear majority " , in his word , for a change to the constitutional position of Northern Ireland . we should avoid go down these rabbit hole ; we need to recognise the importance of what this House be debate tonight , and why we be debate it . the objective of every Unionist be to undo the damage do by the great betrayal make by the Government of a former Prime Minister when they agree the protocol on Northern Ireland . that be do against the advice of the Unionists . unionist on these Benches , myself include , meet the then Prime Minister and implore he not to go down the road of a protocol . he say that thing would all be sort out . he come to County Antrim and tell farmer not to worry , " because all this can be shred . " he tell they that we can ignore it , and that we can throw the bit of paper in the bin . of course , as it transpire , the Prime Minister ' s betrayal of Northern Ireland have leave we still debate this issue two year later . untold damage have be do to the psychological view of where those in the Union be , as a people . responsibility for the economic position of the kingdom lie four - square at that Government ' s foot , and it be important that they undo that damage . I agree with the leader of our party that , after much diligence , we have before we a work in progress . yes , much more must be do . today ' s Humble Address must be see in the context of more need to be do , but the fact be that whenever we give a hint that we want more progress and more stability , we can not even have that . that seem to be the cry from the nationalists . nationalism have to grow up and recognise that it can not go on bait and push at Unionism , because that be wrong . until the law promise by this strengthening of the Union be operational in Northern Ireland , problem will remain for Northern Ireland trade . that be why I urge the Government to hurry up , and get on with implement the change that they have say be come ; otherwise more divergence be threaten . we must avoid divergence . it remain a threat and an ever - present danger to the Union , which be why the soon the Government legislate and move on these issue , the well . unionist have a history that mean that we always have to remain vigilant . as this be a work in progress , and as the Government , in previous utterance from the Dispatch Box , have concede that more legislation be to follow , it would be worth while for they to state that again from the Dispatch Box this evening . they can not expect one party in Northern Ireland to do all the heavy lifting . will the Government therefore spell out when further action will be put on the calendar ? when will we see those further action ? in conversation with my party colleague and party leader , we have already discuss the necessity of implement what have be promise , and the need to make more progress . it be okay we talk about it , but the Government have to take action . our constituent already feel the vice - like pinch of the protocol and the framework on their business , as my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) outline . I intend to put on the record some example that really perplex I and should have be resolve by the Government , and which underline the ongoing damage to our UK single market trade — our large market by far . my party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , and I have challenge senior civil servant in Northern Ireland over why the friction continue when this place have spell out that they ought to have be remove . Northern Ireland business be right to be impatient . we demand progress . we can not live on the promise that a change be come — the promise of jam tomorrow . we and this House demand action now . we urge the Government not to lose the momentum for change , and I therefore ask the follow question . when will the veterinary medicine working group be establish , and when will it commence work ? that be an urgent priority for our single large sector . when will the plant working group be establish ? the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) raise that urgent matter . when will InterTradeIreland be establish ? what date be pencil in and calendar for that important body to start operation ? what instruction have be give to the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs of Northern Ireland to progress the change for good flow from GB to Northern Ireland ? I ask because I know of several company in my constituency and elsewhere in Northern Ireland that be be hold back by these friction . a constituent with a very small business that order plant from an english wholesaler come to my office this week and say that she have be tell , " go elsewhere . try somewhere else . Don ' t buy from the United Kingdom . " as her MP , I volunteer to bring that stock — those sample and seed — over in my hand luggage if she so require , and dear help the official who try to stop I . my hon . friend talk about bring material over himself . can he imagine the incredulity of citizen of Northern Ireland who hear about the situation ? they will say , " what possible risk could that pose to the EU internal market ? " . my hon . friend make his point well ; there be zero risk to the european single market . in the same way , there be zero risk with veterinary medicine — the Secretary of State know that well , because I have discuss the matter with he — because we be talk about the same medicine as before . Europe do not want the medicine change — shock , horror . it just want the label change , but for that to happen , it be demand that the pharmaceutical company rescale and re - examine what be in every product , which would cost million of pound , and would not be worth it for the company . it be the same with biscuit . the leader of my party today meet a company that have be require to do certain labelling . the EU be not try to change the content or recipe of the biscuit ; it be try to change the label , because the single market might be damage by the wrong label . that be how " bent banana " , " square cucumber " , this argument be . we should have leave that behind long ago . the owner of a haulage business in my constituency have have the number of check on his consignment go from nine per month in August last year to — wait for it — 27 in the last two week of this month , and we be still move towards the last couple of day of February . that be the record for the number of check he have undergo since the protocol be put in place . once again , will the Government look at this over - zealous Department , DAERA , which look like it will not undo what this House say have be to be undo , as be outline in a previous debate ? I mention a constituent who be try to buy scanner for a service sector industry . he have always buy the scanner from GB , and he have be tell that he must have an economic operator registration and identification number . that number mean that vat be pay in the Republic of Ireland , but my constituent do not trade in the Republic of Ireland . he be be deny the ability to buy equipment from GB because some official here be say , " no , you must have an EROI number , and you must put GB in front of it . " that do not exist , and it be appal that he have be put in that position . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will . I be delighted that the Minister want to intervene . I can not wait for my closing speech so I can say to the hon . Gentleman , " please , give we all these example in full detail in writing . " I will be very pleased indeed to have my official go through they with a fine - toothed comb and see what can be do in absolutely every case . as have be say time and again , work will continue to be do to improve matter . I be yearn for the full detail so that we can work on it . I like the Minister ' s enthusiasm , but may I say that I be ahead of he ? the leader of my party and I have already meet official and discuss these issue with they . we have put they to the Cabinet Office , which I understand be the proper channel . I hope the Cabinet Office include the Minister so he can get his tooth into these matter and deliver for I , my party leader and my colleague on the issue that perplex we so much . the hon . Gentleman may have miss it , but last Monday be my first day as a joint Cabinet Office and Northern Ireland Office Minister , precisely so I can assist official with some ministerial work . Minister , I congratulate you on your promotion , but I commiserate with you because you will be deal more and more with I and my colleague . we will test you to the nth degree — order . obviously , the hon . Gentleman be not test I . I apologise for my enthusiasm , Madam Deputy Speaker ; we will test the Minister to the nth degree . I want to make a point about whiskey , not because the hour be late but because it be an important point . a point be make about tariff , and a certain whiskey company in my constituency be mention — I think it probably dread be mention , because it just want to get on with trade . any tariff of the sort that come into effect in 1801 , impose on Bushmills whiskey by the act of Union , be actually remove at a very important historical juncture for this nation . they be remove in 1879 during — guess what ? — the great home rule debate , in order to calm thing down . maybe , just maybe , we need to learn that lesson from history , and remove these border and the problem that have be put in place , in order to calm thing down . if we learn that lesson from history , that whiskey company in my constituency — the premier whiskey constituency and whiskey company in the whole British Isles — will continue to do exceptionally well . I should say for the record that not a single additional tariff have be place on whiskey throughout the whole period of the protocol , so there be nothing to be remove . the history be incredibly interesting . tariff on irish whiskey be bring in in the 1600 because it be the most successful product make on the entire island of Ireland . then there be the introduction of what be call the whiskey tax , which become know as the Parliament tax of 1661 . only company that pay the tax be register , so the 1 , 200 whiskey distillery across Ireland suddenly become 40 . I be not say the other cease to exist ; they just do the irish thing of not pay their tax . that be a very important distinction . of course , the tax on irish whiskey be bring in to protect the scottish market . the fledgling whisky market develop about 40 or 50 year after the irish whiskey market in the early 1400 . in order to protect the scottish whisky market , the Parliament here decide to engage in protectionism of its scottish market . I be glad that that be remove — it ought to have be — allow the northern irish whiskey trade to continue to flourish , particularly give that it be a much well product and be spell correctly . I look forward to the Minister ' s response to the several question that I have ask . I urge he to deliver action , not just big word . before I bring in the next speaker , I should say that I want to ensure that the Minister have at least 10 minute to wind up . if the remain speaker keep to about 10 minute each , that would do the trick . I call Carla Lockhart . in my approach to the Humble Address , I hope it be in order , by way of introduction , to comment on the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper . it have be a very wide - range debate , so I assume that that be appropriate . I acknowledge those within my party who have work hard to improve the unacceptable situation that we find ourselves in . I welcome provision include , among other thing , the monitoring committee , the East - West Council , the new provision on rest - of - world product , and the UK Government ' s commitment to stand by Northern Ireland in the absence of a resolution on veterinary medicine . the DUP have unfortunately have to take step , for which it be often criticise , to address the far - reach implication of the protocol . we have often be blame for many of the problem that have flow from that unforgivable move on the part of our government back when the iniquitous protocol be implement . I welcome the improvement but , as have be say , there remain much work to be do . I , along with colleague on the DUP Bench , be all too aware of the work that lie ahead . I , too , take this opportunity to raise issue of which the Secretary of State will be very aware , include horse movement from GB to Northern Ireland and vice - versa , rare breed and plant , and so on . all those issue have be raise with I in my role as agriculture spokesperson . I look forward to the engagement that have be promise and to get result on those issue . part of the answer lie in the text of the Humble Address , which tell we that the economic provision provide by article 6 of the act of Union be of " foundational importance " . that be absolutely correct . in the 21st century , be part of the same country mean be part of the same internal market , which mean that good can flow freely within it without encounter border control post , demand custom , and SPS paperwork and check that increase cost and can make the difference between whether a domestic economic venture be viable or have to fall by the wayside . have the right to border - free access within the internal market of the country of which we be a part be certainly , from the vantage point of today , a basic right of economic citizenship . the really odd thing about today be that although we be gather here to affirm that article 6 and the right that it confer be not only important but be , in the word of the Humble Address , of " foundational importance " , on 8 February 2023 , paragraph 68 of the Supreme Court judgment rule that they be in part suspend . we can not withdraw , even temporarily , anything that be foundational without invite the structure that it support to topple , or ensure that it do so . part of the partial suspension of the economics provision under article 6 result in Northern Ireland be cut off from the rest of the UK through a customs border that have to be cross , whether it be approach through the red lane or the internal market system . the alternative border experience for custom that constitute the UK internal market system be actually define by the Commission delegate regulation EU 2023 / 1128 , which my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) refer to early . the formal EU description of that regulation be : " amend Delegated Regulation ( EU ) 2015 / 2446 to provide for simplified custom formality for trusted trader and for send parcel into Northern Ireland from another part of the United Kingdom " . the provision thus simplify custom formality , but do not remove they . rather than remove those movement from the remit of the EU custom code , they have the effect of amend how the EU custom code deal with they . it be quite extraordinary that the UK Government agree that movement of good within the United Kingdom should be subject to a border impose by 27 other state that regulate movement from one part of our country to another through their custom code , regardless of how demanding or undemande that code be . I thank my hon . friend for highlight that point . many good order online and deliver from a GB company make their way into Northern Ireland after be ship into Dublin at night , so the member of the public who order they have to pay custom to the Republic of Ireland for good that be to be use within the United Kingdom . that be another area that have not yet be address and need serious consideration . I thank my hon . friend for make that valid point . the Minister will , in his new role , be extremely busy in deal with the many remain issue . some might say , " well , if the EU seek to change the custom code to increase the demand on trusted trader , we could refuse to accept the change . " that go to the heart of the matter . if we be prepared to refuse such a change from the EU under those circumstance , why would we accept they under the current circumstance , through arrangement that involve the partial disenfranchisement of 1 . 9 million UK citizen who can no long stand for election to make all the law to which they be subject and , under the brake , must instead make do with the right to stand for election to try to stop law already make for we by a foreign Parliament ? the truth , as be point out in the other place , be that the Windsor framework be an invalid treaty . there be rule about what make a treaty valid or invalid , and one of the most basic be respect for the territorial integrity of state , which involve state renounce claim to make the law of other state . the Windsor framework involve 27 state refuse to recognise the territorial integrity of the UK , seek to divide our country in two , and then claim the right to make some of the law for part of our country . in that context , the UK Government should declare the treaty void , and , act on the determination set out in this Humble Address , declare that article 6 be of foundational importance , and look for the early opportunity for Parliament to un - suspend — and thus fully restore — article 6 , so that the people of Northern Ireland be not alienate , however temporarily , from any aspect of this provision , which be , as the Humble Address rightly acknowledge , of " foundational importance " . many in Northern Ireland have welcome the restoration of the Northern Ireland Assembly and its ability to deal with health , education and infrastructure . I , for one , will raise many of those issue with our colleague in the Assembly . I trust that we will see much change in those issue , which have a daily impact . however , we must not paper over the crack . there remain much work to do . this have be a sensible debate that have allow many issue to be raise constructively . I look forward to engage with the Minister on many of these matter . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate . I thank all those who have make significant contribution . as a Northern Ireland MP , I be delighted that the position that Northern Ireland be in have be make clear in this House . let I make a quick comment about Casement Park — I can not let it pass by without comment . as I mention to the Secretary of State last week at the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , the cost be now some £ 225 million . I understand that about £ 70 million or £ 75 million be originally allocate . I suggest that , rather than pursue a white elephant , for which those who should be make big contribution be not do so , it would be well to disburse that original £ 70 million across the whole of Northern Ireland , to ensure that all club , in whatever sport , get the benefit . that decision will be make by the Assembly , not in this place ; I understand that , but we have to look at the big picture as well . David Jeffrey have a very interesting article in the newspaper last Saturday in which he suggest that what be before we at Casement Park could not work , because the benefit for all the people would only happen if the funding be disburse in the way I have describe . when it come to Casement Park , big decision be be make , and if the GAA be not prepared to go beyond its € 17 million or thereabout , I think it be time that the GAA catch itself on and realise that everybody else would get the benefit . that be what I would like to see . from the point of view of the party I represent , there be no alternative to bring down a devolved Administration in order to push for necessary change to the Northern Ireland protocol . we do so with a heavy heart , because we believe in devolution . we do so because we feel a huge step be necessary to bring attention to the economic and constitutional damage that be be work on Northern Ireland due to the punish intention of the EU . we do so know that there be many who do not grasp the rationale , and many would refuse to attempt to grasp that rationale . we do it despite the call of many other who say that the deal be do and could not be alter . we do it , and we prove they wrong . our leader and deputy leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , do that very directly , and we see the benefit of that — there be negative , yes , but there be benefit too . let we focus on those benefit . the deal could be alter , and it be . the EU could come to term with the change , and they do . our government could achieve more than the Windsor framework , and they do . those three thing have happen . let I be entirely clear : the work be not yet achieve . this House will be the place to make those change . our leader and other member who have speak have say that we will be make change , and I look forward to work alongside the Secretary of State and Minister of State for Northern Ireland to ensure that the change that we collectively wish to see can be make , right here in this place . my colleague in the Assembly will be work to ensure that there be no restriction to trade within this United Kingdom and that our business can operate — that we can receive Amazon delivery and get our veterinary medication through the committee that be go to be set up for that purpose . my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) will be actively involve in that . turn to our tree and seed , I understand that 11 of those product have already be agree . a further 21 be in the pipeline to be agree , and other will follow , so thing be happen . there have also be a very significant reduction in the number of product that will be in the green lane . at the minute , it be 20 % ; I understand that by September of this year , that figure will drop to 5 % , so there be constructive and positive way forward . I will give the example of a company in Newtownards . the day that our party executive accept that we would go with the deal , a gentleman who have two shop — one in Ards , one in Bangor — and employ 12 people tell I that a company in Manchester supply he with 300 product for which he have to do over 200 piece of paperwork . that mean almost 6 , 000 paper transaction . on the day that our party agree and the Bill go through here in Westminster , all of that paperwork disappear , and he can now bring in 300 product without the paperwork . another person contact I about pet food : they be tell that in three week ' time , which be now a week away , all of that pet food will be able to come in . those be example of how the deal be work , so let we look at the positive . will my hon . friend join I in also welcome the communication that both the Secretary of State and myself have receive from a very prominent nursery sell plant , tree and shrub in Northern Ireland ? that nursery be at the forefront of the campaign to have the issue and problem recognise , and since our agreement — since the publication of the Command Paper — it be see real improvement in its access to plant , shrub and tree . its supply chain have already improve , even before the new measure have be fully implement . I thank my right hon . friend for that point . he be absolutely right : without mention they in the House , we all know who that person be and what their company be . they have a number of nursery , and other nursery , include those in my constituency of Strangford , will also feel the benefit . we have to look at those positive . in this House , the voice of Northern Ireland will not be silent when it come to try to find a way forward to improve thing yet again , and to get more for the people of Northern Ireland from all community . we need to achieve more in term of economic drive , an entirely new funding mechanism , and numerous other intervention . at the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee last week , the Secretary of State very helpfully refer to the review of the Barnett consequential and a well way of do that , so that all the people of Northern Ireland can access those money . those be the fact of the case . today ' s Humble Address do not deal with they , but with an issue that be equally important to many people in Northern Ireland : our constitutional position . for many month , some in the Irish Government and , indeed , on these Benches who try to browbeat we with the threat of joint authority from Dublin . newspaper headline scream that step be be take to ensure that decision concern Northern Ireland be make in co - ordination with the Irish Government , all stir up a people who have never feel more unwelcome within our own nation and , indeed , begin to feel unwanted within this Union — if you listen to the hype . today ' s motion be not to inform our king of anything that he do not know . he understand the constitutional position as well as his mother , Queen Elizabeth the faithful , do as a Queen who serve her God and her people so well . the reason for today ' s motion be to make clear to those who have feel a disconnect from the Government that there can be no joint authority and no movement without consent . it be really important that we make that clear . of course , we hear the rambling of a determined Sinn F é in — the same absentee mp who do not turn up here , who do not take any decision or get involve in any Select Committees to discuss way forward — that a united Ireland be on the horizon . that may be the case , but it will not be because the people of this nation do not want we ; it will be because the people of Northern Ireland have decide . that be where the consent principle lie . this Humble Address underline the position of this government — a position that many have question . as the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say to I recently , a rebuilding of trust be need among the unionist people , and this be merely one step in that journey . I welcome the fact that the Minister of State and Secretary of State have commit to that principle of build trust . I have hear many people talk about how their identity be not wrap in a flag . it be entirely their right to say so , yet within that statement be a disparaging inference that our identity be so fragile . I know that member have hear this before , but I seek to remind people of what have be whitewash and seek to be rewrite : people from every community face horrific grief and pain . we live a life of check under car , of see blue light and frantically try to think of where your family be when you hear news on tv that a bomb have go off or something else have happen . we live a life of head to church and have man station at the door to protect the congregation after Sunday service — of child see gunman indiscriminately spray a building , reload and spray their bullet once again , kill and wounding as people seek to pray . we live a life of go to get meat from the butcher on a Saturday afternoon and have a bomb go off , or have dinner at a local restaurant where you could be set alight by napalm . those be the life that we from Northern Ireland all live . these thing be important , because we be try to find a new future and a new way forward . my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley refer to a future that involve all of the community . the past year be the first year in which someone be not kill by terrorist — I have not realise that until my right hon . friend say it , but that be an indication of where we be go . our identity be not fragile , but our history be , and what keep many of we go through that time be the knowledge that we would not bow to the terrorist : we would not cower before their demand , and we would stay stand . we have do that , and today we be do so again in this Chamber — collectively , and from all political party . as someone who have lose love one to the trouble , as many of we on this side of the House have — we all know these case — the constitutional issue be not about the colour of a passport , but about whether the shedding of blood and the grief of a mother be of worth or be in vain . for I , that be the key issue as I try to build a future for my child and grandchild , and for everybody else ' s child and grandchild , whatever side of the community they come from . that be the future I want to see , and I believe it be the future my people want to see . it be about whether stand against evil be honour by this place , or forget by this place . that be why today ' s Humble Address be so important : it remind the Unionist people who feel so down - trodden , unwanted and forget that this Union have not forsake they , and that the Government of this great nation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be prepared to stand against the tide of unification by stealth and uphold the principle of consent . for that reason , I and my party very much welcome the Humble Address . it be the right thing to do , and it be what we want . I look forward to hear from the Minister . with the leave of the House , I rise to close the debate on this Humble Address , and I be very grateful to everyone who have participate in it . this be a Unionist Government , and we be steadfast in our belief that the good future for Northern Ireland will always be as an integral part of a strong and prosperous United Kingdom , even as we respect the legitimate right of other to pursue another outcome . we be the most successful political and economic Union in the world , something with which a majority of member of this House would agree . this debate have reiterate the unwavering support for the Union across the House . we have reaffirm the importance of uphold the Belfast / Good Friday agreement in all its strand . we have acknowledge the foundational importance of the act of Union 1800 , include the economic provision under article 6 — much as I listen to the word of some member opposite — and we have recognise that joint authority be not provide for in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement in respect of the UK and irish Governments . I be most grateful to the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) , for his speech . we be unite in congratulate the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , and we be absolutely united in wish the First Minister and Deputy First Minister every success in their endeavour . it have be say several time by the shadow Secretary of State and other , but " never again " , and I think we be all united in our hope that never again will Northern Ireland go without an Executive . the shadow Secretary of State mention the all - island economy , which be a matter that have particular sensitivity for DUP Members , and make reference to the joint report . he ask about the effect of repeal the relevant section . as he know , the joint report and its provision predate our departure from the EU . now that we have leave the EU , the withdrawal agreement make provision in fulfilment of many of those matter . the joint report to which the shadow Secretary of State refer have be supersede by the withdrawal agreement and by the trade and co - operation agreement . of course , I know I have not teach he anything he do not know already . at the moment , we be of course in regular dialogue with the EU , and as far as we be aware , the EU be satisfied with the way we be proceed . what I would say to he be that , at the moment , I have no reason to believe there will be any significant consequence of the repeal of that section . I be very grateful to the Minister for that explanation , and of course I be aware that the joint report predate the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , but if it be in effect render redundant by that Act , why do that Act make specific provision to have regard to the joint report ? element be relevant at the time , as the Secretary of State have just mention to I , but , alas , I be not the relevant Minister at the time . I do the European Union ( Withdrawal Agreement ) Act 2020 , not the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 . however , if I be advise otherwise by official after this debate , I shall certainly write to the shadow Secretary of State and place a copy of the letter in the Library of the House . I be not expect to be advise that there would be significant consequence , but I shall certainly take advice . I particularly appreciate the shadow Secretary of State ' s exegesis of the act of Union . I be not a great historian , and I appreciate his run through those thing . we be of course all absolutely united in our desire for a well future for Northern Ireland . the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) welcome the compromise and the pragmatism of everyone involve . I do not think I will tease he , as he have tease I , on that particular point . he make a very thoughtful speech about people ' s ability to indicate their consent or otherwise to membership of a particular state , and he raise some important matter that I will not have time to go into . I particularly appreciate , of course , the leader of the DUP ' s speech . I think this be a very good day for Unionism . speak as an English MP , even though I have be choose to go to Northern Island since 2013 , it be very easy as an English MP to neglect the Union . what we have see through this process be that the whole Government and the whole House have come far more deeply to appreciate the need to nurture the Union . I think today be a good day for the Union , and I think the right hon . Gentleman and his right hon . and hon . friend have do a service to the whole Union by highlight these issue and force we all to confront the need to nurture the Union , even if , as I think it be fair to say , it be not one of the most prominent issue in english constituency . I certainly pay tribute to he and his DUP colleague for what they have achieve . as the right hon . Gentleman make a point about the red lane , and the need to improve far and move more good out of it , which I be absolutely all for do , I think it be worth remind everyone of who vote for the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill . I believe everyone in the DUP vote for the Bill . indicate assent . there be nod of assent . the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill establish the principle that there should be a red lane , and we do need to remember that the red lane be therefore legitimate . it be something that we should all have expect . on the issue that have be invent , I think we have enough practical problem in this life without invent additional one . I want to turn to the remark of the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , because he say that Brexit be the original sin . I be go to accept the temptation that he put before I to respond on this point . occasionally , we get the opportunity to comment on matter of historical sin , and I hope the House will forgive I if I say that to I the original sin be proceed with the Maastricht treaty and all it mean without get consent . it be compound by the mortal sin of proceed with the Lisbon treaty positively against the express wish of a number of population . that be what bring I into politic — positively establish the european constitution by another name against the express wish of population in referenda . I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point about Brexit be the original sin . although I be tempt to say that I be an unapologetic Unionist , a waggish official remind I early , " but , Minister , you ' ve make a number of apology " — apology notably in relation to Ireland , but I do not mind share with the House and the public that , during the early day of my appointment to this role , I say to a number of stakeholder group in Northern Ireland , particularly in the area of Derry / Londonderry , " yes , I be sorry that you have be put to as much trouble as you have through this withdrawal process . " I have great sympathy with what he say , but if we can step back a little , out of this whole process , there be a lesson for those who wish to make great constitutional change , and that be to take the public with they at all time , but I be certainly not perfect in that regard . I for one , however , wish to put all that behind we and to move forward . the hon . Gentleman mention the all - Ireland economy and talk about the need for east - west and north - south to operate in harmony , and I be of one mind with he . I be absolutely all for free trade and remove all barrier to free trade wherever that can be do consistently with democratic consent . Casement Park come up a couple of time , and we need to see a proper business case with a full statement of the cost involve . clearly , there have be inflation in the cost , and we need to see what the full bill would be . revenue raising be part of the financial settlement table in December . the Government ' s primary objective be to support stability and fiscal sustainability through a restore executive who have the tool to deliver well outcome for the people of Northern Ireland in an affordable way . that be why a condition of this package — specifically , the quantum of debt to be write off — will be agree on a proportionate basis to locally raise revenue generate from the implementation of the Executive ' s fiscal sustainability plan . the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) make a very interesting speech . I do not doubt that we have arrive where we be by a circuitous route , but here we be , and I think this be a happy day for Unionism overall . as the right hon . Gentleman the leader of the DUP say , we have a great opportunity to go forward now and make Northern Ireland work for all the people and to persuade they , in the context of those change demographic , that they would be well place to continue to choose to remain within the United Kingdom . the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) set I a number of question , and I do not wish to far return to the rabbit hole he mention on border poll . I think I will just refer to my opening remark , which be craft to avoid any kind of ambiguity . he ask : when will we see action ? we have see action : we have legislate twice already , we be here for this Humble Address and we will continue to take action . on the veterinary medicine working group , I will undertake to write to the hon . Gentleman before the week be out on the progress in establish it , and I will place that letter in the Library so that other can see it , because I know it be a subject of the first importance , particularly to he . I shall write to he to set out our progress towards establish that working group . I give official very clear instruction that we be to proceed with great haste , as swiftly as possible , to the establishment of that group and the horticulture working group . the horticulture working group be already establish , and we will have further communication to do on that point . intertrade be dependent on the East - West Council , and we will need to work through those issue , include across Government . the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that for east - west work to be effective we must properly engage , particularly with our colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and with the other devolve administration . let we get this thing right . that mean it will take just a little time , and I hope he can bear with I . as I say in my opening remark , I be determined to proceed as swiftly as possible and to keep the House inform , include on the point about the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs . the hon . Gentleman have already undertake to give I the example he mention , and I look forward to process those . his history be well than mine . he refer to the Home Rule debate in 1879 , and let we hope that we continue to do well than they do . they take 78 year to resolve some of those matter . we have already make swifter progress , and I be proud of it . I thank the Minister for that . of course , the Home Rule debate be bring to a cataclysmic end — we see on the wall of this Chamber the testament to that end and to the great war of 1914 . have the Minister make any progress on farm machinery ? that be promise during the last legislative process that we go through . can he confirm tonight that there have be a breakthrough on the sale of egg ? People might think this be crack , but it be not . it be important , because 80 % of all egg hatch in Northern Ireland be sell on the mainland . egg - cellent ! it be egg - cellent . if that be not the case , and if there be a problem due to veterinary medicine , or salmonella , that matter of sale would be bring to an immediate end . will the Minister confirm that there have be a derogation this evening for Northern Ireland with regard to the sale of egg across the United Kingdom ? [ interruption . ] I do not have any " break " news to share with the hon . Gentleman tonight — but I be most grateful to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for that joke , which people will recognise as be characteristic of he . I have slightly exceed the time that I intend to take . I listen carefully to the speech from the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) , and I have considerable sympathy with the point she make . I think I accept in my opening remark that this be a hard compromise for Unionists and Eurosceptics , but I remain convinced and resolute that we have take forward measure that respect the legitimate interest of Unionism in Northern Ireland and across the whole UK , and that move matter forward . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , as always , make a great speech . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) cause I in his challenge to doubt myself on the issue of vat , so I want to affirm the position . the position on vat be clear : the framework secure legally bind change so that Northern Ireland benefit from the same vat and alcohol taxis as in the rest of the UK . those have be use to introduce relief on energy saving material , to apply alcohol duty reform UK wide , and to ensure that draught relief apply for beer sell in all UK pub . those benefit be be feel now in Northern Ireland and across the UK . the hon . member for North Antrim raise eori and I will be glad to return to that issue . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) mention plant trade , and I be pleased that , like she , business have welcome measure in the Command Paper . early this month my right hon . friend the Secretary of State receive a letter from prominent Northern Ireland horticultural business state that , thankfully , with the restauration of the Executive they be already experience positive feedback from their supplier in Great Britain , who be " optimistic " about trade with they without any challenge . let I be expressly clear once again : Northern Ireland ' s position be base on consent . the task for those of we who want the Union to prosper be to consider how we broaden support for Northern Ireland ' s constitutional position in a world that be very different from the one in which the agreement be reach in 1998 . no one could really add to the speech make with great skill by my right hon . friend the leader of the Democratic Unionist party . central to that approach have to be to make Northern Ireland work and flourish , and to do so for everyone , regardless of their community background or political aspiration , which we absolutely respect . the Government will continue to work to deliver the suite of commitment make under the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper , and continue to work with the Northern Ireland Executive and Assembly Members to improve the life of people live in Northern Ireland . once again , I commend the Humble Address to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that an Humble Address be present to his Majesty welcome the return of the devolved institution in Northern Ireland , re - affirm the importance of uphold the Belfast ( Good Friday ) agreement 1998 in all its strand , acknowledge the foundational importance of the act of Union 1800 , include the economic provision under Article 6 of those act , and recognise that , consistent with section 23 ( 1 ) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , executive power in Northern Ireland shall continue to be vest in his Majesty , and that joint authority be not provide for in the Belfast ( Good Friday ) agreement 1998 in respect of the UK and irish Governments . Social Media Access in Prisons Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) why be I here talk about social medium in prison ? one of my usual expression for describe what it be like to be an MP be " push and pull " , mean that I push my experience and knowledge into this place , but I be pull by the issue that affect my constituent . I bring my life experience and business background , and I react to issue that arise , particularly those from my constituent . that be why I have be engage on issue as diverse as leave - behind neighbourhood , Ferryhill station and female hormone deficiency . today I take the opportunity to discuss two of the most challenging issue face young people : knife crime , and the damage do by social medium . those problem be horrifically exemplified by the case of my constituent Zoey McGill , and her son Jack Woodley , who be tragically stab to death in 2021 . the past few year have be incredibly challenging for Zoey . although her son ' s murderer be jail for between eight and 17 year , one can imagine her horror when she discover that one of they have make a tiktok video in which he rap about his sentence , imply that it be not serious , and he boast of have a phone while wear a designer t - shirt . as a result of my work with Zoey I become involved in the Northern Echo ' s North East Knife Crime Taskforce . it be launch last year as a way to co - ordinate the effort of individual and group who want to address the cause of knife crime and change the culture and mindset of young people who carry those weapon . Zoey have be involve in that from the start , along with other parent who also lose their child . we be see far too many example of young people be stab , and leave behind relative fight for a cause . as be say at the last session of the North East Knife Crime Taskforce , those parent and family do not sign up for that job , but they have absolutely no choice but to do it . one of those be Theresa Cave , whose son Chris be stab to death in Redcar in 2003 . Chris ' s mother , Theresa , launch the POINT 7 anti - gun and knife crime programme for young people age 11 to 25 . in 2007 , Samantha Jane Madgin be 18 year old and on her first night out with friend after the birth of her son only week before . she be brutally stab to death by a 15 - year - old girl . samantha ' s friend and family create Samantha ' s Legacy , and their mission be to prevent knife crime , raise awareness and engagement , and support other family who have be affect by that atrocious crime . in 2019 , 18 - year - old Connor Brown , who be on a night out in Sunderland , tragically lose his life try to prevent other people from get hurt in a knife attack . connor ' s mother , Tanya , and family and friend create the Connor Brown Trust in order to provide young people with a bespoke youth work programme that benefit they and the wide community . there be too many family like they , and it be imperative that we in this place do all we can to help . social media be well identify as a source of information in prison . the term " fake news " be well know , and it be imperative that those who have be influence or radicalise by false agenda be not far influence in that way during their time in prison . for that reason alone , access to social medium platform in prison should be frustrate . I be concerned enough about what inmate could see and hear on social medium , but give they the opportunity to broadcast be even more disturbing . it be incumbent on we all in this place to do everything we can to stop this cancer . Zoey recently say that people sometimes ask how she manage to do she campaigning , and she say that it give her strength and comfort . I admire that attitude enormously , but neither Zoey nor any of the other parent I have mention , or any other parent that be affect , should be in this position in the first place . as gov . uk states , for anyone who care to check , it be a criminal offence to give a prisoner a mobile phone — or other item such as illegal drug , alcohol and weapon . the rule around access to social medium in prison be likewise clear : prisoner be not allow to access social network site while in custody . in fact , it be not even possible to email prisoner directly . I commend the hon . gentleman on secure this debate . I do some research in this area , as he have . do he agree that there be no human right allow access to social medium in prison ? we should encourage rehabilitation — that be the right thing to do — rather than social medium engagement . although access to the internet , and training in understand how to use medium successfully in the outside world , be of use , the ability to post a Facebook status should never be facilitate in prison . I could not agree more , and I will cover some of those point as I continue . the close those inside be mean to come to electronic communication be the Email a Prisoner service , which allow those outside prison to send a prisoner an email ; it be print out and deliver on paper . some prison will allow photo to be attach , but that be all . I suspect that if prisoner be actually limit to that form of communication , prison and the wide community would be well for it . nevertheless , as a Ministry of Justice report from 2018 recognise , " mobile phone in prison be use for a range of purpose , both social and criminal , and would appear to have become a significant feature of prison life . " since that report , the Prison Service have undertake the long - term project of instal landline in cell in close public - sector prison . that begin before the pandemic . the last installation be due to be complete shortly . these phone work the same way as the payphone on landing that be previously use by prisoner . the prisoner use a PIN to access their account , and must purchase credit . the call be restrict to clear number and be outgo only . this innovation prevent the issue that often occur with landing payphone , such as a lack of privacy and fight break out in the queue . as Julie Brett , deputy director of innovation and business change at his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service , tell Inside Time : " feedback from people in prison have consistently identify that in - cell PIN phone improve the quantity and quality of contact with their family and friend thank to the opportunity they provide . these include be able to make call at a time to suit everyone in a more private setting away from busy landing , and remove the need to queue to use a phone during brief unlock period . " that seem to I to be well in excess of what prisoner should have , but it also remove any argument about the need for they to have access to a mobile phone . I therefore believe that prisoner have no legitimate reason to possess a mobile phone , since a desire to contact their family be probably the only reason for a prisoner have a phone that most people could possibly sympathise with . instead , prisoner look for mobile phone to continue their criminal activity , to harass victim and their family , or to remain in connection with the lifestyle that get they into prison in the first place . it must stop . I draw attention to the work that my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) have do on phone in prison , particularly though her private Member ' s Bill . it be already an offence to make video recording in prison , but the Prison Media Bill seek to close a loophole that allow third party outside a prison to upload an illegal recording make inside a prison , or of prison worker on prison land . the Bill also specify that the location of a record device be not relevant , so record a prison from a drone outside would still be an offence . the Bill will clarify exist legislation , which make no specific provision for drone fly above prison land or recording image of the inside of an open prison . it be hope that it will increase the security of prison and those who work there ; they would also be protect from unauthorised recording . moreover , the Bill would likely cause social medium company to remove image and video that violate those condition . such a step would make all the difference to people like Zoey , who continue to be harass by her son ' s murderer and their family via social medium and image take in prison . one can debate whether the primary purpose of prison sentence be to rehabilitate the prisoner with a view to reintegrate they in society , or to punish they for their crime , but a denial of liberty , and therefore of social medium , be necessary in both case . I be grateful to the hon . member for secure this Adjournment debate . it be awful to hear about the appalling experience of his constituent , a victim of knife crime . her campaign on access to social medium be brave . in 2013 , the Government seek to take from prisoner the right to access and read book . the Howard League for Penal Reform fight against that in its successful 2014 campaign , which be all about education and rehabilitation . do the hon . member believe as I do that prisoner ought to have access to book ? it be like anything else : it depend which book we be talk about . if it be book about how to develop a new gun , the answer be no , but if you be talk about — [ interruption . ] my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . we could , however , be talk about educational book about the world prisoner want to go into . as with everything else in this place , the devil be in the detail of what we do . a question in this case be : how can a person be rehabilitate if they still participate in the same social group as before ? they may do so virtually , but for many young people , their virtual activity be as real and meaningful as their physical one . we would not allow prisoner serve time for murder to leave for the evening and have a drink with their friend , so why should we tolerate they have unmonitored video call with the same people ? the purpose of prison — especially for serious crime — ought to be punishment . it be no bad thing if prisoner be sit in their cell , sadly wonder what be go on with their old friend and feel out of touch with the outside world . the denial of liberty and restrict access to the world outside prison be exactly the point of be lock up . the rule be clear : mobile phone be not allow among prisoner . Jack ' s killer should never have be able to make or post a video . I also question why the murderer should be dress in a designer t - shirt , look to all and sundry as though he be about to go on a night out . in response to Zoey ' s complaint , the Prison Service say that mobile phone be not tolerate , and that those who have they face extra time in prison . may I ask the Minister what be happen in this case , and what step be be take to prevent something like this from happen again ? what repercussion have follow for this individual ? we must demonstrate that action have consequence ; otherwise , we give the impression that the justice system think it be acceptable to show off contraband such as mobile phone in prison , and to use it to harass a victim ' s family . step such as airport - style security be take to prevent contraband , but whatever the current approach be , it need more energy , because this be not an isolated case of a prisoner possess a phone . I acknowledge that we be take step in the right direction . legislation be pass last October to crack down on the use of drone in prison . previously , bizarrely , police could act on drone sighting near prison only if there be evidence that drone be be use to smuggle contraband . why else would a person fly a drone above a prison ? to admire the architecture ? I think not . since last month , it have become an offence to fly a drone within 400 metre of closed prison and young offender ' institute in England and Wales . a fine of £ 2 , 500 could be issue for fly a drone , but , importantly , for those who deliver the good , the punishment could be up to 10 year in prison . we have see intercept drone delivery carry more than £ 35 , 000 of ban good , but some of that be before the law change . I be delighted to see that change in law . on contraband in prison , it seem to I that mobile phone should be the easy to find and remove from the prison estate . the technology to find they exist , and it would make a significant difference in the behaviour of prisoner if use widely . for example , the company unify offer a " detect " service that provide constant mobile detection and send real - time alert when it pick up unauthorised use of mobile phone . use Bluetooth and wi - fi signal , it can locate the precise location of the phone , down to the cell . can the Minister tell I how widely such technology be use in prison to combat the use of mobile phone ? would his Department consider expand its use ? with phone come social medium . I do not need to tell hon . member about the harm that social medium can cause , even among user who have not be convict of murder . in a place like prison , social medium can be even more influential , as it be one of the few form of contact use to get to the outside world . we know that it amplify the peer pressure that young people already face , and it have be link to poor mental health in teenager . technology and social medium can also be use positively to address issue such as knife crime . we have see many example of social medium pressure be a key part of drive young people to action that result in they be in prison . some exciting technology be be work on — particularly in virtual reality — which could help . the EdTech company Round Midnight have do pioneer work , use art and technology , to engage young people in discussion on many sensitive topic . it offer a range of virtual reality workshop , and create curriculum design to transform student ' learn experience while tackle important social issue . the company ' s youth engagement programme promote mental wellbeing and social responsibility , and address critical issue such as knife crime . I have see an example of its work , in which it use people who have be involve in knife crime as actor , and the person have the virtual experience be leave to make decision at various stage , base on question they be ask . it be interactive , and something that they can learn from ; they can see the consequence without be in a real world scenario . the pressure that social medium can put on people absorb in that world be intense . the company I mention be the lead provider of virtual reality workshop . it create bespoke programme and train teacher in school across the country . most importantly , its approach work , because it focus on area that the target audience care about . the recent North East Knife Crime Taskforce event , lead by the Northern Echo , allow participant to use a virtual reality headset to explore the potential consequence of carry a knife . the video be create with funding from the Home Office and West Midlands police , base on a similar tool that focus on gang . they believe that it can be an important preventive tool for people who be not involve in crime but could be pressure into it or tempt by it . the headset demonstrate how social medium be use to pressure people to commit crime . I be interested in whether it can be develop as a tool for people who be in prison to understand how they get there , and how the outcome could have be different for they and their family . the virtual reality video be follow by a creative workshop that encourage participant to explore the issue in more depth . young people can reflect on their journey through the video , and compare their experience with that of other participant . the session be not a lecture about the danger of carry a knife but a user - lead experience . when I be work on leave - behind neighbourhood , we talk initially about try to help community , then about help they to help themselves , and finally about enable they to help themselves without we be there in any way , shape or from . the same apply here : we be try to create a situation in which the people who be engage in the process feel that it be their space and they can learn from it . innovative approach involve virtual reality could be use to prepare inmate for reintegration in society , with a view to reduce reoffende . there be example around the world : in the United States , Colorado have implement a three - year juvenile and young adult convict as adult programme , for those who commit serious offence at a young age . since those people often enter prison before they develop life skill such as shop for food , the virtual reality programme allow they to practise task in a safe and control environment . Knife crime be a much big issue , but the principle be the same . other state use virtual reality to help offender develop empathy for their victim or to reduce aggressive behaviour . a pilot programme in Alaska use virtual reality to incorporate mindfulness practice ; the pilot result in a decrease in disciplinary write - up and few report of depression and anxiety . those process can move people to a well place . we know that employment can be a problem . in Michigan , there be a virtual reality programme that help people practise for a job interview . there be many example of people run prison and similar service use the tool to get people to a well place . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) mention the opportunity for book ; I want people to get to a well place by the time they be release , but if they be not , they must understand that there be consequence of what they have do . the professor who lead the study I just refer to comment : " above just the employment rate , those that interview with Molly " — the virtual hire manager — " have strong interview skill … great reduction in interview anxiety " . I be absolutely sure that such organisation can develop programme that will deliver much well outcome for repeat offender and an appreciation of the impact of social medium on other . social medium can be such a positive or negative experience , depend on how people engage with it , and such tool can get we to that place . music video on social medium can also influence people in a way that be difficult to imagine for those of we who do not grow up with social medium . many video glamorise a life of crime , treat serious offence as proof of strength and encourage other to follow suit . it be the lyric of these song that be the problem , not the music style itself . a number of organisation have use the same type of music , such as rap and hip - hop , as a way to access young people and give they a positive message . for example , Scotland ' s large prison , Barlinnie , have begin offer a programme that give inmate an opportunity to change their life through hip - hop music . the label Conviction Records support ex - offender by run a programme that culminate in a performance of their piece . the workshop allow prisoner to express themselves and envisage a well life outside , at the end of their sentence . one participant say that it have give he such a sense of purpose it motivate he to avoid reoffende . that be what we want for people come out — we do not want they to reoffend . the programme be fund by Creative Scotland . do the Minister know of any similar plan for prison in England and Wales , and , if not , whether we could look at similar initiative ? speak with Zoey recently , she be quick to emphasise the benefit of social medium , along with the horrendous damage it can do . she speak about how last week would have be Jack ' s 21st birthday . in honour of he — how brave be this ? — she post a video of their final moment together , when it be clear he be about to pass away . she say it have since be view nearly 2 million time and the feedback have be almost universally positive . in particular , a man contact she to say that he use to be in a gang and have lose his good friend to knife crime . he now educate young people about the danger of that life to help they to make well decision . it be about get the tool that have be use against people turn around and move in the right direction . if rap be the thing that people engage with , then fine — but let we find rap people who be positive to this agenda . Zoey have find people like that , and I really do applaud they . the problem we have be that the work of people involve in the Northern Echo ' s North East Knife Crime Taskforce can so easily be undermine by post such as the one by Jack ' s killer , which give the impression that knife crime be not serious and prison be not a punishment . that be just so wrong . we can not force a person to feel remorse for what they have do — that man clearly do not — but we can take step to prevent they from influence other to do the same . to do that effectively , crime involve social medium have to be take more seriously . Zoey be still try to get the police to deal with her son ' s murderer and their family , who have be post confidential document about Jack on TikTok and Facebook which they obtain during the trial . she have find the process to be tortuously slow . I would like the Minister to affirm that prison need to be a deterrent and need to be see to be so . we need consequence of action to be publicise , not hide . we need education for those in prison on how they could react differently give their time again . we need victim like Zoey , Theresa , Samantha , Tanya , and the far too many other impact , to have the protection of the system to prevent further distress from those convict , and the belief that the lesson from each of their experience be be apply far and wide to reduce occurrence of these shatter crime . I would like to understand what be be do to frustrate access to tool that enable social medium access . what be be do to stop victim like Zoey suffer far ? I would like to see that we can use tool to educate and inform those who have make mistake , but we must also ensure that those who do not recognise their error be not give platform to promote their action . as ever , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be a pleasure to serve with you in the Chair . you will be reassure to know that I do not intend to take all the time available and speak until 10 . 30 pm , but I be genuinely pleased that in a debate of such significance we have enough time to address the issue that have be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) , whom I congratulate on secure it . I want to take this opportunity to express my deep sympathy for my hon . friend ' s constituent Zoey McGill , the bereaved mother of Jack . for Jack ' s murderer to have be allegedly use TikTok in prison be sicken , and no parent should have to suffer in this way . that be one of the reason I stand at the Dispatch Box this evening to respond to my hon . friend and explain how the Government plan to prevent such incident from happen in the future . will the Minister give way ? how can I say no to the hon . Gentleman ? the hon . member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) say that the video have be make in prison , and the other people involve be in prison . surely , give the clear evidential base , there must be a methodology enable the governor to take this person to task and impose sanction to ensure that he spend a long time in prison . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will bear with I for a moment , because I will turn to that specific point . however , I want to begin by highlight the close interest that my hon . friend have take in this horrific case on behalf of his constituent . as we all know , he be unfailingly courteous , diligent and passionate as a constituency Member , when act and speak on behalf of his constituent , but I think he would acknowledge that however diligent he be in relation to all case , some case have a real impact on an individual Member of Parliament , and I suspect that this be one of they . he and I have speak about this case on a number of occasion , and I pay tribute to his work on behalf of his constituent , but I can reassure the House that no soon do it hit his desk than it hit my own desk and my mobile phone . I also thank my hon . friend for raise the extremely important and challenging issue of knife crime — a crime that destroy life and , so often , not just the life of those who be not carry knife and who end up as innocent victim . we also need to remember , and to remind people , that those who carry knife be at serious risk of be victim themselves . the Government take the threat pose by knife crime incredibly seriously , as have be demonstrate by our investment of £ 170 million since 2019 alone on prevention and enforcement initiative in the 20 policing area where violent crime be most prominent . that include Northumbria , which cover Newcastle , Sunderland , and the surround area . through those initiative , an estimate 136 , 000 violent offence across the country have be prevent in the first three year of their operation . as a result of these effort , together with the broad Home Office serious violence strategy , 120 , 000 weapon have be remove from Britain ' s street , and knife crime be now 7 % below pre - pandemic level . I also want to acknowledge the important work of the North East Knife Crime Taskforce . I be aware of the vital work that it do — not least from the representation make to I by my hon . friend — and of how it bring together victim ' family , representative of sport club , teacher and people from across the criminal justice system to share idea and forward - think strategy to help prevent life from be lose on our street . this relatively new organisation , found last year , have be set up and drive by that national institution the Northern Echo and by brave local parent , include Zoey McGill . let I take a moment to pay tribute to she for her dignity in the face of a terrible tragedy , and her willingness to put herself out there to try to make a difference and prevent this from happen to other family . in that vein , I should recognise , as my hon . friend do , Theresa on behalf of Chris , Samantha ' s family and friend , and Tanya on behalf of Connor . as constituency Members of Parliament and as a House , we owe a huge debt to those who have suffer the most unthinkable thing , but who want to make a difference and prevent they from happen to anyone else . tackle knife crime and prevent future victim be a policy area lead by my colleague in the Home Office , but I will be very happy to work with my hon . friend and Home Office colleague to see what can be do to work with the taskforce . my hon . Friend rightly mention that Jack Woodley ' s murderer allegedly be able to access social medium potentially undermine the criminal justice system and , of course , torment the family of victim . that be clearly unacceptable , which be why my Department have invest in the digital medium investigation unit . as soon as it spot or be alert to prisoner misuse of social medium , it act swiftly to work with social medium company to have the content take down . in the case of Jack ' s murderer , the team do just that : they quickly and thoroughly investigate that social medium misuse , and successfully work with tiktok to remove the content — and , indeed , the account — within three hour of it come to our attention . I appreciate that this will frustrate my hon . friend , but I must be a bit cautious about speak about the detail of that specific case in the public forum of the Floor of the House . we be clear that there be robust system in place to prevent and address poor behaviour in prison , include serious rule breaking . under section 40d ( 3A ) of the Prison Act 1952 , those catch with a mobile phone can face referral to the police and extra custodial time for the offence of possess a communication device in a prison without authorisation , while those who be catch smuggle in phone can face the same consequence under section 40b ( 1 ) ( a ) of the same Act . as the Minister responsible for prison , I be increasingly concern by photo and video from custody be share on social medium . such content traumatise victim , can intimidate prison staff and threaten the security of our prison . it be indeed a critical issue , and I recognise the impact that this type of online material can have on victim of crime and their family . in separate case from those mention by my hon . friend , I be make aware that a parent whose son have be murder contact his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service after see photo on social medium that be post from prison by their son ' s murderer . hmpps report the content to the platform in question but , regrettably , it remain online . in another example , the victim of an assault contact HMPPS about a video of their attacker in prison , who talk for almost 15 minute about the offence and be disparage about the victim . again , HMPPS report the video to the platform on which it be host but , regrettably , it remain online . I can not imagine the distress that see those post must have cause . as my hon . Friend state , we can not allow prisoner to use illegal phone to engage in criminality from behind bar . the Ministry of Justice have a zero - tolerance approach to illegal phone , and prisoner catch smuggle illicit item can and , rightly , do face extra time behind bar , a loss of privilege and other sanction . the most serious crime , include those where a mobile phone have be use for criminal activity or identify as belong to a prisoner who be a high - risk offender , be also refer to the police , in line with the crime in prison referral agreement . we have a commitment from the Crown Prosecution Service that it will always seek to prosecute in serious case . moreover , prisoner be not permit to have unsupervise access to the internet or any access to social medium . again , they can be punish if they access the internet without authorisation . under national policy , prisoner can only access the internet in a supervised environment , and only for rehabilitative purpose . we be clear that harmful social medium content post from prison should not have a home online and that we need to take effective action to remove it . clearly , the current legislation do not quite go far enough , which be why the Government be commit to support the Prison Media Bill , which be introduce by my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) . the Bill tackle the issue of harmful medium , such as video and image create within , or show the inside of , prison , be upload to social medium platform by strengthen exist legislation — namely , the Prison Act 1952 . crucially , the Bill would close exist loophole , because although it be currently illegal for a person to upload content from inside a prison , it be not yet illegal for a person in the community to upload medium that they have be send by someone in custody . this mean that social medium company need to try to establish whether content be upload from inside a prison , to determine whether it be unlawful . the Bill would make the uploading of all unauthorised prison content illegal , regardless of whether it be upload from within a prison or from within the community . the Bill will also address loophole around the creation of prison content . while it be currently illegal to film inside a prison , the law be not clear that it be illegal to film the inside of a prison from the outside — for example , by drone — or to film staff from outside the prison wall . for example , video take from above by drone can pose security risk by show the lay - out of building in detail as well as the movement of staff and prisoner , thereby help prisoner to smuggle in drug or weapon . the Bill provide a solution to these issue by make it an offence to create or upload unauthorised medium of the inside of a prison from outside or of prison worker on prison land . these measure will remove any ambiguity and bring the law up to date . this be a wide - range problem with real - world impact . I have mention a just few example today , but in 2022 and 2023 combine , hmpps identify and report over 1 , 200 piece of harmful prison content . the Bill will support the work of hmpps ' s specialist digital medium investigation unit that I have already reference . last year this Government pass the Online Safety Act 2023 , place world - first legal duty on social medium platform to protect the public from harmful online material . if this additional Bill pass , we will explore how content create of or inside prison could be add to the list of priority illegal content in the Online Safety Act , mean that social medium company would be require by law to proactively remove it . my hon . friend touch on the significant investment already make by the Department in stop mobile phone be smuggle into the prison estate . we finish deliver our £ 100 million security investment programme in March 2022 . we continue to adapt and develop our countermeasure to tackle new method as they emerge . that investment include the deployment of 75 additional x - ray body scanner , allow staff to see whether prisoner be smuggle illegal contraband , include phone , internally . this mean that we have the ability in every single closed adult male prison to detect illicit item via x - ray . this be particularly important as some phone , know as micro - mobile , be no big than a matchbox . they be small , easily conceal and hard to detect . between July 2020 and October 2023 , the x - ray body scanner have record 46 , 925 positive indication , help to tackle the supply of mobile phone and drug into prison . the programme also deliver airport - style enhance gate security at 42 high - risk prison site across the private and public prison estate , implement routine searching of staff and visitor . this investment pay for 659 specialist staff , 154 drug dog and more than 200 piece of equipment , include archway and handheld metal detector . these be vital tool in stop mobile phone and SIM card circulate in our prison . we have procure , develop and instal a variety of detection and other mobile phone technology across the estate , target prisoner that represent the high risk of harm through illicit phone use . I be sure my hon . friend will appreciate that I always try to be as open as I can in this public forum , but I can not go into in as much detail as he would wish about the specific of what the equipment do , where it be deploy or the extent of its capability , or disclose supplier due to security and commercial sensitivity and to protect the tactic involve . it be vital that those seek to undermine our defence be not give any information that help they to do so , but I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend separately and privately to discuss this area in more detail and hopefully provide he with further reassurance about our capability in this respect . he mention virtual reality , and that be an area I will look into far . we will consider the merit of potential option that would allow for VR delivery in regard to the training and rehabilitation of prisoner . as my hon . Friend highlight , in October 2023 we also introduce new legislation to crack down on criminal use drone to deliver contraband include mobile phone into prison . the new airspace restriction make it an automatic offence to fly drone within 400 metre of any closed prison or young offender institution in England and Wales . drone operator who break the rule could face fine of up to £ 2 , 500 , while those find smuggle illicit item will face up to 10 year in prison . these restriction mean that police and prison staff can quickly identify suspicious drone and take action against suspect criminal activity , include the illegal filming of prison establishment . we be also invest in a new digital forensic unit to interrogate device smuggle into jail , to produce improved evidence that be more likely to bring a successful prosecution in court . of course , as my hon . Friend say , there be fundamentally no need for a prisoner to be in possession of a mobile phone . the last installation of landline across all closed public sector prison in England and Wales be due to be complete this month . these phone be instal in prisoner ' cell to enable close family tie and to improve safety on wing where payphone on landing be previously use . a PIN be use to access a prisoner ' s account , and credit must be purchase in advance . the call be restrict to security - clear number and be outgo only . furthermore , since 2020 , all prison across England and Wales be able to offer social video call with approve family member and friend , in addition to exist mean of contact include social visit , phone call and letter . I commend my hon . friend for raise the important issue of how young offender can engage positively with a wide range of rehabilitative endeavour , such as music , help they to move away from criminality and to rebuild their life . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) mention book , and he allude to an example from when our party be in coalition in 2014 . he be right to highlight the importance of book but , as my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield say , we need to exercise a degree of caution . I have the privilege of visit HMP Leicester last week , and I see its amazing prison library and the work it do with the Shannon Trust and the National Literacy Trust . I have about 2 , 000 book clutter my house , but we all know the power of book to give people new idea and new opportunity to make a positive start . I echo the view of my hon . friend : sentencing have five objective , one of which be to deter people from commit crime , and deprive people of their liberty represent a significant deterrent . of course , those sentence to custody be pay a debt to society and to the people they offend against . Prison also protect the public by keep in custody those convict by the court . the core role of protect the public from serious offender should also extend to give those in custody a positive choice not to pursue a lawless life but to set out on the straight and narrow . this mean that they do not reoffend , which mean few victim of crime in all the community we represent . it be important that we recognise that create and upload social medium content from within prison do not form part of that rehabilitative journey . I urge colleague across the House to close the loophole by support the Prison Media Bill ' s Second reading on Friday . I pay tribute to Zoey and other who have see their family rip apart by the horror of knife crime and other violent crime . they will know that , in my hon . friend , they have a fantastic champion and a genuinely caring and dogged advocate in this House . I believe we have make significant progress , but there be always more to do , and we be determined to do it . question put and agree to . House adjourn .