prayer the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Order , 5 September , and Standing Order no . 3 ) . before we begin today ' s business , I remind member that the deadline for submit nomination and any support statement for the Select Committee Chair election be 4 pm today . oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — Level 3 Vocational Pathways what step she be take to ensure the adequacy of the provision of level 3 vocational pathway for student . what step she be take to ensure the adequacy of the provision of level 3 vocational pathway for student . qualification must deliver on our mission , enhance and spread opportunity , and grow our economy . the last Conservative Government botch the roll - out of t - level and defunde they . that be why this Labour Government have announce a pause and review of qualification reform , to support skill growth and student , and to bring certainty where there have be chaos . [ Official Report , 7 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 1wc . ] ( correction ) this short , focused review , along with other measure , such as the curriculum assessment review and the creation of Skills England , will allow the Government to improve skill training , unlock opportunity and harness talent . there be a great many opportunity for technician and engineer , which will only increase with the Government ' s plan for clean energy and their industrial strategy . however , we be currently short of intermediate and advanced - level skilled worker in this country , so will the Secretary of State tell we how her plan will ensure that more young people make the most of those opportunity , and how our education system will deliver the qualification they need ? I know how passionate my hon . friend be about ensure that young people in Sefton and across our country be able to seize the new opportunity of the future . we be determined to drive forward and make Britain a clean energy superpower . our reform growth and skill levy will give business great flexibility and enable they to take on more young apprentice . skill England will allow we to identify the skill gap in every corner of our country and ensure that we drive forward on that mission . as a former deputy headteacher , I have see at first hand the impact of the previous Government ' s rush plan to eliminate most BTec qualification , in the midst of a botch roll - out of t - level . how do my right hon . friend intend to fix the mess that she have inherit and ensure that the diverse aspiration and varied talent of student in Wolverhampton North East be meet ? give her background in education , my hon . friend know all too well how important it be that all our young people have the opportunity to achieve and thrive . she be right that we inherit a big mess , but we have act swiftly and we be conduct a focused , intense review to ensure that all our young people have option that be available to they and we make a success of t - level . the Secretary of State be absolutely right that the previous Government botch the roll - out of t - level . in particular , the failure to deliver the t - level in hospitality and tourism be a huge blow to our community in the lake and dale . her predecessor say that be cause by a failure to gain placement in the tourism and hospitality industry . surely that be surmountable , so what plan do she have to talk to the hospitality and tourism industry in order to deliver the t - level to community like mine very soon ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point about ensure that placement be available . I be happy to ensure that he have a discussion with the Minister for Skills to make sure we address his concern about hospitality . Alderman Tooling in my constituency be one of thousand of employer now invest in the talent of tomorrow . in five year ' time , do the Secretary of State expect the number of apprentice to be high or low than today ? I pay tribute to all the business across our country that be provide high - quality skill training and apprenticeship start . however , apprenticeship start for the under - 25s fall by 38 % in the period 2015 - 16 to 2022 - 23 . it will fall to this Labour Government to turn that around . I call Calvin Bailey . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be not expect to be call so soon . I thank the Secretary of State for her focus on t - level and her recognition of the need for a pause . I back up what my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) say about the botched nature of the t - level roll - out . do the Secretary of State recognise that it be a challenge for many service , such as the NHS , to absorb t - level student effectively ? those qualification need truly to give our young people the opportunity they deserve . will she meet I and local further education expert to discuss this issue ? if member be bob , they should be prepare to be call to speak . yes , I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend . in this period of review , we be speak to employer , training provider and college to ensure that we get this right . I call Jim Shannon to show we how it be do . I thank the Minister for her response to those question . I know that she do not have direct responsibility for Northern Ireland , but may I ask she about apprenticeship ? in defence and cyber - security — in Thales and Spirit AeroSystems — and in agrifood , opportunity should be there for young lady as well as for young man . what be be do to ensure that there be equality of opportunity for everyone , both male and female ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point about ensure that people from a range of different background , include young woman , see the opportunity that exist . I have have the opportunity to meet my counterpart in Northern Ireland and I look forward to work with they to ensure that , across the UK , we can drive forward on skill , growth and opportunity for all our young people . child ' s Social Care what step she plan to take to reform child ' s social care . reform child ' s social care be critical to deliver our opportunity mission , to ensure that a child or young person ' s background do not limit their ambition . the child ' s wellbee Bill will remove barrier to opportunity and deliver the manifesto commitment on child ' s social care , so that all child have a chance to thrive in safe , love home . I thank the Minister for her answer . it be just over two year since I publish the independent review of child ' s social care , which be commission by the previous Government . the review call for a radical reset of the whole child ' s social care system , which be urgently need , and the previous Government take some modest step down that track but fail to realise the potential . since the election , a number of the child , family and care - experienced adult who be involve in the review have be in touch with I to share their hope that we will be able to deliver on the ambition of the review . do the Government intend to prioritise the resource that will be need to implement the review in the upcoming spending review ? I thank my hon . friend for the work he do on the independent review of child ' s social care , which this Government be consider as part of our reform programme . child ' s social care be a key priority for this Government , evidence by our commitment to the child ' s wellbee Bill announce in the King ' s Speech in July . a full programme for delivery will be produce in order to support that commitment . we have inherit a challenging set of economic circumstance . however , we be committed to reform child ' s social care , and that will be bring forward , as I have already mention , in the child ' s wellbee Bill . in Norfolk , as in many other area , we see during the pandemic some hugely complicated issue around early year , include lack of preparation and learn difficulty , which many of our school be deal with . will the Minister reassure I that , in this forthcoming Budget , real attention will be pay both to support that network — support the previous Government ' s introduction of early year — and to integrate well the mental health support , the learning difficulty support and the social care support ? in the end , as these be child live one life , they surely need only one network of support . I thank the hon . member for his explanation of all the various challenge experience by young people and child . if I have a crystal ball , I would be able to explain what will happen in the spending review , but as we move forward and introduce the child ' s wellbee Bill , we will bring clarity to some of the Government ' s reform . the spending review will also reveal where the Budget lie in these thing . office for student what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Office for Students . what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Office for Students . for too long , university have be treat as political battleground . this Labour Government will treat they as engine of opportunity and growth . on 26 July , I publish the report of the independent review of the Office for Students and appoint Sir David Behan , who lead the review , as the interim chair . under new leadership and with a sharpen remit , the Office for student will concentrate on secure the future of university and put student first . I welcome the Secretary of State to her position . last year , the House of Lords Industry and Regulators Committee present its report , which be very critical of the ofs — we do not need to read between the line to understand just how poorly the Committee think of it . it feel that it be serve neither the student nor the provider . what plan do she have to reset the relationship with the ofs so that it give renew focus to the student that it be suppose to represent ? I thank my hon . friend for all his work in this important area to ensure that our university be recognise as a crucial part of how we drive growth in our country . Sir David ' s review , which we publish in July , be a platform for improvement , and I welcome and accept its core finding . the Government will support the ofs in refocus on few key priority , to do what be most important for student and university , and to do it well . we will take the necessary action to support that work . young people in Weston - super - Mare and across our country deserve the very good opportunity . since 2016 , University Centre Weston have transform access to high education in our town , mean that more can study close to home , improve access . how will the Labour Government seek to strengthen the strategic objective of the Office for student to widen participation in community such as mine ? I strongly agree with my hon . friend about the importance of widen participation , and he set out clearly how university be a key part of town and city right across our country . the last Government want to use our world - lead sector as a political football , talk down institution and watch on as the situation become even more desperate . I have appoint the new interim chair to sharpen the focus of the Office for student , focus far more on the financial sustainability of the sector , and return university to be the engine of growth and opportunity that we want to see after 14 waste year . I be delighted to hear the right hon . Lady talk about engine of growth and opportunity , because that be exactly what university be when they be well run . in my county we have a new university , the New Model Institute for Technology and Engineering , which be do exactly that , and offer incredible opportunity for young people to do a master programme in three year , and then , as we be see with the new cohort , to go into company as good as BAE Systems , Kier , Balfour Beatty , the Atomic Weapons Establishment and other . that work have be assist by the Office for Students , which grant new degree - award power . do the right hon . Lady share my view that this be a deeply worthwhile enterprise that could be replicate around the country , and will she come and visit herself ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise this matter . I would be happy to meet with he to discuss it far . I call the shadow Minister . we have see attempt by hostile state to influence our high education sector , which the last Conservative Government take action to counter . do the Secretary of State therefore share the concern about report that Peking University HSBC Business School in Oxford may be partly operate under chinese Communist party rule , and do she expect the Office for student to investigate that ? the shadow Minister will know that the Office for Students be independent , but I will ensure that it look very carefully at the concern that he have set out , and address they accordingly . Academic Freedom in high Education what assessment she have make of the adequacy of level of academic freedom in the high education sector . the Government fully support academic freedom . high education must be a space for robust discussion and intellectual rigour , and it be a Labour Government that enshrine freedom of expression into law . our recent decision to pause the implementation of further part of the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 be precisely because we believe in academic freedom . it be therefore crucial that the legal framework be workable . Baroness Smith in the other place and official be speak with a range of stakeholder . their view will form part of our consideration of all option for protect academic freedom into the future . no option be off the table . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer , and welcome she to her new position . can she give the House a cast - iron guarantee that when she decide to reverse the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act , she give no consideration to the consequence of the new freedom of speech duty that the Act would impose on university in term of their financial relationship with authoritarian regime such as the People ' s Republic of China ? yes , I can give the right hon . Gentleman that reassurance . we look very carefully and very closely at the way in which the legislation be go to operate . I want to ensure that we have good , strong , workable legislation . I be concerned about what I have hear from jewish group and other minority community about the unintended consequence that might follow from the legislation . that be why I pause commencement , with a view to get this right , ensure that we protect academic freedom while avoid a situation where hate speech be allow to flourish on campus . I congratulate the Secretary of State on take the hard decision that be need in Government , and I be very pleased to hear that no option be off the table . what reassurance can she give I and other woman that she will protect female academic , such as Jo Phoenix , Kathleen Stock and Selina Todd , from be bully and hound out of successful university career ? like my hon . friend , I take have strong freedom of expression in our university , and student be expose to a range of view — some of which they might find difficult or disagree with — extremely seriously . that be why it be so important to have a wide - range education . official will ensure that we engage with a wide range of view in this important area as we look at next step , and I would be more than happy to discuss that in more detail with she . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Secretary of State to her place . the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 would have ensure that university in England have the tool they need to deal with interference and threat to freedom of speech and academic freedom , wherever they originate . now that the Government will no long implement that Act , will she clarify her alternative plan to protect academic freedom in the high education sector ? the hon . Gentleman will know that freedom of expression and academic freedom be incredibly important . the Office for Students set out duty , and many of those principle be already enshrine in law . however , I want to ensure that we get this right . I be confident that he would not have want to be in a position where the Act open up the potential for hate speech , include Holocaust denial , to be spread on campus — something that the Minister in the previous Government be unable to rule out . private School closure what information her Department hold on the number of private school that close in England between 11 May 2010 and 5 July 2024 . exclude private special school , around 50 private school close each year . there be a range of reason for closure , include financial viability and departmental action where school be not meet require standard . some 1 , 102 private school close between 11 May 2010 and 5 July 2024 . it be also worth note that the number of pupil in private school increase in 2023 - 24 , and that there have be a net increase of 13 private school over that period . St Joseph ' s preparatory school , a small fee - pay independent school in Stoke - on - Trent , announce that it be close its door at the end of this year after a period of financial viability question . what support will the Department offer the city council and parent in Stoke - on - Trent to ensure that those child can still access first - class education ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and welcome he back to this place . he be a tireless champion for child in his constituency and regularly speak up on local school . I be aware of the situation at St Joseph ' s preparatory school . private school be of course business that be responsible for their own finance , but the Department stand ready to assist . the Government be commit to high and rise standard in school , and I hope that we can work together to achieve that . malvern college , Malvern St James girl ' school , Bredon school and other school in West Worcestershire that offer place to child with special educational need not only play an important role in our education system , but support the local economy . will the Minister state that he do not want to see the closure of any of those important independent school in West Worcestershire ? this government ' s ambition be that all child and young people with SEND receive the right support to succeed in their education as they move into adult life . we be committed to take a community - wide approach , improve inclusivity and expertise in mainstream school , and ensure that special school cater to those with the most complex need . child whose place in private school have be deem necessary by the local authority will not be affect by the tax change . I call the shadow Secretary of State . at the start of the new term , we all wish everybody well for the academic year ahead . what will minister say next September to parent who , because of labour ' s education tax , find that class size be big and more school be full , and that few child be able to get a place in their first - choice school in Bristol , Bury , Salford or Surrey ? I welcome the right hon . member to his place , and I very much look forward to work with he to ensure that every child get the good start in life . the number of child in private school have remain steady despite a 20 % real - term increase in average private school fee since 2010 , and an increase of 55 % since 2003 . we can not predict closure , but we will use indicator such as occupancy to monitor that . my Department work with local authority to help they to fulfil their duty to secure place . apprenticeship : Critical Minerals whether her Department be take step to create degree - level apprenticeship in critical mineral industry . this Government will unleash the green skill we need to make Britain a clean energy superpower and spread sustainable economic growth across the country . business can already benefit from the level 6 mine management degree apprenticeship and we be establish Skills England , which will work across the country and across the Government with employer , local partner , union and other expert to ensure that we have the highly train workforce that England need . in Cornwall , apprenticeship in the critical mineral industry be so important , create great work for the next generation , foster innovation and supercharge our mission for clean energy . will the Secretary of State outline what step be be take to expand our investment in these apprenticeship and meet the grow skill demand in that industry ? my hon . friend make an excellent point about the importance of apprenticeship and skill in create local opportunity and national prosperity . skill England will work with employer and other partner to identify the skill need of the next decade , and ensure that the training need for those skill , include apprenticeship , be accessible through the growth and skill levy . SEND Provision what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the provision of SEND service . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the provision of SEND service . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the provision of SEND service . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the provision of SEND service . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the provision of SEND service . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the provision of SEND service . the Conservatives leave a trail of devastation across education , and nowhere be that clear than in our current special educational need and disability system . we know that , for too many child and family , the system be just not work , but I give my personal commitment to hon . member across the House that the Government will listen to and work with family to deliver reform , improve inclusivity in mainstream school and ensure that special school be able to help those with the most complex need . last week , I visit Expert Citizens in Stoke - on - Trent , where people with live experience of use public service help to inform system redesign . many of my constituent across different council have report issue with SEND transport , which highlight the importance of listen to people with live experience . in one example , a single work mother may need to give up her job because she do not have a car . she do not get SEND transport because she be 0 . 1 mile outside and therefore she can not get her child to school . do the Secretary of State agree that SEND transport need a service rethink — one centre and build on the live experience of the parent and child who use that service ? my hon . friend be right to stress the need to listen to child , family and all those work in the system in order to deliver reform . if she can share some more detail with I , I will happily take a look . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for her answer and to the Minister for School Standards for her response to last week ' s Westminster Hall debate , lead by my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) , on SEND provision in Hertfordshire . as the Minister will recall , there be many heartbreaking experience face by child and young people in Stevenage and across Hertfordshire , where waiting time be much high than the national average . will the Secretary of State therefore consider a fair funding settlement for SEND provision in Hertfordshire when she be next able to do so ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the significant interest in the Westminster Hall debate , and the level of interest today demonstrate the importance of get this issue right . I know from speak to he that he be concerned about the issue . I agree that it be important that there be a fair education funding system that direct funding where it be most need . one aspect of that be the national funding formula and allocate high - need funding . we will take our time to look carefully at whether any change be require , include in Hertfordshire . may I ask my right hon . friend to detail the Department ' s plan to help to solve the recruitment problem for SEND professional , to enable school to deal with education , health and care plan in constituency such as mine , North Somerset ? it be certainly the case that there be a big workforce challenge , and make sure that we have specialist in critical area be a central part of make sure child and young people can access the support they need . our school support staff will play a crucial role in that , which be why Labour will reinstate the school support staff negotiate body . we will make sure that teacher have more training alongside support staff , in order to deliver well support and education for our young people , and this year we be invest over £ 21 million to train 400 more educational psychologist . [ Official Report , 7 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) I welcome the Secretary of State ' s answer . on doorstep , in surgery and over email , family across Basingstoke have tell I countless story of the obstacle they have to go through just to have the bare acknowledgement of their child ' s need , only to go through a similar obstacle course for their child to be assess , and yet again for they to get the help they be legally entitle to . can the Secretary of State offer family in Basingstoke with experience of this fail system some hope that they can expect well in future ? I join my hon . friend in Basingstoke during the general election campaign , so I know that many family in Basingstoke and right across our country be concern about this issue , and I can give he that commitment . member on the conservative Benches may recall that the previous Education Secretary describe the system that she leave behind as one that be " lose - lose - lose " . I agree . we be determined to turn that around , which be why we have already restructure the Department for Education , with much more focus on support for child with SEND as part of our school provision . speech and language support for child with special educational need and disability be clearly not a priority for the previous Government . I have see the damage that that have do to family in my constituency of Ealing Southall : at a recent surgery , one mum tell I that she just want her young son to be able to tell she when he be in pain . what step will the Secretary of State take to ensure that child like those in my constituency receive the speech and language support that they need ? my hon . friend be right to highlight how important it be that all of our child have strong speech and language skill . that be why this Government will roll out early language intervention to make sure that all of our child get support at the early possible point , include extend the Nuffield early language intervention for this academic year , because it be so important that we make a difference when our child be young . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer so far . People in my constituency of Hexham — one of the large constituency in the country — routinely tell I of the struggle they face in enable their child to access the support they need and the education they be entitle to . will the Secretary of State or one of her Ministers meet with I to discuss the challenge of access SEND education in such a rural constituency ? as the first ever Labour MP for Hexham , my hon . friend will be a champion of rural community across the country . I would be more than happy to meet with he — or my hon . friend the Minister for School Standards will meet with he — to discuss this important concern , which I know many member wish to discuss . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer , and for her personal commitment to create a fairer funding system for child with special educational need . in that light , she will forgive I if I mention that the East Riding have the low high - need block allocation of any local authority in England . so many people have be genuinely commit to a fair system in the past . will the Secretary of State set out how she will achieve that ? it be easy to support it in principle , but it be very hard to find a way of deliver it in practice . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question , and will make sure that official engage with he on that point . if there be anything far he would like to share , I will happily look at it . he be right : this be a difficult area , and we need to make sure we get it right . I be determined to deliver a system where all child and young people have every chance and opportunity . particularly when it come to SEND support , we will have to work across the House to get to a much strong and well position for our child and family . what be the Secretary of State go to do about the capacity crisis that be rapidly emerge as ten of thousand of child be be force out of independent school by this Government ' s deeply misguided vat policy ? I have a list of 20 school in Buckinghamshire with no place whatsoever , and Bristol city council be consider buy place from an independent school to put back in that school , at taxpayer ' expense , a child who recently leave that school at the parent ' expense . we be elect on a manifesto of drive high and rise standard in our state school . the public back our policy . we think it be right that we prioritise investment in our state school where the vast majority of our child go to school , include the vast majority of child in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . I suggest that he spend a bit more time think about their interest . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to improve the provision of SEND service in school , but do she recognise that many ordinary , hard - work family make extraordinary effort to find provision ahead of a formal assessment in independent school as well ? will she commit to make an assessment of what level of provision currently exist within the independent sector to satisfy special educational need , because it will be material to the solution she will need to develop ? as the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , have set out , we will make sure that , where child have an education , health and care plan , the vat on fee policy change will not affect those child . I recognise the point the right hon . member make and I believe that parent have a right to choose where their child go to school , but the vast majority of parent in our country who send their child to state school be also ambitious and aspirational for their child . Maria , in my constituency , have a son who be in a specialist placement , and in October last year that school say it could no long meet his need . since then , he have not be back in full - time education , while another headteacher keep tell I that special need provision in Shropshire be decade behind elsewhere in the country . if the Secretary of State aspire for all child in the country to have their special need meet , how be she go to ensure that happen in place that be struggle so much with funding , such as Shropshire ? I recognise the challenge the hon . Lady set out , and part of it be make sure that our mainstream school be well able to cater for child with a wide range of need . I be very sorry to hear about the experience of her constituent , and I be sure my hon . friend the Minister for School Standards will be happy to meet she or to look into that far to see if any action can be take to support the family . in Leicestershire , special educational need have be a real problem that I have see in my constituency . the last Government make it one of the trailblazer to come together and trial some of the new thing that could be do in special educational need , and we start to see some progress in that . will the Secretary of State meet I and the other Leicestershire mps to discuss how we can take that forward , so we can get well provision for Hinckley and Bosworth and for Leicestershire ? the hon . Gentleman be right to draw attention to any emerge evidence that show new way of do thing . as a new government , we be keen to do precisely what he describe to make sure , particularly when it come to a well join - up between health and education , that we see fast improvement . I would be happy to meet he and Leicestershire colleague , although my hon . friend the Minister might be able to step in . too many Eastbourne parent , my mum include , be force to relentlessly fight to get their child into the school that can well meet their child ' s special educational need . that be so often down to a lack of funding , so will the Secretary of State commit to meet Eastbourne family , Eastbourne school leader and I to hear about the SEND landscape locally , and provide the funding that local child with special educational need need and deserve ? the hon . member be right in his characterisation of a system that be adversarial and where so many parent have to fight to get a good education and support for their child . I would be happy to do so , or perhaps my hon . friend the Minister might take that meeting . I call the shadow Minister . it be in response to grow demand that the last Conservative Government increase the high - need budget to £ 10 . 5 billion and put in place a statutory override so that SEND - relate deficit do not overwhelm council budget . with that set to expire in 2026 , what be the Secretary of State ' s message to local authority : be she push the Chancellor to extend that protection or for deficit to be write off ? I be genuinely surprised that the hon . Gentleman think that question be a source of strength . it represent significant failure over 14 year that we have end up in such a desperate position face our council . we will of course look closely at all of this but , after 14 year when he will have hear that family have be terribly let down by the last Government , a period of reflection on his part might be in hand . student Mental Health what step her Department be take to support the mental health and wellbeing of student . this government be break down barrier to opportunity by provide young people with the mental health support they need . the Office for Students be provide university with £ 15 million this year to improve their mental health and wellbeing support . our further education student support champion , Polly Harrow , be drive a strategic approach to support mental health for further education student . I thank the Minister for her answer . the Children ' s Society have find that british 15 - year - old be the unhappy in Europe , and school absence be at record level , often due to poor mental health or inadequate support for special educational need . early intervention be key to tackle mental health issue among our child . do the Minister agree that , by put a mental health professional into every primary and secondary school , we could help end the youth mental health crisis ? I thank the hon . member for her question and sincere concern about the mental health of child and young people . this Government be commit to improve mental health and wellbeing support for all child and young people . it be vital that the right support be available to every young person who need it . that be why we will provide access to specialist mental health provision professional in every school . as I have already mention in the House a number of time , I be a former teacher , I be married to a current teacher and most of my friend be teacher — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] she ' ll be pleased with that . the mental health of teacher after the last 14 year be at rock bottom . what step will the Department take to support not just the mental health and wellbeing of our student , which be really important , but the mental health and wellbeing of our teacher ? I thank my hon . friend for make it extremely clear that he be a teacher and have teacher within his network . he be right to mention the welfare and wellbeing of professional and of teacher . I would like to offer he a meeting with an Education Minister to discuss that far . every year in the UK , hundred of teenager take their own life — child as young as 12 , like Riley Townsend in the constituency of Ashfield , who take his own life just a few week ago because of mental health problem . what more can we do to support our young people through the social care and education system to stop this epidemic ? I thank the hon . member for highlight that very serious concern . student suicide be serious and a concern matter . in the academic year end 2020 , the suicide rate for high education student in England and Wales be low than in the general population of the same age group . however , every suicide be tragic and suicide expert Sir Louis Appleby be oversee the national review of high education suicide to learn more to prevent suicide . it have see excellent engagement from the sector and will report on that . last year , there be a 38 % increase in the number of CAMHS referral in Birmingham , while also a sharp fall in the number of young people see within six month of a referral . do the Minister agree that we need much more preventive support in school , and close work between education and health body ? my hon . friend be right . this Government have commit to recruit 8 , 500 additional staff across child and adult NHS mental health service . that will help to reduce delay , provide fast treatment and ease pressure on busy mental health service . family hub be also crucial to provide that . I call the shadow Minister . the previous Conservative Government introduce mental health support team in school , and the impact of the covid - 19 pandemic be still be feel by student , particularly regard mental health . will the Secretary of State commit to continue those mental health support team to ensure that student can access the mental health care that they need ? I thank the shadow Minister for his question . as I have already outline , this Government be commit to improve the mental health and wellbeing of child and young people , and we will provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school . teacher Recruitment what step she be take to recruit more teacher . what step she be take to recruit more teacher . as a first step in our mission to break down barrier to opportunity , we will recruit 6 , 500 additional teacher . we have kickstarte the recruitment campaign , and make a 5 . 5 % pay award , reset the relationship with the education workforce . we will re - establish teaching as an attractive expert profession after year of damage under the previous Government . this Government have promise change in education , and make a commitment to raise school standard and increase teacher number after 14 year of Tory neglect . the Scottish National party ' s 17 year in power have lead to fall standard , under - resource school and a grow attainment gap between the rich and the rest . do the Minister agree that it be time for change , give the Scottish National party ' s dismal record on education in Scotland ? break down barrier to opportunity be a key mission for this Government and the Scottish Labour party . the SNP have see attainment gap widen and child poverty soar , but we will transform our education system so that all young people get the opportunity that they deserve , by drive high and rise standard across our education system . that be the change that this Labour Government will deliver . many teacher in my constituency welcome the drive to recruit more teacher , but they also want the Government to recognise the pressure on those already in the profession . what step will the Department take to improve teacher retention in constituency such as Penrith and Solway ? I want teacher to not only remain in the profession , but to thrive in it . that be why we be listen and act on feedback . the Department , alongside school leader , have develop a workload reduction toolkit and the education staff wellbee charter . we will deliver a range of measure to make teach a well value and respected profession . I recently visit Herefordshire , Ludlow and North Shropshire college , which provide excellent further education opportunity for student in my constituency . however , there be not parity of funding for teacher in the fe sector and those in the school sector , mean that post - 16 education be now well fund for those pursue academic course than for those pursue vocational course . will the Secretary of State roll out the 5 . 5 % pay rise to teacher in the FE sector also , so that there be no increase in inequality between academic and vocational opportunity ? we accept the School Teachers Review Body ' s recommendation of a 5 . 5 % award for teacher and leader in maintain school in England from September . it be a substantial award that recognise the hard work of those in our teaching profession . we recognise the challenge in the FE sector also and the issue that the hon . Lady outline . we will continue to keep the matter under review , because we want to ensure that every child have the good opportunity , whether that be in our school system or in our fe sector . the new Government ' s focus on the serious recruitment and retention crisis be welcome . however , as we have hear , the recent pay announcement overlook teacher who work in college , who already face a pay gap of more than £ 9 , 000 . we have twice the proportion of student from disadvantaged background in our college as in school sixth form , so the recruitment issue be even more pressing in our college . why be it that teacher of 16 - year - old in school deserve a pay rise , but teacher of 16 - year - old in college do not ? we recognise the challenge that the hon . Lady set out . we be face an incredibly challenging fiscal position . from the previous Government , we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole to make up . this be about the opportunity of young people in this country , and we take the issue that she outline incredibly seriously . we will continue to do what we can within the fiscal envelope that we have , and within the system that we have inherit . that be why we honour the recommendation of the STRB review , and we will continue to do what we can in FE . child in Care : educational Outcomes what step she be take to help improve educational outcome for ( a ) child in social care and ( b ) other care - experience young people . I thank my hon . friend for all the work that she have do in stand up for child in social care in recent year . we will champion the ambition of all child and ensure that background be no barrier to success . in our child ' s wellbee Bill , we will set out our plan to raise standard for all child in social care and will ensure that they be support to thrive . the drop - out rate from university for care - experienced student be 38 % , compare with just 6 % for non - care - experienced young people . as thousand of student be arrive at university for the first time this week , what step be the Minister take to ensure that there be a consistent package of support for care - experienced student at every university to help they overcome the barrier that they too often face , and to ensure that university be a place where they feel welcome and can thrive ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and the passion with which it be deliver . I recently speak to member of a child and young people ' s advisory group , who tell I about some of the challenge they face at university . in some case , they have not even be inform about the option of university , which be quite shocking . we be commit to provide the good university experience for care leaver . access to high education should be base on ability and attainment , not background , but too many child across our country do not get the chance to succeed . the previous Government could have do much more . we will act to address the persistent gap when it come to access and positive outcome for care - experienced young people . we have issue guidance to university on support care - experience young people and introduce statutory financial support , include a £ 2 , 000 bursary , but after the last 14 year , there be still so much more to do . child ' s Wellbeing Bill when she plan to bring forward the child ' s wellbee Bill . the child ' s wellbee Bill will be introduce as soon as parliamentary time allow . the Bill aim to put child and their wellbeing at the centre of the education and child ' s social care system , and to ensure that every child have a fulfil childhood , enable they to succeed and thrive . I know from visit school in my Walton constituency that some of the most difficult challenge that teacher face often come from the difficult socioeconomic challenge of the area spill over into school , so I welcome the Government ' s focus on child ' s wellbee . most important to my constituent will be the roll - out of free breakfast club . could the Minister tell I a little bit about how and when they will be roll out ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . breakfast club be about more than just food : they provide opportunity for child to play , to learn and to socialise at the start of the school day . the Government be give parent more choice in childcare , and be support family with the cost of living crisis . our plan for breakfast club will remove barrier to opportunity by ensure that every child of primary school age , no matter their circumstance , be well prepared for school . topical Questions we be move on to topical ; the question will be short , and the ministerial response will be snappy . if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as we start the new academic year , I want to say thank you to all staff work across education , and to wish all learner the good for the year ahead . it will be the mission of this new Government to break down barrier to opportunity , so that where a person be from do not determine what they can go on to achieve , and so that every child have the good start in life . we launch our mission against a backdrop of many inherit challenge : a childcare pledge without a plan for delivery ; a crumble school estate ; a school attendance crisis ; large attainment gap ; and fall apprenticeship start and training opportunity . I be determined to turn this around . we will drive high and rise standard across education , from early year right through to adult learning . across the Macclesfield area , we have fantastic school , but the legacy of 14 year of conservative mismanagement mean that they have some of the low funding in the country . will Ministers meet I to discuss how we can turn the situation about and fund our school properly ? I know that my hon . friend care deeply about the life chance of child in Macclesfield and across Cheshire East . I would be happy to meet he to discuss the matter far . the opposition share the Secretary of State ' s good wish to all for the new term and the new year , but do she recall that last time Labour be in office , not only do England tumble down the world education ranking , but we end up as the only country in the developed world where the literacy and numeracy of recent school leaver be bad than that of the generation who be about to retire ? if she continue to follow the same fail Labour approach , do she expect a different result this time ? the right hon . Gentleman , as a former Minister in the Department , know all too well that he and other be caution about how they should be use datum . when we look at the raw number , we see that under the last Conservative Government , read standard be go down , as be standard in math and science . one in four child do not reach the require standard at the end of primary school , and one in five young people be persistently absent from our school . we will drive high and rise standard right across academic subject , but we will also ensure that all our child and young people have a range of opportunity in music , sport , art and drama , not just those with parent who can afford it . as the new school year begin , far too many student in my constituency have not yet be able to secure a school place of their choice . do my hon . friend agree that the school allocation policy need a desperate overhaul ? many people believe that it be not fit for purpose . could she tell the House what step the Government be take to address this extremely important issue ? we recognise the challenge that my hon . friend raise , which be why the Government will introduce change , so that state - fund school can be ask to co - operate with local authority on admission and place planning . local authority have a responsibility to allocate all applicant a school place on national offer day . if child in his area be still without place , I would be happy to meet he , and to support he in resolve those issue . disadvantaged pupil between 16 and 19 be likely to be up to four grade behind their more affluent peer . we know that funding drop by about a third at 16 , yet 16 - to - 19 tuition be axe in July , and the pupil premium have never apply to that age group . if the Secretary of State be serious about smash the glass ceiling , will she consider increase funding target at this group ? I share the hon . Lady ' s concern about make sure that we target funding in the most effective way . that be why I have say that my no . 1 priority be ensure that we support child and young people at the early possible point , and give a real commitment around early education and childcare , because that be the single big way to ensure that our child arrive at school really well prepared and to stop those gap open up as child progress through education . the early year sector face significant challenge in deliver the roll - out of the expand childcare offer promise by the last government . the sector consistently cite the inability to recruit and retain staff as the big difficulty . can the Minister confirm when the Government plan to publish the promise workforce strategy for the early year , and what opportunity there will be for the sector to have its say ? I thank my hon . friend for all her hard work while in opposition on these important issue . this Government see early education as more than just childcare ; it be central to our mission to give every child the good start in life . we recognise the inherit workforce challenge , in both recruitment and retention . in the come week and month , this Government will set out plan for reform , begin with a complete reset with the sector , so that the workforce feel support and value . as be allude to by my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , child with special educational need and disability in some urban local authority receive three time more funding than they do in the East Riding of Yorkshire . will the Secretary of State or her Minister meet I and East Riding colleague , so that we can secure a fairer future for our local child ? the Secretary of State have set out extensive response to extensive question on the inherit challenge in the SEND system . we recognise the issue that the hon . Gentleman raise , and will be happy to meet he and his colleague around his local authority area to discuss this far . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the Shrewsbury Colleges Group in my constituency on yet another excellent round of result this summer , with a - level pass rate at over 98 % and 210 vocational student achieve a triple distinction ? it be a superb institution in our rural area , work to drive up engagement and standard for vocational qualification , which be the bedrock of our industrial strategy and central to the Government ' s mission to break down the barrier to opportunity . will she join I in celebrate its success , and assure it that it have parity of esteem with its academic school counterpart , and will she perhaps book a visit ? further education be front and centre of unlock opportunity . I join my hon . friend in congratulate the Shrewsbury Colleges Group on its excellent result . school in Devon be miss out on £ 23 . 5 million a year due to the national funding formula — the equivalent of 450 full - time teacher across the county . will the Minister meet I to discuss how Devon ' s school child be miss out , particularly those live in the most deprive area ? I recognise the concern the hon . Lady raise . the Government intend to take time to consider the various funding formula the Department and local authority currently use to allocate funding for school . it be really important that we have a fair education funding system that direct funding to where it be need , and I would be happy to meet she to discuss the particular challenge in her area . the Steiner school in my constituency , with its nurturing and therapeutic pedagogy , be most challenge by the vat policy , yet it enable many child who have anxiety or who would otherwise not be in education to access school . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss my report on the impact of the vat policy and find way to keep this school open and the child in education ? we expect that private school will want to continue to demonstrate wide public benefit through the provision of mean - test bursary and partnership with state - fund school after the change be make . as this be a taxation matter , his Majesty ' s Treasury be lead the implementation of the policy . it publish a technical note about the propose change on 29 July and will confirm its plan at Budget . I encourage all private school to engage with that process , and I would happily meet my hon . friend to discuss her report . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be still a South Gloucestershire councillor . as last Thursday ' s pack debate show , child with SEND be be let down . many local authority be currently lock into safety valve agreement with the Department for Education , which be put into place pre - pandemic and contain unrealistic target that no long reflect the situation on the ground . will the Secretary of State review those agreement , and meet I and local leader to discuss the situation in South Gloucestershire ? the hon . Lady raise a concern that many have raise . she will have see the level of concern at the special educational need inheritance that this Government have take on . current safety valve agreement will continue to operate , as they be agree , but we will look at their use go forward . I would be happy to meet she to discuss the particular challenge in her area . may I take this opportunity to welcome my right hon . friend to her place , and to welcome student across Stratford and Bow back to school as they start their new term ? the Secretary of State understand as well as I do the struggle some parent have in get their child back to school , especially those with mental health and special educational need . will she outline what step she be take to ensure that school really be the good place for every child ? I recognise the important point that my hon . friend raise . many parent be do everything they can , often in very challenging circumstance , to support their child into school . for my part , I can assure she that this Government will do everything we can to make sure child find welcome , safe environment at school , with well mental health support , breakfast club in our primary school , a broad , rich curriculum , and more support around SEND in mainstream setting . there be report in the press a couple of week ago that the Secretary of State take meeting with teach union who make the argument that multiplication time table should be take off the national curriculum . give our stratospheric success in PISA — programme for international student assessment — numeracy rating , thank to change introduce by the Conservative Government , can she give we a 100 % cast - iron guarantee that she will not dumb down the curriculum in this country and will not take time table off the national curriculum ? I would caution the hon . Gentleman about believe everything he read in the press . time table be an important part of our system . we will drive high and rise standard from Government . rather than pick pointless fight and avoidable industrial action , what he will see from this Government be a different relationship , as we work in partnership with teacher , school leader and support staff to deliver well life chance for all of our child . the last set of PISA result under the Conservative Government show standard in England ' s school go backwards : backwards in reading — — maybe Conservative Members should listen — backwards in math and backwards in science . do my right hon . friend agree that that be far from a record to be proud of ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . conservative Members do not like it , but it be absolutely true . I would add that , when it come to the concern my hon . friend raise , we see stark attainment gap in the difference between what our poor and more affluent child be able to achieve . that blight the life chance of child in his constituency of Gateshead . we be determined to make progress on that , unlike the previous Government . I congratulate the Secretary of State and her team , and welcome they to their place . in my constituency , child be be unenrolle after 20 day of absence , even when there be a valid and compassionate reason for their leave . will the Secretary of State commit herself to review this harmful and punitive rule , which be leave child in my constituency without a school for many month , and will she take step to make the necessary change to protect those child and their right to an education ? I be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss the point that he have raise . attendance and off - roll be issue that the Government take very seriously , and we will set out more policy on they in due course . the last Government promise to publish a register of child who be not in school . I welcome the measure take by this government , but can the Minister update I on the next step towards publication of the register ? this government have no time to waste if we be to fix the foundation of our country after 14 year of decline . we will legislate for the register through the child ' s wellbee Bill , which will be introduce as soon as parliamentary time allow , and which will support the Government ' s work to ensure that every child have the good start in life . can the Minister confirm that the funding announce on 9 May by the Conservative Government for a brand - new SEND school in the county of Buckinghamshire be in no way , shape or form " under review " , and that we will get that new school ? ensure that school and college have the resource and building that they need be a key part of our mission to break down barrier to opportunity and give every young person the good start in life . we be committed to improve the condition of the estate through the Department ' s annual funding , continue the school rebuilding programme and fix the problem cause by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . at the start of the new school year , may I wish all teacher , school staff and child in my constituency the very good for the year ahead ? do my hon . friend agree that , as part of the curriculum review , which I warmly welcome and look forward to , we need an education system and curriculum — particularly in primary school — with much more focus on learn through play , on oracy , and on multisensory movement and the recording of learning ? that would benefit not just child with SEND , but all pupil . the curriculum assessment review , lead by expert , will focus on the evidence — what we know from here and abroad about how we can well help child of all age and ability to learn , and that include child with special educational need . I be sure that those conduct the review will want to investigate different approach to the primary curriculum , include those mention by my hon . friend , but I would not want to pre - empt the review ' s conclusion and recommendation . rise — order . that conclude education question . I be sorry that I could not fit everyone in ; well luck next time . Government Policy on Health it be always nice to see the right hon . Gentleman , but I be expect to see the actual Secretary of State respond to this question . perhaps he be at a business meeting with health firm — order . may I ask the shadow Secretary of State just to pose the question ? the Minister will respond , and then the shadow Secretary of State will get she two minute after that . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if he will make a statement on the involvement of people with no formal appointment in the development of Government policy on health . I apologise to the House , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be more used to answer , but believe you I , I be look forward to the question . and I be committed to make sure that the right hon . Lady be there , ask the question , for a very , very long time . unlike our predecessor , this government can not get enough of expert . we work with a wide range of stakeholder in develop policy , because that go to the heart of our approach to mission - drive government . but I think the shadow Secretary of State be refer specifically to the right honourable Alan Milburn , so let I address he specifically . I walk into the Department of Health and Social Care on 5 July to be confront with the bad crisis in the history of the national health service : waiting list at 7 . 6 million , more than a million patient a month wait four week for a GP appointment — if they could get one at all — the junior doctor still in dispute and on strike , and dental desert across huge part of our country , where people can not get an NHS dentist for love nor money . this Government be honest about the scale of the crisis and serious about fix it , which mean that we need the good available advice — it be all hand on deck to fix the mess that the previous Government leave . if a single patient wait long for treatment than they need because I have fail to ask for the most expert advice around , I would consider that a betrayal of patient ' interest . I decide whom I hear from in meeting , I decide whose advice I seek , and I decide what to share with they . I also welcome challenge , alternative perspective and experience . the right honourable Alan Milburn be a former Member of this House , a member of the Privy Council and a former Health Secretary . he do not have a pass to the Department and , at every departmental meeting he have attend , he have be present at the request of Ministers . during Alan ' s time in office , he give patient the choice over where they be treat and who treat they , as well as make sure that the NHS be properly transparent , so that all patient be able to make an informed choice — a basic right that we expect in all other walk of life , but which only the wealthy and well connect be able to exercise in healthcare until Alan change it . he give patient access to the fast , most effective treatment available on NHS term , so that fast treatment be no long just for those who could afford private healthcare . he make the tough reform that drive well performance across the NHS and , along with every other Labour Health Secretary , deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in the history of the NHS . that be his record and labour ' s record , and it be the kind of experience that I want around the table as we write the reform agenda that will lift the NHS out of the bad crisis in its history , get it back on its foot , and make it fit for the future once again . I fear that the right hon . Gentleman be betray his inexperience . it be a shame that he need all that help and experience ; the rest of we have just get on with the job . the Department of Health and Social Care manage incredibly sensitive information , range from the development of healthcare policy to the handling of market - sensitive information concern vaccine and medication , and the rule regard patient confidentiality . it have emerge that Mr Milburn , a former labour politician , have receive more than £ 8 million from his personal consultancy firm since 2016 . he advise one of the large provider of residential care for old people , and be apparently a senior adviser on health for a major consultancy firm . [ interruption . ] a Member sit opposite say , " so what ? " give the risk of conflict of interest — that , rather than the right hon . Gentleman ' s inexperience , be the point of this UQ — have Mr Milburn declare his business interest to the Department ? can the right hon . Gentleman reassure the House on how such conflict be be manage , so that we can get a sense of the scale of this open - door policy and Mr Milburn ' s access ? could the right hon . Gentleman tell we how many meeting Mr Milburn have attend ? how many be with NHS England ? how many be conduct without ministerial presence ? what sensitive information have Mr Milburn be give access to ? do it include information concern the sale of patient information to pharmaceutical company ? have Mr Milburn see internal DHSC or NHSE document regard the pricing of medicine and vaccination , and other market - sensitive information ? this be all information that come across the right hon . Gentleman ' s desk , and there be no formal record for understand what Mr Milburn have see . if the right hon . Gentleman use , as he have do just now , the excuse that this be all okay because Mr Milburn be a former Secretary of State and a Privy Counsellor , could the right hon . Gentleman set out where in the ministerial code or the civil service code such an exemption exist for unrecorded access to information by member of the public ? I hope the Secretary of State will also confirm his list of other adviser , their commercial interest and any other member of the public attend meeting that be of a deeply sensitive nature , so that we get a sense of just how far this go . this be just more evidence of cronyism at the heart of this new Labour Government . follow recent press report that a Labour party worker have be parachute into a civil service role in the Department through a closed recruitment process , will the Secretary of State finally come clean to the House and be transparent about who be run his Department and shape policy for he ? the right hon . Lady want to compare experience . it take I three week to agree a deal with junior doctor — she have not even meet they since March — and in the two and a half year that I be the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , she be the fifth and among the bad . do it not just tell we everything we need to know about the Conservatives ' priority ? she do not ask I what we be do to cut waiting list . she do not ask about the action we take to end strike . she do not ask about the action that have be take to hire a thousand gps , who she leave to graduate into unemployment . she have not ask I about the news on the front page of the Daily Telegraph that , on their watch , 50 year of health progress be in decline . and funnily enough , there be nothing on the news from the Observer this weekend that the NHS be hit hard than any other health service by the pandemic because it be uniquely expose by a decade of conservative neglect . have break the NHS , all they be interested in now be try to tie this Government ' s hand behand our back to stop we clean up their mess . what the right hon . Lady be imply in this question be that , as Health Secretary , she never seek the advice of people who do not work in her Department , which would explain quite a lot actually . I feel sorry for she , because when I need advice , I can call on any number of Labour Health Secretaries who help deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . but she never have that luxury , because every single one of her conservative predecessor leave NHS waiting list high than where they find they — except , of course , for Th é r è se Coffey , who be outlast by a lettuce . in fact , it say a lot about the modern conservative party ' s anti - reform instinct that the right hon . Lady be so opposed to Alan Milburn . they use to hug he close when they be cosplaye as new Labour . Andrew Lansley even ask whether Alan Milburn would chair the new clinical commissioning board that his top - down reorganisation create , although Alan sensibly turn he down and label the reorganisation " the big car crash " in the history of the NHS , which just go to prove that Alan Milburn have sound judgment and be worth listen to . but if the right hon . Lady want to lead with her chin and talk cronyism , let we talk cronyism . why do we not talk about Owen Paterson lobby Health Ministers on behalf of Randox ? the conservative care so much about cronyism that they welcome Lord Cameron back with open arm follow his pay lobbying for Greensill . for reason of ongoing court case , let we not even get into Baroness Mone and the £ 200 million contract for personal protective equipment . where be the right hon . Lady during those sorry episode ? cheer on that government and preside over a record of abysmal failure that have put they on the other side of the Chamber . this Government be have to rebuild not only the public service that the Conservatives break and the public finance they raid , but the trust in politic that they destroy . we will put politic back into the service of work people and rebuild all three . clearly , we will have to do it without the support of the conservative party ' s one - nation tradition , who be not even run and have abandon their flag . it be clear that the Conservatives have not learn a thing from the defeat they be subject to on 4 July , and we will get on with the business of clear up their mess . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Secretary of State have obviously decide that attack be the good form of defence , but the operation of the House will collapse if he decline to answer any question about a very serious matter of public concern . can we seek your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , on whether he be conduct himself appropriately in the House ? we be seek transparency on a matter of probity , and he have a duty to answer the House , not least under the ministerial code . the urgent question have just start , so there will be ample opportunity to continue to hold to account the Secretary of State , who no doubt believe that his answer be respond to the UQ . we have some time to go , so if Members bob , I will endeavour to ensure that they be call to do so . the sheer brass neck of the Conservatives to turn up on the very day that Transparency International UK publish its report show that £ 15 billion of contract be red - flagged during the covid epidemic — [ interruption . ] I be not read . those contract have be red - flagged and be worthy of further investigation , and £ 500 million of they be give to company that have not even last 100 day . should the Conservatives not have take that into consideration before come here with this urgent question ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . frankly , every single contribution from the Opposition Dispatch Box should begin with a grovel apology for the way they conduct themselves in government , but they will not apologise : they have learn nothing and they show no humility . to my hon . friend ' s point , when it come to covid corruption and crony contract , the message from the Chancellor be clear . we want our money back and the covid commissioner be come to get it . I call the Liberal Democrat Front - Bench spokesperson , Sarah Olney . the Liberal Democrats find it deeply ironic that the shadow Health Secretary have raise this question on the involvement of people with no formal appointment in the development of Government policy . be they forget their record in government ? perhaps we should remind everyone that , under the Conservatives , it be their friend that benefit from large contract to supply the Government during the covid pandemic . the result be that , just today , as the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) have already highlight , Transparency International UK have reveal multiple red flag in more than 130 covid contract total over £ 15 . 3 billion . with the Conservatives out of power , we have the opportunity to clean up our politic , so will the Secretary of State update the House on whether the Prime Minister plan to appoint his own ethic adviser or whether Sir Laurie Magnus will remain in the post ? will the ethic adviser be empower to initiate their own investigation and publish their own report ? I be grateful to the hon . member for her serious contribution . she be right to say that transparency matter . that be why meeting in my Department , and their attendee , will be publish in the right and proper way on a quarterly basis . it be also right to draw a distinction between those area of business and meeting in the Department that be about generate idea and policy discussion , and those that be about take government decision . it be right that people from outside government come into the Department for Health and Social Care , or any Department , to lend their expertise and share their view , and it be right that minister make decision absent of those outsider . that be the distinction I would draw . the hon . member raise a specific point about the Prime Minister ' s ethic adviser . this be a Prime Minister who do take ethic seriously and will not behave in the way that his conservative predecessor do . as for individual , that be a decision for the Prime Minister , but I will ensure that the hon . member get a more fulsome reply . I have be a surgeon for 28 year . in the first 14 year , we have a Labour Government and we see the waiting list more or less disappear , such that by 2010 , a patient come to see I in the clinic would be offer an operation . in the second 14 year , we have see record waiting list . I welcome the advice of Mr Alan Milburn , one of the most successful Secretaries of State and one of the architect of the fall in the waiting list , and I support the Secretary of State in this . I be grateful to my hon . friend and I be delighted to see he here , bring his experience to the House , share it with the nation , stand up for his constituent and be part of the team that will do what the last Labour Government do , which be to ensure that our NHS be back on its foot and fit for the future . notwithstanding the Secretary of State ' s bluster , he must appreciate that , give Mr Milburn ' s involvement in the private healthcare sector , his direct access to the Secretary of State may have confer a competitive advantage . what do the Secretary of State say to those company who compete with Mr Milburn ' s company about the access that he have have to the Secretary of State ? how can we in the House be reassure about the kind of information that Mr Milburn have be able to access and what , if any , advantage that might have confer upon he ? with the way that Conservative Members be carry on , and with the smear and innuendo they be apply , I be surprised that Alan Milburn be not pay they a marketing commission . the right hon . Gentleman make out that Alan Milburn have come into the Department and be make all the decision . if he be up to what they be suggest , I could not think of well word - of - mouth publicity . there be a clear distinction between invite people with a wide range of experience and perspective into the Department to have policy debate and to generate idea , and have meeting that be about transact Government business . I can assure the right hon . Gentleman and the House that nothing commercially sensitive have be share with Alan Milburn , and I be genuinely astonish that Conservative Members think it be inappropriate for a Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to seek view , input and advice from their predecessor . in fact , I wonder how one of my conservative predecessor , who be come in to see I soon , will feel about their objection . in October 2023 , when I phone my NHS dentist to get an appointment for my child , the next available appointment be in June 2024 . [ interruption . ] when June 2024 roll around , they cancel the appointment . the next available appointment be April 2025 . give my right hon . friend ' s disgraceful inheritance , do he think the conservative party should spend a little more time reflect on its record and a little less time ask pointless question ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . let the record reflect that , when he be raise the crisis that be leave people in Hartlepool without access to NHS dentistry , Conservative Members be shout , " what about Alan Milburn ? " that say everything about their priority , everything about their lack of remorse and contrition , and everything about why they should stay in opposition for a very long time while we sort out the state of NHS dentistry in Hartlepool and across the country . how legitimate be it for the House of Commons to ask about external people come into Departments and potential conflict of interest ? in case like Alan Milburn ' s , or that of a former Conservative Secretary of State , how do the Department identify and manage conflict of interest ? it be entirely legitimate to ask question , and it be also entirely legitimate for Government Departments to invite people with a wide range of experience and insight to advise on policy debate and discussion . that happen all the time . where do we draw the line ? do we have to send compliance form to Cancer Research UK before it come in to talk about how we tackle cancer ? do we have to send declaration of interest form to patient who want to discuss awful case they have experience ? frankly , I find this pantomime astonishing . I be surprised that the shadow Secretary of State think this be such a priority that she should raise it on the Floor of the House rather than NHS waiting list , ambulance response time , GP access or the state of social care . it be clear that the Conservatives have not learn why they be in opposition . I congratulate my right hon . friend on take advice from his predecessor . as someone who work as a senior civil servant in the Department under Alan Milburn , I would like to echo my right hon . friend ' s comment about what a fantastic Secretary of State he be and speak to his record in that position . I also work as a civil servant under the coalition Government . will the Secretary of State also be seek advice from Andy Burnham who , as Secretary of State when Labour last left office , leave record low waiting time and high public satisfaction ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . how fortunate we be to be able to turn to every live former Labour Health Secretary , from Alan Milburn to Andy Burnham , and in every single one of those case be able to draw on people whose record of delivery lead to the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . I can confirm to my hon . friend that , both in opposition and in government , I have be talk to the Mayor of Greater Manchester . he be do some brilliant work on prevention . I be really look forward to work with all our metro mayor to tackle health inequality across the country and to improve the integration of health and care service across the land . I know it will be a novelty for the Secretary of State actually to answer a question during this urgent question , but maybe he will do the House a favour by answer this very simple question with a yes or no . he say that no pass be give to Alan Milburn , so will he guarantee that no confidential document that could have be use for commercial purpose be access or leave his Department ? will he take responsibility if any document or datum discuss at ministerial meeting with Alan Milburn leave the Department — yes or no ? yes . fix and get our NHS back on its foot should be a national mission , and everybody should be able to play their part in that . will the Secretary of State confirm whether any former Conservative Ministers have put themselves forward to try to fix the mess that the party now in opposition create over the last 14 year ? this be the extraordinary thing : notwithstanding the public job application of a former Conservative Secretary of State , which do not meet the bar , I have be approach by former Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care who serve in the Conservative Government who , in a spirit of public service , have want either to do work for the Labour Government on issue that they care about , or have seek to share their experience — the high or , indeed , the many low — of be in government . that be a totally legitimate thing to do . I suspect that , if I rang round all my labour predecessor , I would find that the Conservative Government try desperately hard to get they to work for they , because , as I say , the challenge for Conservative Health Secretaries be that they do not have any successful conservative predecessor to turn to . I share the Secretary of State ' s frustration and understanding of the brass neck of the Tories on this point and I do not doubt the expertise of Alan Milburn , but legitimate question have be ask about conflict of interest . what safeguard be be impose or consider to address the appearance of conflict of interest ? it be absolutely right that people appoint to role in public life declare their conflict of interest so that they can be assess when take decision or exercise power to ensure that they be do so in a way that manage those conflict of interest and no conflict arise . Alan Milburn do not , at this stage , have a role in the Department of Health and Social Care . many people have come into the Department for meeting in the past eight week . we do not ask they all to declare their interest . I know there be more red tape now in health and social care than when we leave office , but this Government want to reduce that not increase it . the conservative party appoint a party donor , Wol Kolade , who want to change how the NHS be fund , to the board of NHS England . in January , the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) hold a meeting with his private equity firm , Livingbridge , less than one month after he give her party £ 50 , 000 , so be it not the shadow Health Secretary who ought to be answer question about cronyism ? it be not for I , thankfully , to answer for the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care ; it be just my responsibility to clean up her mess . will the Secretary of State please illuminate the House about any conflict of interest concern the gentleman in question ? do he head into the ministerial floor or access the Department ? many of we want our constituent to access health service and GP appointment . do the right honourable gentleman , who be the Secretary of State ' s friend from the old day and with whom he have work with previously , have a day pass or a departmental pass ? beyond the bluster , can the Secretary of State assure hon . member that there be no conflict of interest ? my right honourable friend , Alan Milburn , do not have a role in the Department . he do not have a pass to the Department . I be ask whether he have access the ministerial floor . I do not know where the Conservatives hold their meeting , but I tend to hold they in my office on the ministerial floor . across Cramlington and Killingworth , I have hear countless story — heartbreaking story — of resident ’ experience of the NHS . they talk about the staggering length of waiting list , access to GPs and access to dentist . do the Secretary of State agree that , rather than focus on who he might have once have a conversation with , the Conservatives would do well support the Labour Government in clean up the mess they leave behind , which my resident live with every single day ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be because of the way that she champion her constituency and her community that she be send to this place to stand up for their interest . it will not be lose on her constituent or anyone else in the country that , with our national health service in the state that it be in and with the appalling headline that we have be read in recent day , the Opposition have absolutely nothing to say about the responsibility that they bear for the crisis or what they would do to fix it . they have the wrong priority , but , fortunately , the country have the right government . how many meeting have Alan Milburn have in the Department ? will the Secretary of State place a list of all those meeting in the House of Commons Library ? know that the former Secretary of State have extensive financial interest in healthcare , do the Secretary of State ask he to declare those interest and publish they ? first , my right honourable friend , Alan Milburn , do not have a role in the Department . secondly , of course we will publish , in the routine way that we do , detail of meeting hold in the Department and who attend they . I gently suggest that if the hon . Member have not make his way there already , there be plenty more interesting thing to read in the House of Commons Library . I think Opposition Members may be make the mistake of judge this Government by their own standard . I wish to ask the Secretary of State this : after my constituent and many other have suffer from the economic disaster that be cause in part by dodgy covid contract and vip fast lane , what will this Government do differently ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend here represent Bishop Auckland . the people of his constituency will be strike by the fact that this afternoon the conservative party have choose to create a mountain out of a molehill about a former Health Secretary come in to lend his advice and experience to a Labour Government . on covid corruption , my hon . friend be absolutely right to be angry , as indeed the country be , too . that be why my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer have be very clear that , when it come to cronyism and corruption in covid contract , we want our money back and the covid corruption commissioner be come to get it . there be just one standard and it apply to whichever party be in power , and that should be respect . all this whataboutery relate to what may have go on under a Conservative Government ! anyone who have do something wrong should be pursue . anyone in authority should be accountable . it be the failure of accountability , a failure of recognition , by the right hon . Gentleman that let down the House today . can he confirm to the House that Alan Milburn do not have access to official sensitive paper ? anyone who visit a Minister — they come in all the time — sit on one side of the table and the official sensitive document be on the other side . can he confirm that Alan Milburn do not have access that no other visitor would have ? in the meeting that I ask my right honourable friend to attend — I need to make sure that I get this absolutely right — I tend to think that I see he on the other side of the table in the corner . I can not guarantee that he sit at that point in every single one of the meeting , but he certainly be not sit next to I . with regard to the paper for the meeting that he attend , they be discussion paper about the challenge face health and social care . they be not government decision paper or recommendation for Ministers . there be a distinction between those two thing . I decide who attend meeting in the Department , and , when it come to wide - range policy discussion , I decide what read material people receive . the conservative party famously say that they have " have enough of expert " , and look at where that get we — the long NHS waiting list in history . I be pleased that my right hon . friend reject that approach emphatically . in the spirit of listen to professional who be try to make a difference , I ask he and his team to consider visit Hertfordshire , where the community trust be work on a hospital at home scheme . the scheme be make a huge difference to patient at the end of their life , who need to be support , care for and monitor . this be an important part of ease the burden on our NHS with which we have be leave . I would be delighted for either myself or one of my ministerial colleague to take my hon . friend up on that offer . what a refreshing change from so many of the contribution that we have have this afternoon from the opposition . of course we want to learn from people with experience and expertise in get it right on the NHS and social care . many of those people be outside Government . many of they have valuable experience in other part of the public sector , in our public service , in the voluntary sector and in the private sector — or indeed experience as patient , user or carer in our health and social care service . our message as a Government be clear : when it come to fix the crisis in health and social care create by the Conservatives , we can not get enough of expert , and we be look forward to mobilise the country in pursuit of our mission , so that we can deliver an NHS that our country can once again be proud of . give the potential for commercial advantage to Alan Milburn , will the Secretary of State publish all the paper that Alan Milburn be able to read ? if the Secretary of State give they on Privy Council term , as he seem to be say , will he at least give they to any Privy Counsellor who want they ? give the state of the Opposition , I bet they would love to see what policy discussion paper we be put forward in the Department of Health and Social Care . the hon . Gentleman be right : paper have be share with my right honourable friend on Privy Council term . the opposition will , in time , be able to judge the fruit of the labour , in term of my decision and the decision of this government when it come to fix the mess that they create . I welcome the decision of the Secretary of State to seek wisdom from expert across the health and care system in order to build a well nhs . be he aware of the virtual hospital system that have be use at West Hertfordshire teaching Hospitals NHS Trust Watford site , develop during covid in order to treat more people in a well setting ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . we know that the NHS be break , and be go through the bad crisis in history . we will shortly hear from the noble Lord Darzi about the outcome of his investigation into the true state of our national health service , but against that bleak backdrop of political failure be story across the country of triumph against the odd , and of some outstanding public servant do extraordinary thing , show what the future of our health and care service could look like with a Government on their side . I be pleased that such a Government be here — this Labour Government — and I would be delighted to hear more about my hon . friend ' s constituency . I wish the Secretary of State all the good in his new role , and in the task that he have take on . with great respect to my conservative colleague , the downfall of the Tory Government be due in part to the fact that people do not trust the background politic behind closed door . I want the Government to succeed , as do most people in this House . stability and direction be much need , but that can happen only with openness , transparency and a desire to put nation before party . how can the Secretary of State assure we that this Government will do thing differently , and that policy will be propose by those with know - how , and pass with scrutiny in this place , not simply due to pressure from lobby group ? I strongly agree with the hon . member . in the short time that I have be in post , I have be delighted to have have virtual meeting with the current Northern Ireland Minister of Health , as well as with his predecessor , the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , who now sit over there on the Opposition Benches — I be delighted to see he in his place . ministerial meeting attend by third party be declare in our quarterly transparency publication . People will want to lobby and influence Government , and member of Parliament , all the time . member of Parliament regularly receive correspondence — let alone the deluge of advice that we receive in government . the important thing be that minister take decision on the basis of the good possible advice available , that they weigh up carefully the evidence and argument in a fair and proper way , and that adviser may advise but Ministers ultimately decide . this government be aware of the deep crisis in trust in our politic . that be why , on his very first day , the Prime Minister talk outside Downing Street about restore Government to service . it be why it should be no surprise whatsoever that many people who have give outstanding public service to this country , such as my right honourable friend Alan Milburn — and the same be true of Patricia Hewitt , Alan Johnson , my noble Friend Lord Reed , the Mayor of Greater Manchester and many more — want to roll up their sleeve and help the Government . they can see the state that the conservative party leave our country in , and be willing once again to roll their sleeve up to get our country back on its foot , turn the situation around and ensure that everyone in our country can look forward to the future with optimism and hope after 14 year of abysmal failure . that be the end of the urgent question . I thank all member who participate . in reference to the Secretary of State early , the privilege of choose UQs be down to the Chair and be base on merit and the urgency of the point be raise . Post Office Horizon : redress with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on the Government ' s response to the Horizon scandal . how appropriate it be to see you , a former Business and Trade Minister , in the Chair . my priority as the new Secretary of State be to ensure that victim of the scandal receive the redress that they deserve . over the past few week , I have begin meet with some of the postmaster whose life have be so badly damage by those event . their story be harrowing , but their resilience and steadfastness in seek justice be inspire . I be also grateful for their candour in share insight on how the various compensation scheme can be improve . may I make a personal point , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I know I speak for hon . member across the House when I say that it fill I with sadness to have to stand here today and address such a significant failure of the state . the role of Government must be to do right , seek justice and defend the oppressed , yet government have too often have to be force into action by brave , tireless and resilient campaigning . once again , I pay tribute to the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance , and to campaigner such as Jo Hamilton , Lee Castleton and Sir Alan Bates — incidentally , I add my personal congratulation to Sir Alan on his recent wedding . without their tireless effort , justice may well never have be do in this case . as we stand here today , in the shadow not just of this scandal but those of Grenfell , infect blood and several more , I know that it be the firm conviction of everyone in this House that we must do well . this be an issue not of politic but of justice . in that spirit , I can not speak of the new Government ' s work to address this wrong without again acknowledge and appreciate the work of Lord Arbuthnot and the new Lord Beamish — formerly the Member for North Durham — as well as that of my friend the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) as Minister . the announcement that we make today be build on their effort to hasten redress payment and quash wrongful conviction . early in the summer , the new Government announce the launch of the Horizon conviction redress scheme . I be pleased to report that the first payment have be issue and good progress make on process the claim receive to date . as be the case for the group litigation order compensation scheme , the Department will be set a target to make , within 40 working day , the first offer to 90 % of those who have submit a full claim . additionally , the Post Office have now settle over 50 % of case on the overturn conviction scheme , with 57 out of 111 case fully settle . the Department have also now receive over 50 % of GLO claim and settle over 200 of they . Progress have also be make on implement the £ 75 , 000 fix - sum award on the Horizon shortfall scheme . as of 30 August , over 1 , 350 claimant who have previously settle below the £ 75 , 000 threshold have be offer top - up to bring they to that amount , and the Post Office will shortly begin make fix - sum offer to new claimant . those intervention will have a significant impact on ensure that postmaster can access redress swiftly and simply . however , we recognise that this option will not suit everyone and do not address all the concern raise by postmaster and their representative . that be why we be take further action today . the Horizon compensation advisory board recommend last year that we introduce an independent appeal process for the Horizon shortfall scheme . today I be pleased to announce that we have accept that recommendation . that appeal process will enable claimant who have settle their claim under the HSS to have their case reassess , with the benefit of any new information that they be not able to include in the original application . it will be deliver in - house by my Department , and we will apply the lesson learn from redress scheme to date to ensure that the process be easy for postmaster to engage with and that outcome be deliver at pace . we will announce further detail in the come month . there will be no obligation for postmaster to appeal their settlement , and no doubt many will be content that their claim have be resolve fairly . I know that financial redress will never fully compensate victim for their suffering , but we want to help bring some closure to postmaster as soon as we can , which be why we will establish the new appeal process as quickly as possible . in summary , the new Government will do everything in our power to deliver justice for postmaster , to bring they closure and to ensure that such a national tragedy be never allow to happen again . I commend this statement to the House . no doubt that statement will mean a lot to many constituent , include those in my constituency of Sussex Weald . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement and for his kind word . I assure he that we will continue to work collaboratively to put the interest of postmaster first . I also associate myself with the congratulation offer by the Secretary of State to Sir Alan Bates and Lady Suzanne Bates , and the recognition of their contribution and that of other . as the opposition promise during the very first urgent question of this Parliament , Ministers know that they will receive our full support to deliver compensation swiftly and quash the conviction of those wrong by this terrible tragedy . in his statement , the Secretary of State have set out a new appeal process for those who have already settle their claim under the Horizon shortfall scheme . I welcome that step . I know that the Department be implement the work of the Horizon compensation advisory board , which be instrumental during my time in office , and will no doubt be support the new Government . however , I have some question about the Secretary of State ' s statement . first , he confirm that the appeal process will be open for claimant who have settle their claim under the HSS , but it be restrict to those who have new evidence to support their case . in the same breath , he recognise lesson learn from redress scheme to date , indicate that his Department be aware of the flaw in the scheme , which I also acknowledge . crucially , will the appeal process also be available , as it should be , to all claimant , not just those with new information ? give the accept flaw in the scheme , it would be wrong to leave individual without the opportunity to appeal . if people choose the £ 75 , 000 top - up , will they be entitle to appeal ? if so , there be a risk that for those want to go through the appeal process it will be a slow process because of the number of people seek to appeal . secondly , the Secretary of State say that the appeal process will be up and run as soon as possible . can he set out a specific timeline ? finally , on appeal , can he tell the House whether these individual will be entitle to legal representation , as be the case in the GLO process ? could I also ask the Secretary of State some question about the broad compensation scheme ? some £ 289 million have be pay to over 2 , 800 claimant across four scheme . I be alarmed to find , however , that only six claim have be offer redress through the Horizon conviction redress scheme , and no full and final settlement have yet be make through that scheme . can he explain those number ? I be also concerned to hear the Secretary of State say last week that only 130 letter have be write to postmaster who have have conviction quash — I think there be 700 such postmaster — and that this be a matter for the Ministry of Justice , rather than his office . I be sure he realise that finger - pointing within Government will not wash with the people who have be through these difficulty and this horrendous scandal , so I must therefore push he on what step he have take to mitigate the delay in send out letter to those affect . finally , delay in all the scheme be at least partially the result of an adversarial process of lawyer argue with lawyer . as a remedy , we be work very hard for Sir Gary Hickinbottom , scheme reviewer in the overturn conviction scheme , to be appoint across all three scheme to expedite claim . can the Secretary of State confirm that that vital appointment have now be make ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his response , and for the tone and collaboration that we try to model when we be sit in opposite place in this Chamber . I believe that help advance what be a difficult piece of legislation to put on the statute book , particularly during a wash - up process , but be the only real vehicle for deliver what we all want to see . he have ask I a number of question ; all be absolutely reasonable , and I be happy to respond to they . in a situation where someone have already receive a top - up to £ 75 , 000 , the hon . member be right to say that the appeal scheme would not be available . it be a choice between the two good method of redress and satisfaction for the postmaster . I recognise what the hon . Member have say — that , give the issue with the speed of deliver redress , have that system clog up would not be satisfactory to anyone — but I think that both option represent reasonable way forward for people who be in that position . the hon . Member ask specifically about the remit of the appeal scheme , and I have listen to what he say . the reason we be announce today that we will take this scheme forward , but will then consult with postmaster to make sure the eligibility criterion be correct — he ask about the timeline , which be just a matter of month — be to make sure that we do not have to revisit the scheme , and can all be satisfied that crucially , postmaster themselves have confidence in it . that be the intention , so I be grateful to the hon . member for his comment about the remit of the scheme . the hon . Member ask about legal representation . yes , that be part of the scheme , again learn lesson from where we have be in the past . as he know , most of the scheme have now be adjust to reflect that , but I absolutely take his point about new announcement . I want to be clear about the difficulty that have exist with the Horizon conviction redress scheme . to update the House , I will give the hon . member the figure : so far , 180 letter have go out from the Ministry of Justice . include those letter and the people who have register with the Government who perhaps have not all receive a letter yet , there be now 276 claimant . I will make the appeal again : while we be do everything we can with Ministry of Justice colleague to make sure those letter go out , people can proactively register with the Government . to be frank , this have be a frustration . when the hon . Member and I be have our conversation when we sit in different place in the Chamber , neither of we perhaps know the state of the database and the record , and — have pass the legislation — the frustration we would face in get to people . however , do so be clearly integral to sort this out . finally , the hon . Member ask about the scheme reviewer . if I may , I will come back to he on that ; I will write to he to tell he the up - to - date situation . in summary , I say again that we will work with all party and all postmaster to get redress at pace , and to learn the lesson from where thing have not go well in the past , to make sure new announcement carry the confidence of the people who really need to have confidence in they . member should continue to bob if they want to be call . I be go to call everybody , as I know the Secretary of State also want to respond to everybody . I call the previous Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I add my congratulation to Sir Alan Bates and Lady Suzanne on what look like a very happy day . I welcome what the Secretary of State have set out for the House this afternoon . when our Select Committee report back in March , we say that trust in the Post Office be fundamentally break and that the appeal scheme need to be independent . this be an important step in that direction , but sub - postmaster have tell I this morning that there be still a problem with the time it take to get offer back when an offer be contest . the claimant ' s lawyer have a fix amount of time to put in a claim ; when that claim be contest , it be take far too long for Addleshaws , in particular , to come back and provide a second offer . what comfort can sub - postmaster take from the Secretary of State ' s announcement today ? this whole House agree that justice delay be justice deny . I be grateful to my right hon . friend , who will , I hope , see his work as Chair of the Select Committee reflect in this announcement — specifically , that we be set the target to issue initial offer to 90 % of claim within 40 work day of receive a full claim . on the point of how that be define , a full claim be one where , follow legal assessment , it be deem that it do not require any further evidence to assess the claim far . once that be in , the target , which his Select Committee rightly call for to make sure redress be deliver at speed , be part of this process . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for sight of the statement and , indeed , for his decision to come to the House at this early stage to update we on progress . I think it be worth say that we be deal with a catastrophic injustice that have affect hundred upon hundred of family — people who have pay with their livelihood and , in some case , tragically , with their life . there be a complete lack of trust in Government , of whatever political colour , over the last 20 or so year because of this . that be why his answer to the question raise already about the number of sub - postmaster who have be pay interim payment — only six , on the last datum available , under the Horizon conviction redress scheme — be such a key issue . likewise , as we have hear , the late datum show that few than one in six wrongly accuse sub - postmaster have receive letter confirm the quashing of their conviction . give this lack of trust — this mistrust — in government of whatever kind and in the Post Office management as a whole , would the Secretary of State also turn his thought to rebuild trust in the Post Office management and in the network in the long term ? in the eye of the public , the brand of the post office be solid , but in the eye of those who work in the industry and those who may come in as sub - postmaster , it be far less so . we be delighted in my constituency recently to see the reopening of post office in Shap and Kirby Stephen . it be wonderful to see those two reopening , but in Grasmere , Hawkshead and stavely we be without post office . in all three of those case , it be in part because the former sub - postmaster , while not always directly affect by the Horizon scandal , but with disgust at the Post Office management , have leave the industry and leave those village without a post office . what can the Secretary of State say to this House and to the current cadre of sub - postmaster , and those who may want to join that cadre , to encourage they ? will he focus on pastoral care , financial support and other thing that will bring about a package of inducement and enticement , so that those people who have feel let down so badly by Post Office Ltd management over the last 20 year will feel that the Post Office be something they can commit their life to for the good of our community and country as a whole ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that question . specifically on the figure for the Horizon conviction redress scheme , he be right to say that there be only six claim where interim payment have be make so far , but I can assure he that I would expect that to rise rapidly follow the announcement we have make , and I will keep the House inform as to all of that . I agree when he say that redress of this scandal have to link to the future of the Post Office itself . I think he be absolutely right . I mention in oral question last week that I will appear before the inquiry . it be about not just an assurance on the lesson that will be learn from the inquiry , but how that will affect decision go forward . like the hon . member , I have see the post office network change a lot in my constituency . I be at the new banking hub in Stalybridge on Friday . I think the public support for the brand and for the people on the frontline be very strong , but the business model , as it stand , be not fit for purpose . postmaster deliver essential service , but they do not make enough money from those essential service . I think too much of the money they make go into the centre and do not return to the frontline in a way that be a viable business model for all of our constituency . the issue of how the Post Office function as an organisation have to be tie not just culturally to the reform and redress we be all seek to deliver , but to the business model . I welcome today ' s statement on the appeal process , and thank Ministers for their engagement with I on this issue and in advance of the meeting we will have later this week . horizon victim be understandably wary of Post Office involvement in the compensation scheme , so can the Secretary of State confirm that the appeal process he have announce today will be completely independent of the Post Office ? as well as push for Horizon victim finally to get full compensation , what work be the Department undertaking to ensure that people be hold to account for their role in this scandal ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and recognise her contribution on this issue over many year . she be right to say that the appeal process I be announce today will be run in - house by the Department for Business and Trade . obviously , information will need to be provide by the Post Office , but an in - house scheme will be deliver . on redress , we be all follow Sir Wyn William ' s inquiry closely . we will need that to conclude and essential information will come out of it . after that , there will need to be a way to ensure that those finding , whatever they may be , be honour in full and that we learn from they . in a number of case , there be a need to hold people to account for their action throughout the scandal . Dewi Lewis of Penrhyndeudraeth be a former sub - postmaster who endure four month of imprisonment and have to wear a tag for another four month for a crime he never commit . he have not want I to raise his case in the Chamber before , because he say that to have his hope raise and then dash would destroy he : two week ago , he get a letter , I be glad to say , to say that his conviction be quash . but the damage that have be do to the reputation of the Post Office in rural Wales be now so immense that people be no long prepared to work in post office . I welcome that the Secretary of State say that he believe the business model be no long fit for purpose , but how can we be sure that we will have strategic planning to serve those community that be once serve so well by people like Dewi Lewis ? I recognise very much what the right hon . Member be say . I have have personal friend who be directly affect by this issue . even though I be their MP as well as their friend , they do not feel able to tell I about it because they be so concerned about the impact on their reputation — they could not even tell a friend who be a Member of Parliament , even though the issue be clearly affect their life very significantly . I be sure that , like I , she have have situation where there be one provider of postal service in a relatively rural area — I represent Greater Manchester as it get out towards rural derbyshire — and people want the service to continue , but for various business reason the provider be move on . it be sometimes hard to find someone willing to take that business on , not just because of the scandal , but because of the business model . I assure she that the work we be already do be about the future and recognise that , and make sure we have people in charge who recognise that that have to change . it be go to be a substantial piece of work for I and the Minister , but it be essential . we could not just provide redress for this scandal , without look to the future and make sure we get this right . I thank the Secretary of State for this statement . I also have constituent who be affect and I be grateful for the information about the appeal system . what step be Ministers in the Department take to secure the future of the Post Office network , and to reassure people who be consider become postmaster that they will not face the same unacceptable culture pervade Post Office senior management that be highlight by the Business and Trade Select Committee , and that lead to the Horizon scandal happen in the first place ? as I have say in previous answer , we have to understand that that scepticism and concern be valid . the scale of this scandal be so large that people will challenge their member of Parliament on how they feel about what they may be ask to do , and the risk that that pose to what be still an essential business and provider of service to all our constituent . that be key . I seek to reassure they by recognise the step and commitment that we have to address , but also the future of a business model that deliver the kind of remuneration and operate in a way that recognise the scale of the failure in the past . if I be a postmaster , I would welcome those word , but I would want to see action . that be the only way we will be able to do that . I welcome the update to the House today . we see through the ITV series that Lord Arbuthnot , like many , be an exemplary constituency MP and something for we to all aspire to . many campaign for so long in this place to recognise this scandal . I congratulate Sir Alan Bates and Lady Bates on their nuptial . can the Secretary of State assure the House that full engagement be be undertake with the MOJ , that the learning be be understand and that those expect their conviction to be quash will hear imminently , as all our constituent will want to see justice ? I very much echo the hon . Lady ' s point that , if there be one bit where our political system operate well in this , it be the constituency link and the classic Member of Parliament ' s surgery , although the story as a whole be clearly unsatisfactory . I recognise her word on Lord Arbuthnot and the cross - party campaign that come about . the Ministry of Justice issue be paramount and frustrating . the state of the record have delay the process , and that be a real frustration , but she will understand that , follow so much failure , if a case emerge where a letter be send out incorrectly after all that people have be through , that would clearly be outrageous . give I be now accountable for the scheme , I absolutely can not have that . I could talk about some of the thing we have inherit , but I do not think that be particularly helpful . I will simply give the hon . Lady the assurance that she rightly seek : this issue be of maximum importance and we be work at pace with Ministry of Justice colleague and the devolved authority in relation to justice system around the United Kingdom . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . I hear what he have to say about the involvement of the Post Office in the appeal process , but may I press he a little far ? give the mistrust in the Post Office that have build up over many year , even though the Post Office may only be provide information to the Department , be his Department satisfied with how the Post Office be provide that information ? have there be any occasion where the Secretary of State have have to challenge the Post Office ? that be the degree to which people mistrust the Post Office in this process , and that have be the case for many year . I think my hon . friend will have hear in my early answer that we have choose to deliver this scheme in - house in the Department for Business and Trade , reflect the concern he be reasonably express . to command people ' s confidence , they want to see the scheme not only set up , but deliver . that be why the update to the House on how we be progress under each scheme be so important , and I commit to do they regularly . I associate myself with the comment make on Lord Arbuthnot , who be a predecessor but one for part of my constituency . the Secretary of State have speak about the letter quash conviction , but do he not understand how important it be that those wait for the letter get they swiftly ? will the Lord Chancellor come to the House to give we an update on the progress be make with those letter ? the hon . Gentleman will have hear my answer . he would surely agree that to get thing wrong with these case would be a terrible problem . some of the error and the problem that have be cause have be a frustration , but I want to assure he . I think it be well , in matter relate to this scandal , that it be the Department for Business and Trade , give the interest of Members , that provide the update on these matter . however , I can assure he that work be proceed at pace , and people can proactively register their credential to ensure that there be no delay if they be in a position where they know they be one of the wrong party . I thank the Secretary of State for the update today . my constituent Mahesh , who visit I at our surgery on Friday , tell we that he have be assure that his conviction would be overturn — he be wrongfully convict under the Horizon scandal — but he be frustrate by the length of time it have take for it to be quash . it be prevent he from move on with his life . can the Secretary of State update we on what work be go on to speed up the process to quash these conviction , so that people like Mahesh in my constituency can move on with their life ? I very much recognise the conversation that my hon . friend have have with her constituent , and her need and desire to progress that claim . the issue be about ensure that the record be accurate . cross - referencing between Ministry of Justice database and court document be proceed apace . if her constituent have not yet have a letter and need to register their credential , they can do so , but I assure my hon . friend that this be of maximum priority . I thank the Secretary of State for the statement . it be welcome that the appeal process have be set out . I pay tribute to my SNP colleague and former MP , Marion Fellows , who , as many member will know , put considerable effort into the issue . she have provide I with wise counsel on it . how satisfied be the Secretary of State with take - up so far — there be obviously some helpful detail in the statement — and what awareness campaign be plan ? there may still be people out there who be not aware that they can claim compensation . it be important that as many method as possible be use to get to they . there have recently be complaint , even from legal expert , that the application form for redress be overly complex , and that even expert would struggle to fill it in . can the Secretary of State look to simplify it , obviously without our get away from the key point , and bear in mind the datum that need to be collect ? finally , I associate myself with the comment make about the wide impact . it be only a week since the Grenfell report ' s publication , and mention be make during the previous statement about the covid contract . these issue go right to the heart of trust in the Government , which be a really important point to address . I echo the hon . Gentleman ' s comment about Marion Fellows and her contribution to the scheme . he ask how satisfied I be . I will not be satisfied until everyone have have redress ; it be as straightforward as that . there be a group of about 2 , 417 claimant under the Horizon shortfall scheme , but follow the television drama , a whole range of people who be not aware that they be eligible come forward , which be incredibly positive . I think that over 1 , 500 people come forward . indeed , Members may still be find people who be come forward because of the awareness that raise . we should be thankful for the power of the art to get a message out to people . give the situation , none of we can be satisfied until we can be sure that we have get redress to everyone . that be what this Parliament collectively have to commit to . will the Secretary of State outline what the Government be do to investigate the predecessor capture system ? member may know that Capture be the precursor to the Horizon software . it be of concern to we , and we be investigate . the forensic accountant appoint to look into the issue be due to report fairly soon , and as soon as we have their finding , we will be able to update the House on step that may be necessary . I thank the Secretary of State very much for the statement , and for the clear commitment to closure for all those affect . he say that the role of Government be to do right , to seek justice and to defend the oppressed . I say amen to that ; that be exactly the Government ' s role . it be past time that our handling of the scheme come to an end , but that can happen only when every affected postmaster and postmistress have be restore reputationally and financially , and when lesson have be learn to ensure that our reliance on computer be never again the vehicle of persecution . will the Secretary of State assure I and the House that that have be do , and be in place right now ? I think that the hon . Member might recognise the word from Isiah that I use in the statement . the failure that go to the heart of what we be talk about today be not just about the reliance on computer system over the testimony of people on the frontline ; it be also about the culture of organisation and how government operate . we will definitely turn a page on all of that , but there be member in the Chamber who , like I , have be here not just for infected blood and the Grenfell statement last week , but for Hillsborough and Bloody Sunday . we must reflect on what have be a very difficult set of finding . I think that we can commit to make sure that we learn the lesson from they , and take they forward . that be the challenge for all of we who believe that we be here to do good , and to do as I say in the statement . there be more to do on that , but we can move in the right direction , and that be certainly what I and my Government Ministers will do . as my right hon . friend will be aware , sub - postmaster such as my constituent have experience an enormous amount of devastation without even have be convict — 30 year of reputation absolutely destroy . although he have have some compensation , he still do not know whether he have have the right amount of money , and whether he be pay the right amount of tax , and he still do not have an admission of responsibility and failing from the Post Office . how much of that will be deal with by this redress scheme ? I understand the situation , and the need to have different redress scheme to correct specific problem . I understand the constituent ' s sentiment , as describe by my hon . friend . I would like to make sure that we be do everything we can to provide the answer in every case . if she write to I about that case , I will look into it personally and advise she , so that she can advise her constituent to make sure that , as far as possible , we give the right advice . I be delighted to hear from the Secretary of State that progress be be make . recompense , apology and all the thing that should go with that can not come too soon . this House need to remember that but for the tenacity and the persistence of Sir Alan Bates , this issue may never have come to light . this be an issue of the state versus the individual . give the loss of confidence in the state , it be essential that the House reassure individual that the state will not bully they . that mean a full investigation , and people who bring arguably malicious prosecution must be bring to book . I would like his reassurance that that will happen . I very much agree . this be a major scandal , and we must ensure that the wide lesson and the wide lack of trust , which he correctly mention , be address in our response . that be fundamental . I have say many time that we might never have discover the scale of this injustice be it not for the campaigner . that be shocking , and we must all reflect very deeply on that . I thank the Secretary of State for his comment , and for his recognition that the issue be about more than redress ; it be about the restoration of trust . it have cast a long shadow in constituency across the country . in my constituency , after year of sub - postmaster desperately try to keep post office open in the face of programme of closure , we now face a challenge to get people to go into they . what be his message to those people , and those wonder whether the culture have change ? what lesson be the new Government drawing , across the public sector , to ensure candour , and to make sure that the culture that we see in the Post Office be not replicate anywhere else ? I recognise very much what my hon . Friend say . as I say in my early answer , there be an absolute need to not just provide redress but learn lesson for the future of the Post Office and all institution of the state . crucially , we must ensure that a business model be in place that reward postmaster with a decent return for provide an essential service , in an organisation that support their frontline activity and give they the income and the prosperity that they deserve for that . the Secretary of State know that 26 postmaster in Northern Ireland be wrongly convict . I thank he for his work with the Northern Ireland Executive to bring forward the necessary legislative process . I seek his reassurance that the redress scheme will be equally open to Northern Ireland postmaster who be wrongly convict because of a UK - wide issue . will the redress scheme apply to they as well ? People be aware that it be fairly challenging to have a situation in which justice be devolve across the United Kingdom . at time that have very much affect the debate in this House . I believe that what the hon . Gentleman say be the case , but I will write to he about the northern irish situation to give he the information that he need . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement and look forward to thing proceed to the necessary conclusion . redress be about right wrong , but there be more than one wrongdoer — there be also Fujitsu . last week , the Prime Minister tell we that firm that have fall short in relation to Grenfell would be remove from Government contract . bear in mind Fujitsu ' s action and that there be at least one suicide , will it be treat in the same way ? will there be redress against its unlawful action as well ? I agree with the hon . member . that be a crucial and important question . I welcome Fujitsu acknowledge its moral responsibility in relation to these matter . I understand that it be participate fully with the Sir Wyn Williams inquiry . we will need that inquiry to conclude . we should not pre - empt that in any way and take any decision before that process have be go through properly , give that we all support it . accountability will flow from the inquiry . it will be an important step and it will affect many , many organisation that have be part of this story . Fujitsu will clearly be one of they . Speaker ' s statement I wish to inform the House that the deadline for nomination for Select Committee Chairs pass at 4 pm today . the follow committee receive a single nomination and the candidate will be elect unopposed : Backbench Business Committee , Bob Blackman ; Culture , Media and Sport Committee , Dame Caroline Dinenage ; Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , Mr Alistair Carmichael ; Health and Social Care Committee , Layla Moran ; Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , Tonia Antoniazzi ; Petitions Committee , Jamie Stone ; Treasury Committee , Dame Meg Hillier ; and Welsh Affairs Committee , Ruth Jones . I congratulate the Members concern . the ballot for the remain post will take place on Wednesday 11 September , between 10 am and 4 pm in Committee Room 15 . a final list of candidate and their supporter will be available in the Vote Office later this evening . Bus Franchising with Permission , Mr Speaker , I wish to make a statement . today mark the first stop on this Government ' s journey to deliver well bus . day in , day out , bus shoulder the need of million of work people across the country , whether they be get to work or school , or see the doctor or friend . a reliable bus service be the difference between aspiration and isolation , between get on and be force to give up — a lifeline , plain and simple . but over the past four decade of deregulation , that lifeline have be on life support . community have suffer cut to thousand of service , with 1 . 5 billion few journey take place in 2019 than in 1985 , when deregulation begin . since 2010 , a staggering 300 million few mile have be drive by bus per year . that be the legacy the previous Government leave behind : a shocking decline in this country ' s bus service , which have do untold harm to community across the country . behind those stat lie human story — of the poor group , who catch 10 time as many bus as train , regularly let down ; of people deny access to work or education , because they can not depend on the journey there ; or woman and girl deny access to a safe journey home . they represent a steady cycle of decline that reverberate beyond bus to our economy as a whole , and of public service not work for work people . enough be enough . this mission - focus Government be elect to repair what be break , and to reform what do not work . we be clear about the fact that well bus be essential to a well Britain , and that bus be a route not just to connection but to economic growth , clean air , and a fair chance in life for everyone . that be why my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary have make fix this country ' s broken bus network one of her top priority in her Department , and it be why , just two month into office , we be kick - start a bus revolution that will put service back into the hand of local leader , achieve in just 10 week what the last Government fail to achieve in more than 14 year . the statutory instrument that we lay this morning open up bus franchising for all local transport authority in England . it give local leader more flexibility to adopt a model that work for their area , and because we be streamline the current two - step process , authority will now only need to obtain the Transport Secretary ' s consent before prepare a franchise scheme . this be a transformative change , one that will give every community the same power that mayoral combine authority across the country be currently use to deliver well service , along with the power to match they to local need . we know that the franchising model work : we need only look at the Bee Network in Greater Manchester , where bus be bring under public control just one year ago and where reliability have already improve , passenger number have already grow and a new 24 / 7 service have just be introduce ; or at Greater London , where public control have mean that more bus journey be now take in our capital than in the rest of England combine . we be take aim at the current postcode lottery of bus service to ensure that our most popular form of public transport start run in the public interest . local authority know good how to deliver for their community , which be why today we be empower they to follow in the footstep of Greater Manchester and London , to ensure that they have bus in the right place at the right time , truly serve local need . our plan will help to turn the tide after decade of decline . the statutory instrument will be back by a public consultation , which my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary also launch today . it seek view on break down the barrier to franchising , and on how we can support safe and more accessible service . by deliver simple guidance , it will support and speed up the franchising process , mean that council will spend less time and money fill in form , and more time planning route and prioritise the interest of the community that they serve . however , this be just the start of our journey . today ' s step pave the way for a new bus Bill later in the current parliamentary session — a Bill intend to reform funding , to allow franchise to be roll out to more place more quickly and cheaply , and to support council that choose not to franchise but still want the flexibility to deliver on local transport priority . the Bill will also allow we to remove the ideological ban on municipal bus company that be impose by the last government despite the huge success of those company , which can be see across the country where they be still in place — for instance , the award - win publicly own service in Nottingham and Reading . this , rightly , be not a one - size - fit - all approach , and , crucially , it place no additional burden on taxpayer . it simply acknowledge a truth with which many in the House will agree : that the good decision be not always make by Whitehall , but be make in town and city hall throughout the country by those who be accountable to local community , and by those who , day in day out , use the very service that we be talk about . it have be say before , and I will say it again : under this new Government , the Department for Transport be move fast and fix thing . today ' s step place well bus at the heart of this Government ' s plan for change . four decade after bus be deregulate , and after 14 year of decline , we be now empower community to take back control of the service on which they depend — to get Britain move , to get our economy grow and to get more passenger , wherever they live , back on board . I commend this statement to the House . we come to the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his statement . we on this side of the House be in full agreement that good local transport be something that everyone deserve access to , both for help people to live their life and for fulfil the economic potential of all part of the country . at the heart of our local transport service be bus . they be some of the most convenient , well - connect and accessible form of public transport out there — crucially , not just in urban area , but very often in under - connect rural area . that be why , in government , we invest billion of pound in the bus sector , include the vital support provide to maintain service during the pandemic . we roll out thousand of new zero - emission bus and introduce the " get around for £ 2 " scheme , save million of people money on their fare and help to get passenger back on bus . those intervention work . bus passenger journey in England increase by nearly a fifth in the year end March 2023 , and we welcome this Government ' s desire to build on our progress in order to improve service far , to get more route run at well frequency , and to make sure that as many people as possible have reliable service that get they where they need to go . I be genuinely interested in understand how the Government feel that this set of measure will achieve that . we be worried about some of the significant risk , which the Government do not seem to have consider . this legislation place great responsibility in the hand of local authority . we know that a number of local authority face financial and organisational challenge , and although I do not doubt that there will be enthusiasm for make use of the new power , run any form of public transport bring real challenge . of course , as the Minister say in opposition , gap in experience could be fill by support from the Department for Transport , but depend on the number of local authority that choose to take up franchising , this could mean that significant central Government resource be require . unless I have miss something , today ' s announcement include absolutely no funding to pay for increase capacity at the Department . what projection have the Government make of the cost , and how exactly do they expect they to be pay ? it be the same story with local government finance . make no mistake about it : this be go to cost money . many bus route , especially rural service , be loss making , even before we account for the additional resource that local authority will presumably need to operate they . in his statement , the Minister do not recognise the enormous challenge that have be create by change travel pattern post covid . if this Government be commit to provide service at 1985 level , as he seem to imply , they will need to commit to enormous level of subsidy . I welcome the success story in metropolitan area that the Minister talk about , but such service operate in a fundamentally different space , because of the density of those area ’ population . it mean that if passenger number fall next year , the financial risk will be take on not by a private company , but by the local council and , by definition , taxpayer . again , give that there appear to be no funding attach to the policy , surely it can be fund only by increase to council tax or cut to other local service . it be the same story when it come to responsibility for capital expenditure . will this now be the responsibility of local authority ? how exactly be they expect to fund it ? as we recently make clear when debate the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , it might be the Labour party ' s priority to undertake ideological reform to bring the transport sector far into the control of the state , but passenger ' priority be the price , performance and reliability of service , not who be run they . we want to hear how the reform will make a difference to passenger ' journey and their accessibility , frequency and cost , and how they will help to restore the number of rural service and make journey cheap for passenger — and not just through the generic pledge we have hear today , but through concrete commitment on which the public can hold the Government to account . the Minister make absolutely no commitment to increase level of service or mile travel as part of the Government ' s " revolution " . there be some simple thing that the Government could do for passenger , such as extend our " get around for £ 2 " scheme , which have be hugely positive for passenger and for the viability of service up and down the country . I be aware that the Chancellor be not Labour Members ' favourite person at the moment , but I encourage they to make the case for the cost - of - live benefit of the £ 2 scheme , as well as for the benefit of the winter fuel payment , in any hurriedly organise meeting today and tomorrow . the Government have get the wrong priority yet again . at the end of the day , passenger care about the preservation of exist service , the extension of route , improvement in frequency and reliability , and cost . we on this side of the House be all ear when it come to what difference this policy will make for they and — not to be forget — who be go to pay for it . modernise our transport infrastructure and deliver well bus be at the heart of our plan to kick - start economic growth in every part of the country to get our country move . this statutory instrument be just the start of a package of measure ; the bus Bill will deliver further measure on issue such as funding . despite the challenge financial circumstance we find ourselves in — inherit from the previous Government — we be determined to deliver well bus service , grow passenger number and drive opportunity to underserved region . all funding be rightly be consider as part of the spending review . there be no one - size - fit - all approach for bus within local transport authority . franchising be just one way that this can be explore ; there be also enhance partnership and municipal ownership . we firmly believe that our priority to deliver well bus across the country be the right priority , and we have the mandate from the british people follow the general election to do just that . last week and this week have be the good two week for public transport for many decade , right the wrong of the privatisation of the rail service and the deregulation of bus . I do not hear an apology from the conservative spokesperson for lay waste to local government finance over the last 14 year and destroy public bus service by hand they over to be run by profiteer , pirate and other completely unsuitable people — not in all , but in many case . do my hon . friend agree that there should be a massive apology from the Conservatives for the damage they have do to public transport ? I believe there should be a massive apology from the Opposition for the mess they have leave this country in and for the mess they have leave our bus service in . follow the previous Government , almost 300 million few mile be now drive a year compare with 2010 . that be an appalling statistic . this government will turn the tide for community across the country by give they the opportunity to control local bus service and to have a real say in develop the local transit system that serve they . the Secretary of State say — I will say it again — that we will move fast and fix thing . here be the proof . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we Liberal Democrats welcome today ' s statement to give local authority , not just metro Mayors , more power and the potential to run their bus service . we Liberal Democrats have campaign for exactly that for a very long time . the previous Conservative Government completely decimate local transport system , but the rot set in a long time ago . almost a quarter of bus route have be cut in the past 10 year outside London . whoever want to apologise for that , we need to see some change . bus service should be the most affordable and accessible of all form of public transport . good , well - use bus service would significantly contribute to get to net zero and to improve our air quality . the previous government , again , completely fail to make a positive case for that . not only be public bus crucial in urban area such as Bath , which suffer from more and more congestion , because people can continue to increase their use of motorised individual travel , and be also still struggle with cut air pollution ; bus service be also important specifically for rural area . what we currently have be completely inadequate , so will the Minister set out how today ' s announcement will improve rural bus service , not just in the long term , but in the short term ? the ability of local area and local transport authority to take back control of their bus service be crucial for rural area , because they know their community well . those decision should not be make from place in Westminster or Whitehall . again , local transport authority understand the specific need of their local community , be they rural or urban , and be well place to make those decision and design the network around those need . I welcome the statement and draw to the Minister ' s attention the Transport Committee report , " bus service in England outside London " , which be produce under the chairmanship of my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , who be now under - Secretary of State for Transport . there be some excellent recommendation in there . in region such as Greater Manchester , the process of introduce bus franchising have be quite lengthy . grant combined authority the ability to directly award contract would significantly shorten that timeline , allow area such as the north - east to bring about fast improvement . will the Minister confirm that the well bus Bill will include provision for direct award power ? I can confirm that my official be investigate the mean to do just that , and I will update the House accordingly as progress continue . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . he and the House know that local government finance be under pressure , and that the delivery of service in rural area be much more costly than it be in Manchester , Nottingham or London . that be just a geographical fact , which I think we all accept . may I urge the Minister , if he have not already do so , to engage the good office of the County Councils Network , as the lead body for county council and the unitarie , to find their view and suggestion ? I also say to he politely that if this be to work in rural area , for all the good reason that he set out about social mobility and access to work and education , rural council will require some extra money to deliver what we all want to see achieve . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and for his constructive engagement . I will certainly take up his recommendation to meet that grouping . of course , all funding be be consider in the round as part of the spending review , but I take his point on board . I very much welcome the Minister ' s statement . deregulation have be an absolute disaster in South Yorkshire . since 2010 , bus passenger mile have fall by 50 % . that mean lot of people be not get the service they previously have . the Minister have refer to Greater London , which get more than 10 time as much Government finance per head for transport as South Yorkshire . he also mention Greater Manchester . Manchester get a very good bus service improvement plan — BSIP — settlement last time round . South Yorkshire get nothing in the BSIP settlement . do he recognise the need to review some of these settlement ? otherwise , Mayor Oliver Coppard , who be committed to franchising , might see that the only responsibility they have be to make the cut to bus service in a different way from what would have be the case without franchising . there be a host — a plethora — of different funding pot relate to bus , and we be keen to amalgamate and consolidate they , but also , importantly , to devolve they to local area so that they have the funding flexibility they need to deliver well bus across their area . it be great to hear of the success the previous Government ' s £ 1 . 1 billion investment into Greater Manchester ' s Bee Network be help to deliver . I be delighted to launch it with the Mayor of Greater Manchester . as the Minister mention , one of the key thing about the postcode lottery be the cost of use the bus . it can really put people off , particularly in rural area where bus cost have traditionally be a lot high . be the Minister go to look at extend the Get around for £ 2 scheme , which have be a real success , particularly for access to education opportunity and for those in lower pay work in rural area ? it have really help to drive bus passenger number upwards since the end of the pandemic . deliver reliable and affordable public transport service for passenger be one of the Government ' s top priority , and we know how important it be for passenger and for local growth . we be look at the future of the £ 2 fare cap as a matter of urgency . we be consider the most appropriate and affordable approach , and we will update the House in due course . for as long as I have be a Member of this House , my constituent have look upon London with envy for one reason , and one reason only — its cheap and more reliable bus service with real - time bus information . too often , my constituent do not even know if a bus be come to the bus stop , never mind when . Kim McGuinness , our regional mayor , have commit to take back control of bus . can the Minister set out how he will work with she and support she to deliver the bus service that my constituent need and deserve after 14 year of Tory failure ? I have already meet the Mayor of the North - East on a number of occasion , and I be work closely with combined authority and mayor across the country to make bus franchising simple and easy . we will , of course , make sure that the Department for Transport provide support to local transport authority , with a centralised resource to ensure that we spread good practice across the country . I thank the Minister for his statement . the town of Bordon in my constituency be extraordinarily poorly serve by bus route , and it be cry out for a rail link bus service to the neighbouring town of Liphook . will the Minister and his official meet I to discuss how we can get a rail link bus service from Bordon to Liphook ? I be more than happy to meet any hon . member . I welcome the statement , as will my constituent in Scarborough , Whitby and the village who have see the vital bus service on which they rely slash over recent year . for example , cut to the 95 sleight to Whitby service have severely restrict my constituent ' ability to go about their daily life . do my hon . friend agree that we need to move at pace to improve such route in rural and coastal community ? I completely agree . this be fundamental to the work we have be pursue to make franchising quick and simple , and to avoid the need for local transport authority to spend their time fill in form at great expense . Britain be one of the few place in the developed world that hand operator power to slash bus service and set fare with very little say for the community that depend on those service . decade of fail regulation have leave community with little say on the essential service on which they rely , and we be determined to change that . as my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) say , the Lib Dems broadly welcome the principle of this statement , as I think will the Somerset Bus Partnership . the volunteer of this fantastic organisation in my constituency work tirelessly to encourage people to use bus . Somerset council be face an historic funding crisis and have narrowly avoid bankruptcy , so I be keen to understand how the Government will provide long - term funding so that such authority can do the franchising that have be promise . as I say , we be look to consolidate and simplify the funding pot for bus service , and we hope to deliver more multi - year funding settlement . I welcome the statement . the Minister be genuinely take control of our bus after year of the wheel on the bus not go round and round . I look forward to see the return of a direct service from Runcorn to Liverpool . will the Minister meet I and leader in Cheshire to discuss take control of bus service arrangement through a new devolution deal ? I would welcome the opportunity to meet my hon . friend . I thank the Minister very much for a progressive , positive statement that will encourage many . I welcome the step towards a more personalised approach to bus franchising . however , I believe it be essential , as I think the Minister do , that any change should be rural - proof to ensure that bus service allow our rural community to commute to work , to access medical appointment and even to go shopping , by protect service over profit through an iron - clothe guarantee . will he confirm that this be the Government ' s position ? I absolutely agree that rural bus route and rural community must be carefully consider . the good people to take that consideration be local leader , which be why we be determined to allow local leader to take back control of their bus service . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement . village in my constituency , such as Eccles , Burham and Wouldham , have suffer from 14 year of conservative cut and a reduction to the 155 bus service , which many elderly people rely on . will the Minister assure council such as Medway council and Kent county council that they can now join force and collaborate on bus route , so that we see an improvement to bus service for all our resident , include those in rural , isolated community ? the plan make it possible for all local transport authority to take back control of their bus . there be also the option of enhance partnership and municipal ownership . I look forward to work with my hon . friend to achieve his objective . bus be the most used form of public transport and a lifeline for those on low income . the inadequacy of bus service across Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme be an issue that come up regularly on the doorstep . Hatfield Woodhouse only recently have its bus reinstate after many month of have nothing at all . do my hon . friend agree that deliver well bus will be essential to the Government ' s mission , from grow our economy to break down barrier of opportunity and accelerate to net zero ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . effective public transport , include bus service , be fundamental to deliver many of our mission in government . at the weekend , I have the pleasure of attend the unveiling of two brand new community - own green bus in the village of Middle Barton in my constituency . after 14 year of devastation to public bus service in Oxfordshire , such community - lead scheme can go a long way to fill the gap . do the Minister agree that a decade of renewal promise by this Labour Government must see an improvement and regeneration in rural bus service ? absolutely . we want to give local transport authority and leader the power to take back control of bus service , to shape the future of those service to accurately reflect the need of individual community . I thank the Minister for his statement — we should speak about bus much more often in this place . Edinburgh have an award - win bus service , which carry 2 million passenger per week . its highly unionised workforce — I think over 90 % — work in collaboration with the director of the company . we already get around for £ 2 inside Edinburgh because that be the price people pay no matter how far they travel inside Edinburgh . that be a fantastic example of what public ownership in public transport can do . do the Minister agree that more ownership and control of bus service be key to drive down cost for passenger , increase patronage and hit our net zero goal ? I agree with my hon . friend . I be pleased to visit a municipal bus company in Nottingham ; the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , represent that area . I be blow away by the company ' s knowledge of and commitment to the local area , and its have receive numerous award , with a satisfaction rating of something like 89 % . municipal bus company be also a fantastic option for local authority to consider . it be interesting to hear the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson talk about the importance of preserve exist bus route , when their party have preside over 14 year when thousand of bus service be lose to community across the country , include in my constituency , where we still do not have a direct bus route from Nantwich to our local hospital . it have take this Government just 10 week to present a plan to fix local bus service . do that not epitomise how underserved our community and local economy have be by 14 long year of conservative government ? I could not agree more . the Government ' s plan be the big reform of England ' s bus system in 40 year , put power in the hand of community who need it the most . today ' s announcement be a vital first step to achieve that . it be great to visit the First Bus all - electric depot in York the other week , but I be sadden to hear just day later that First have withdraw child ' s monthly bus pass . after meet representative of the company , they be review that decision , but do my hon . friend agree that travel to and from school should be affordable ? will he meet I to discuss the future of bus in York ? of course I want to make sure that bus fare be affordable . I will meet my hon . friend to discuss his particular circumstance . as have be say , the past 14 year of Conservative Government have leave local bus service , especially those in coastal community , in a shocking state . in East Thanet , the 33 , 34 , 9 and 8a bus service have all be drastically cut , mean that in certain area of Broadstairs and Ramsgate there be no bus service at all within easy reach , and no one in either town have access to a bus to Canterbury outside commuter time . conservative - run Kent county council must take up the power that be be offer by this Government to serve disadvantaged community such as that in East Thanet . bus matter to million of people , but 14 year of the Tories ' broken bus system have lead to countless community be fail and a spiral of decline in bus service . I hope all local transport authority consider the range of option available to they to take back control of their bus and shape service for the community that they serve . after the deregulation and decline of bus under the previous Administration , I imagine that local authority be somewhat shocked and surprised at be give the opportunity to shape service genuinely in the public interest . what additional support be my hon . friend consider to empower local authority , especially small district authority such as Rugby borough council , so that they can move fast and fix thing locally ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . we be increase the capacity of the Department for Transport to assist small authority , so that all local transport authority can consider franchising and other mean of improve bus service in their community . I thank the Minister for his statement . I be pleased to see he drive forward this policy to improve our bus service , which be a vital lifeline for my constituent in Burton and Uttoxeter . do he agree that this plan put we on the right route by expand franchising power so that local voice can finally steer bus service in the right direction ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he have already be a fierce advocate for public transport and bus service in his constituency . local leader , not private operator as be currently the case , will have the power to set route , fare and service , put passenger first after decade of regulation . that be the option available through franchising . municipal ownership be also an option , as well as partnership with operator and local authority . as the Minister have already point out , and other in this Chamber have say , bus franchising have clearly deliver fantastic result where it be already in operation in Greater Manchester and London , but it will not be right for all community . in my constituency , there be often only two bus a day connect the outlying village to Dartford and other population centre . do he agree with I that the upcoming bus Bill will be a fantastic opportunity to end the postcode lottery of bus service across the country , provide maximum flexibility to local leader , such as those in Kent if they be prepared to use it , to choose the right system for their population ? I agree with my hon . friend . we must turn the page on year of conservative failure in local transport , which be why the forthcoming bus Bill , in conjunction with our announcement today , will help end the country ' s transport postcode lottery . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on 29 July , during a statement on public spending and inheritance , in response to my question about the effect that the scrapping of a new hospital programme will have on Frimley Park hospital , which serve the northern part of my constituency , the Chancellor of the Exchequer respond : " my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will meet all those with affected hospital — include those affect by RAAC — to ensure that we can as quickly as possible address the challenge " . — [ Official Report , 29 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 1065 . ] since then , I have have no contact from either the Health Secretary or the Chancellor . I seek your guidance , Mr Speaker , on how I can secure that meeting , and whether you have any advice for Ministers when make promise in this House on behalf of their colleague ? I assure the hon . member that I have absolutely no responsibility for Ministers , and neither would I want to have it . the message have go out loudly . he have put it on the record , and I be sure that it have be note by those on the Treasury Bench . if thing do not happen , I say to the hon . member — whose brother would , I be sure , also give he some good advice — that he can go to the Table Office . many option be open to he to pursue the matter , but I be sure that the message have be hear . sanction : Russia I beg to move , that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2024 , ( SI , 2024 , no . 834 ) , date 29 July 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 30 July , be approve . the instrument , which amend the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) Regulations 2019 , be lay before Parliament on 30 July use power provide by the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 , and enter into force on 31 July . for clarity , the instrument be first lay on 24 May under the previous Government . this government support the aim of the instrument , so we revoke and re - lay it to provide additional time post election for the require parliamentary scrutiny . there be no amendment to the policy in relation to Russia sanction , and the substance of the instrument remain the same . the United Kingdom ' s commitment to Ukraine be iron - clothe . in July , the UK contribute £ 40 million to NATO ' s comprehensive assistance package for Ukraine , which ensure that Ukraine will access vital assistance for counter - drone technology , de - mining of reclaim land , and the medical rehabilitation of injured ukrainian personnel . Ukraine have place new order for ammunition worth £ 300 million through the international fund for Ukraine , which be administer by the UK . sanction , too , be a crucial tool to weaken Russia ' s ability to attack Ukraine . in July , the UK host the European Political Community at Blenheim Palace , where more than 40 country sign a call to action to tackle Russia ' s so - call shadow fleet : a fleet of age oil tanker , which use deceptive shipping practice and substandard insurance to attempt to undermine sanction on russian oil . at the event , the UK spearhead action against the shadow fleet when we sanction 11 oil tanker . through this action , we continue to demonstrate the UK ' s steadfast commitment to Ukraine and underline our lead role in erode russian oil revenue . target sanction against oil tanker have have a material and immediate impact . UK sanction tanker have be leave idle , knock out of the russian oil trade and for the most part unable to load new cargo . the instrument provide the basis for those sanction , and have enhance the UK ' s ability to respond to Russia ' s increasingly desperate and reckless attempt to undermine our and our partner ' sanction . I thank the Minister , welcome he to his place , and wish he well in his role . I have be sanction by China and Russia , along with many other in this House — it be almost a badge of courage — but that be not the issue . my understanding of today ' s sanction be that business and those who have super yacht will be impact directly , but that be all that the instrument mean . if that be the case , will the Minister ensure that our sanction have enough tooth to bite , and to be painful ? I thank the hon . member . if he allow I , I will go a little far into the introductory remark , which I hope will specify why this afternoon ' s measure will provide great tooth . I hope that will answer his concern , but if it do not , I will return to he . the instrument , as well as increase the effect on shipping , also broaden the designation criterion under the Russia regime . it expand our power to target those who provide financial or material support to Russia ' s war machine . that could include , for example , foreign financial institution that facilitate significant transaction on behalf , or in support , of Russia ' s military industrial base . that be in line with step take by partner and the G7 ' s commitment to curtail Russia ' s use of the international financial system to further its war in Ukraine . let I turn now to the measure about which the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) ask . the instrument add new relevant activity to the exist power in the Russia sanction regime under regulation 57f — " specification of ship " — to provide the criterion to sanction individual ’ ship . the amendment provide that a ship may be specify by the Secretary of State where there be reasonable ground to suspect that it be , have be or be likely to be use for any activity whose object or effect be to destabilise Ukraine , to undermine or threaten the territorial integrity , sovereignty or independence of Ukraine , or to obtain a benefit from , or support , the Government of Russia . that include where a ship be involve in carry dual - use or military good , oil or oil product that originate in Russia , or any other good or technology that could contribute to destabilising Ukraine or to undermine or threaten the territorial integrity , sovereignty or independence of Ukraine . where a ship be specify under regulation 57f , it will be subject to measure in regulation 57a to 57e — the shipping sanction . where those sanction apply , a specify ship be prohibit from enter a port in the UK , may be give a movement or a port entry direction , and can be detain or refuse permission to register on the UK ship register — or , indeed , have its exist registration terminate . additionally , UK person and person in the UK can not provide fund and financial service , include maritime insurance , or brokering service , in relation to specify ship that be transport certain oil and oil product , and can not use specify ship to supply or deliver russian oil and oil product , regardless of the price of the oil on board . once again , the UK have already specify ship use that enhance power . the previous Government specify six vessel on 13 June . in July , this Government specify 11 vessel that be operate as part of Russia ' s shadow fleet . that fleet attempt to undercut our sanction , undermine the maritime rule - base order , and present an environmental and maritime security threat to coastal state . this statutory instrument also amend regulation 6 of the Russia sanction regime . that regulation provide the criterion for the designation of individual or entity for the purpose of an asset freeze and other relevant measure . specifically , the instrument add additional activity for which a person may be designate , include where individual or entity provide financial service or make available fund , economic resource , good or technology to person involve in obtain a benefit from , or support , the Government of Russia . in practice , that widen the set of actor and enabler that can be target for provide financial and material support to Russia and its war machine as Putin continue to prosecute his illegal war in Ukraine . the instrument also consolidate power under the Russia regulation to designate individual or entity involve in the destabilisation of Ukraine . specifically , the additional activity that the instrument add to the designation criterion make possible the designation of person who have own or control entity involve in destabilising Ukraine , as well as individual who work as director or manager of such entity . in the plain language — because that be the language that the hon . member for Strangford use — the instrument enable we to target the ship , as well as the individual or entity involve with the ship . we find , through the previous regime , that the ship itself be the sharp area of vulnerability , so the International Maritime Organisation number of the ship itself be where sanction have great effect , and that be the effect that we be use today . I understand ; the Minister have lay out the system very simply . it apply to the EU , but we all know that those who seem to break most of the rule be India and other country across the world that be out to buy russian oil . if that be the case , what discussion have be have to ensure that India do not contravene what we be try to do through these sanction ? I say gently to the Minister that we have only an hour and a half for this debate . I know member want to speak and I do not want to take any of that precious time away . I defer to your good guidance , Mr Speaker . in conclusion , european security be a key focus of this Government . support Ukraine remain vital to that end , and the UK be commit to do so . I be sure that , when I come to answer hon . member ' question , I will have an opportunity to say a little more about how we work with our partner , include India , on these matter . we will work with international partner to ensure that the value of democracy , human right and international law be maintain . this legislation and subsequent sanction make under it show our commitment to Ukraine as it defend its freedom in the face of russian aggression . british support remain iron - clad . I commend the regulation to the House . I call the shadow Minister . as this be the first time that I have appear opposite the new Minister at the Dispatch Box , I wish not only to congratulate he but to welcome he to his place . in a previous life , we serve together in the Foreign Office . he be free to disagree , although I discourage he from do so , but I believe we work well together in difficult condition and I hope that we will have the same relationship go forward . I be confident that he will bring the same dedication to his new position that he show in his work at the Foreign Office , although it be a difficult time to take responsibility for the middle east and north Africa . we all wish he genuine success in the role . although the Government may have change , the commitment across the House to support Ukraine and starve the russian war machine remain absolutely resolute . this motion demonstrate continuity of purpose , as it be originally lay by the Conservative Government , be interrupt by the election and have now be re - table by the new Minister . the Conservative Government introduce the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act in 2018 , allow we to build our own sanction regime have leave the European Union . although our co - operative approach with the EU on sanction be vital , particularly on Ukraine , that legislation lay the groundwork for the UK to create a world - lead and effective sanction regime , as be demonstrate after Putin ' s renew illegal invasion of Ukraine and concern about the territorial sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina . the UK have now sanction over 2 , 000 individual and entity under the Russia sanction regulation , with over 1 , 700 target since Putin launch his renewed and barbaric illegal invasion of Ukraine . major progress have be make in cut Russia off from global financial system , restrict its military - industrial complex , reduce oil and gas revenue and ban item with dual military use from export to Russia . briefly , on behalf of my party , I want to thank the countless civil servant , intelligence personnel and official — some of they will be in the Box today — who work day in , day out to refine and improve our russian sanction regime . I know it be often difficult and hard work , long into the night . we be extremely lucky in this country to be able to rely on some of the most intelligent and hard - work sanction official . I be sure the Minister have already see just how effective they be , and of course he will have long - stand friendship with some of they . the motion address a key pillar of our sanction regime : the identification and designation of russian shipping , include ship operate under Russia ' s so - call shadow fleet . the success of our sanction regime have force Russia to resort to expensive and complex logistical measure to source sanctioned good and material and export oil and gas , often via third country , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention . it be therefore imperative that we target the maritime artery feed the russian war machine , and we welcome the fact that the motion will sanction a further 17 russian vessel , include 15 from Russia ' s shadow fleet . it demonstrate that , no matter how deep Russia sink into the shadow , the UK and our partner will identify and act against russian asset and their war machine . the broad change to facilitate more effective targeting of russian shipping and of individual aid and abet russian aggression be also welcome . the Minister have our full support for those change . our commitment to work collaboratively and in a spirit of co - operation with the Government on the development of our russian sanction regime will continue , because some thing , rightly , be above politic . as I be sure the Minister be aware , two area require attention be the transfer of dual - use technology to Russia from China and the kidnapping of ukrainian child , which some say be a form of genocide . although I understand that he can not comment on future sanction , I ask he to keep all option open and commit to target any entity , individual state or organisation provide support for Russia ' s illegal and brutal war and the kidnapping of ukrainian child . maintain an effective sanction regime require continuous attention and effort . this instrument be an important continuation of that work , and we support the Minister ' s bring it to the House . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and welcome he to his position in the House . he bring a huge amount of experience in this field , and I know he will do a fantastic job . tighten economic sanction on Russia be one of the most fundamental way that we can help to support the people of Ukraine in their fight for democracy , and that be what I want to speak about briefly . throughout history , conflict have be a battle of individual courage and morale — something that the people of Ukraine have demonstrate time and again over the past two year since the russian invasion — but it have always also be a battle of technology . from the roman legion through to the Manhattan project , the side with the well , more advanced technology often prevail , which be why it be important that our sanction restrict Russia ' s ability not just to resource its war , but to fight it in the first place . as the saying go , chip be the new oil . russian semiconductor technology remain around 15 year behind that of NATO ally , but by avoid sanction , it be able to overcome that problem . More than two year on from its illegal invasion , Russia remain able to acquire the microchip necessary for advanced missile and drone that be use against innocent civilian in Ukraine . many will remember — I certainly do — that , when our sanction be first introduce , there be talk that Russia ' s economy would come to a standstill , that within month , plane would not be able to take off and Russia ' s military would be unable to function . clearly , that have not happen . we must therefore ask ourselves why and what more we can do . today ' s move to ban shadow tanker and sanction those who operate they be the right decision . it will impair Russia ' s ability to finance its war by sell and transport oil , but there be still more to be do , much of which will require ingenuity and the kind of careful diplomacy that I know the Minister be more than capable of . there be two broad strand to the way in which Russia be obtain this technology . the first , and perhaps the most difficult to resolve , be by repurpose common technology , the kind of dual - use microchip that the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) refer to . they be in washing machine or microwave , but they be also appear in russian attack weaponry . for example , the Orlan - 10 drone — use by Russia to target ukrainian troop — contain some western - make component that we would normally find in weather station , or even in dishwasher . when the Minister sum up , will he reflect on what work the Government be do to make sure those dual - use microchip be unable to be use in that way ? the other way that Putin ' s military have continue to supply itself be by avoid sanction via third party . the evidence be widespread : since the invasion of Ukraine , export from the EU to some of the country border Russia have increase by around 50 % , roughly equivalent to three quarter of the drop in european export to Russia since the war begin . it do not take a genius to work out what be go on , especially give that the big growth in export be in heavily restrict product group such as chemical , electronic and machinery . I know that the Minister will be keenly aware of this problem , so could he inform the House of the diplomatic work that the Foreign Office be undertake to ensure we combat it ? I fully support the Government ' s move to tighten sanction . Russia must never be allow to prevail in Ukraine , and we must constrain its resource to fight this illegal war . the people of Ukraine have show incredible bravery , courage and skill . the very least that we in this place can do be honour our commitment to they . I know the Minister will do everything in his power to help achieve that . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . give that this change to the law seek to tighten economic and trade restriction on Russia , the Liberal Democrats support this statutory instrument , which have be carry on from the work of the previous Government . however , if we step back from the detail of what this SI seek to do , it be worth look at some of the context in which it have be table . proceed from oil and gas sale within Russia ' s federal budget rise by 41 % in the first half of 2024 . that be partly account for by the fact that oil price have go up and the rouble have become weak , but we can not get away from the fact that Russia be profit from its oil and gas sale in a way that be not the case a year ago , and be get far great proceed from the sale of its oil and gas . that matter , of course , because Russia be use that money for its grossly illegal aggression in Ukraine . it be think that those oil and gas sale account for between a third and a half of the total russian federal budget , so we have to ask how that be happen . yes , it be partly happen via russian ship that be part of this so - call shadow fleet , and it be welcome that the SI will prohibit those ship from enter a port in the UK . it be welcome that those ship can be detain in the UK and will be refuse permission to appear on the UK ' s ship register , but the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be exactly right : we also have to think about what other country than the UK be do . accord to the Financial Times , the oil trade between India and Russia almost double to $ 65 billion in 2023 . India import very little crude oil before the invasion of Ukraine ; now it be the no . 2 importer of russian oil , after China . it be allege that India have be refine russian crude and re - export it to european nation that be otherwise see as subject to , and comply with , our sanction regime . it be also interesting to hear from the hon . member for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) about the use of dual - use technology . it be true that Russia be seek to become increasingly self - sufficient , while it also look to China and India to import technology in the field of artificial intelligence , space technology and energy technology . early this year , we see the former russian Deputy Prime Minister Andrey Belousov , previously Minister for the economy , become the principal Minister for Defence . we now need to move to the next stage : when we think about dual - use good , we need to think about how to make sure we can throttle the russian economy so that it be not import good that can be use for aggression in Ukraine . I call Josh Simons to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know that tradition dictate that these speech pay homage to our honourable predecessor , but the history of maiden speech deliver by member for Makerfield be somewhat chequer . my predecessor , Yvonne Fovargue , have to face down an unwelcome opponent — an unusually persistent wasp . just as she stand up , after buzz around her face , it strike , leave she to struggle through the next few minute while her face gradually swell up . her predecessor , Ian McCartney , face an even more formidable opponent : Michael Fabricant . I be tell that , for decade , the parliamentary record of that encounter have stand uncorrected . as Mr McCartney begin , Mr Fabricant put his foot up on the Bench . Betty Boothroyd be sit in your chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . Mr Fabricant interrupt with a point of order — not the do thing during maiden speech , I be tell . " Madam Speaker " , he say , " can you ask the man to speak in English ? " , mock Mr McCartney ' s thick Scottish accent . Mr McCartney retort , " if he doesn ' t mention my accent , I win ' t mention his wig . " the record do not then note Mr Fabricant ' s response , " touch é , touch é " , or Mr McCartney ' s victorious retort , " Toupee , toupee . " anyway , so far today there have be no wasp , and — a point that may perhaps unite this House in gratitude — no Michael Fabricant . while I do not wish to emulate those misfortune , I hope to continue those member ' good work in deliver for the people of Makerfield . many in this Chamber may not know that Makerfield be not really a place : it be a suffix attach to a collection of town , give the name of an ancient lancastrian forest call Macerfield that use to stretch unbroken from Wigan to Warrington . the town I represent include Hindley Green and Hindley , Platt Bridge and Abram , Ashton and Bryn , Winstanley and Worsley Mesnes , and Orrell and Pickley Green . the history of those town be the history of our nation . many dig pit mine , produce the coal that power our industrial revolution . while man dig the coal , woman sort it — pit brow lass , as they be know . mine worker organise into union and , since 1906 , elect Labour mp to represent they . industrial decline bring great destruction to many of these town — place such as Abram , Bryn , Bickershaw and Hindley — and they will never forget the callousness with which they be treat in those year . that be one reason why I support deliver justice to mineworker on the mineworker ' pension scheme . Coal make this nation wealthy , and now we must ensure that those worker live with dignity in old age . back by a Labour Government , Ian McCartney deliver the minimum wage , new health hub in Platt Bridge and Worsley Mesnes , and investment in Abram and Winstanley . then under the Tories , 14 year of austerity deepen the wound of industrial decline , hollow out public service and degrade public space , while wealth accumulate in London and the south - east . my predecessor , Yvonne Fovargue , work hard to protect constituent , continue a tradition of work closely with the fantastic Wigan council on its groundbreaking Wigan deal . she deliver a new health centre in Ashton and be a lead voice in combat debt , loan shark and those who prey on the most financially vulnerable . through their up and down — their history be the history of this country — the town I represent have develop one simple superpower : a community spirit that should be the envy of this land . they have pride in place , and care for friend , family and neighbour . today , this spirit manifest in some of the wonderful community organisation I have have the privilege of get to know . in Orrell , there be Tony , Julie , volunteer at Brighter Better Orrell , the friend of Orrell Station , Greenslate community farm and Greenslate water meadow . in Worsley Mesnes and Winstanley , there be Joe at St Judes rugby club , Winstanley Warriors football club , and the Clifton Street community centre . in Ashton and Bryn , there be the Brian Boru club and Garswood Hall Bowling , Ashton Town FC and Ashton Athletic FC , which be currently rebuild after a mindless arson attack . in Abram and Platt Bridge , there be David ' s fantastic Wigan & Leigh Community Charity and Wigan Cosmos FC . in Hindley , there be Eric at the Hindley community allotment , the Friends of Hindley Station and the friend of Borsdane wood ; and in Hindley Green , there be the Brunswick bowling club , the St John ' s church and Bethel community centre , and the Hindley Green Residents Association . what be the future for these town and for our country ? that be the question that we Labour Members must now answer . the task be immense . People I represent have lose trust in politic and in politician . they believe that the work we do here make little difference to they . they feel that we lecture , we speak , and we let economist , lawyer or banker tell we the " right " answer , but that we do not listen , or respect or represent they . that be why the weight of responsibility on this government , on I as my constituent ' representative and on all of we across this House could not be great . together , we must deliver for decent , fair - minded , hard - work people who love their community and their country , especially those in the former industrial heartland of our great nation , which I be so proud to represent . we can not and will not let these people down . in this House , I hope to use my career to contribute on this question of the future . I spend year work on technology , datum and machine learning . too often , we talk about technology as an inexorable force , as if it bend society to its will , but it have no will . technology be a tool . we build it , we design it and we use it in our world in way that we choose . now more than ever , we must have the interest of work people in mind as we harness the great potential of technology . I look forward to work with colleague across this House who share those interest . however , my family be what bring I more pride than anything . my parent divorce at a young age , so I grow up shift between home , town and religion . I learn to see the good in people and in way of living that could not be more different . now I be lucky enough to see the world through the eye of my child . I remember friend ask I before our first child be bear , " how do you feel about bring a child into this grim world ? " , but to I that have it all wrong . child be a bridge to the future . they inject hope for what our community , our country , and we as individual can be . that be why childcare will be a key focus of mine . we make have child too hard , too exhausting and too expensive in this country . radically reform childcare may be one of the most effective way to deliver change that work people can feel , as well as boost our workforce , and that be why I will campaign hard for that reform over the come month and year . let I end by return to something that my predecessor Mr McCartney say about the history and the future of the town we represent . democracy , he say , be not solely , or even primarily , about this place , or about we . it be about the effort and endeavour of ordinary people . it endure because people have their country and their desire for freedom and fairness in their heart . that be a profound lesson — a lesson that bear on this age even more than on his , and one that we must hold close through the challenge ahead , for we live in an age of insecurity . as the organisation I be proud to lead , Labour together , have argue , we must once again focus on strength , security and work with ally to navigate the choppy water ahead . that be what we be here debate this afternoon , which be why I urge this House to support tighten sanction on Russia . we must navigate the challenge of this age with a constant focus on work people , who be the backbone of this country , because unless work people like those I be so proud to represent feel change , and unless we in this Chamber demonstrate humility and honesty , and act with integrity and with respect , they have no reason to believe in democracy . that be the kind of representative for the people of Makerfield that I hope to be . I call the SNP spokesperson . first , I congratulate the new hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) on his extremely well deliver maiden speech . I be sure that he be somebody whom we will not be able to ignore over the next few year . inevitably , give his remark , he have somebody with a scottish accent follow his maiden speech . I hope that everybody in the Chamber will be able to follow mine , unlike Michael Fabricant in the past . I also think it be important to speak today , and I join colleague in back the Government ' s move on sanction . the cross - party support that the Government have on this issue be exceptionally important . we could be slightly more robust on this issue , and I have a number of very specific question for the Minister . I know that he will not be able to answer they all , but I would like to put they on record for he to answer in due course . first , I be very pleased to hear the Minister talk about european security . we be of course strong in deal with russian aggression in Ukraine when we do so in commonality with our partner in Europe . I be pleased to hear the Foreign Secretary talk about the importance of common european foreign and security policy . however , that security also apply to issue such as energy , and when it come to energy security , be outside the single market make we less secure . I would like to hear from the Minister about the area in which he feel he can deepen our security by work with our european partner — on sanction , but also more broadly . secondly , on tighten up financial regulation , the Minister will be aware of the issue of shell company . the former Member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath , Roger Mullin , frequently raise the really important issue of scottish limited partnership . I know that this be not something that the Minister can answer immediately , but can he look at financial regulation and the challenge around dirty money ? all too often , as we know — this have be pick up on by member from across this Chamber — that money have find its way into the UK economy . I would be grateful if he could look at that issue , although I acknowledge that put he on the spot right now may be a little unfair . I want to pick up on the recommendation in the report by the Intelligence and Security Committee . yes , I know we be talk about sanction , but there be the broad issue of polarisation and disinformation in our society . I pay tribute to the work of my predecessor , Stewart Hosie MP . he work tirelessly on the Intelligence and Security Committee , as do colleague from across the House , on that issue . I have not yet have the opportunity to pay tribute to he in the House for his role in raise these issue in Parliament , but also for be an exceptionally diligent , hard - work and popular local MP . I want to pick up on point make by the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) . first , I pay tribute to colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , who have be work on this issue exceptionally hard . I also pay tribute to the intelligence service for the work they have do , often in very difficult circumstance . it would be remiss of we not to touch on the exceptional work do by the international community of non - governmental organisation , many of they base in the United Kingdom , which have do incredibly brave work in the field on this issue . some of the work NGOs have do have find its way into policy — for other , that be not so much the case — but the international NGO community have be exceptionally good over the year , and often ahead of the Government of the day on some of these issue . the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford mention the kidnapping of child , and I wholly endorse her remark . the hon . member for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) be right to pick up on technology and its secondary role , and I endorse his remark . finally on sanction , I ask the Minister to look across the piece at the system of control on arm export to secondary country . I hope — I will write to the Foreign Secretary about this — that we will ensure that we do not catch country such as Ukraine in the measure , and impede their ability to defend their territorial integrity after Russia ' s aggression . I thank the Minister for his comment . he will have our support . I call Tim Roca to make his maiden speech . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) on his fantastic maiden speech . there be already a little bit of confusion between Macclesfield and Makerfield , and it be good that we can continue that by give our maiden speech on the same day . it be the privilege of my life to be elect to represent the community of Macclesfield , and I start by place on record my thank to the House staff for the warm welcome and support that they have give new member over the last few week . the Table Office , the Speaker ' s Office , the Doorkeepers and our catering and security colleague have all be phenomenal ; thank you so much . I understand that just by speak I have already outdo one of my predecessor , as those in the Library tell I that they be yet to find any evidence that a century ago William Brocklehurst say anything at all in the 12 year in which he represent Macclesfield . on the subject of predecessor , I wish sincerely to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor David Rutley , particularly for his public service on behalf of Macclesfield and our country . People of all political persuasion will tell you that he be a man of courtesy and kindness , and that certainly tally with my experience . after the momentous general election that we have early in the summer , lot of bright new member be frenetically try to make a name for themselves , so I need something to help I stand out from the crowd of new mp . the House Library think it have find it : I may well be the first Labour Member of Parliament to be call Tim . as I grow up in the 1990 , when Harry Enfield be on television , be call Tim be a bit of a cross to bear , so it be good to see that it have finally pay off . if be the first Tim be not enough , I will make do with be the first ever Labour Member of Parliament for Macclesfield . seventy - five year ago , my grandad crash his car in Macclesfield , and while hospitalise , he fall in love with a young irish nurse , my grandma Josephine , and my family ' s story in Macclesfield begin . I grow up in the constituency , and I be proud to call it home . from the Cheshire plain to the roll hill of the Peak district , it be a beautiful part of our country . indeed , nearly a third of the constituency lie within the Peak district national park . the town itself be famously home to a thriving silk industry , with 71 silk mill operate at one time , and I be proud to be wear a Macclesfield silk tie today . Macclesfield and its town and village — Disley , Poynton , Bollington , Prestbury and more — have make their contribution to our country with athlete , artist , scientist and writer of renown . although my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) can try to claim the band Joy Division , the mural of Macclesfield bear and breed Ian Curtis dominate our town , a reminder not only of his talent , but of the very real struggle that many people face with mental health . Macclesfield also host a sprawl AstraZeneca campus that employ more than 5 , 000 people and be crucial not just to my constituency , but to the economy of our country . at the election , it be a privilege to campaign and , importantly , listen to people ' s concern , aspiration and fear , many speak of the climate emergency and the need for great action . other insist on the need for electoral reform — a view that I share . universally , they worry about public service and the cost of living crisis , with the backdrop be widen inequality on a scale that be edwardian , unprecedented , and in my view , immoral . there be no doubt that we live in interesting time . during the last Parliament , colleague have to contend with a global pandemic that still cast its shadow across our country , but there be a feeling that the world be drift towards the rapid . every day , the brave man and woman of Ukraine fight for the life of their country , and these come week may prove critical in that war . in the middle east , innocent civilian bear the brunt of a tragic conflict , with a ceasefire prove frustratingly elusive , and across the world economic shock , climate extreme , and soar price be combine to create a food crisis of unprecedented proportion . at home , confidence in our political system be at a record low , and accord to the late british social attitude survey , as many as 58 % of people say that they " almost never " trust politician to tell the truth . in medieval time , Parliaments have moniker , such as the Mad Parliament , the Lawless Parliament , and the Merciless Parliament . how will we in this place be know as we face up to our responsibility in this Parliament ? I look forward to work with member from across the House to meet those responsibility , to act for the public good and to contribute thoughtfully without fear or favour . we must make this a place of public service , not self - service , and about the national interest , not self - interest , so that together , to borrow a phrase , we be a stand contradiction to people who wish to believe that only those with cold heart and twisted tongue can succeed in the world of politic . I call Rupert Lowe to make his maiden speech . Great Yarmouth be a constituency like no other . in many way , it feel two or three decade behind the rest of the country , but what may seem to be a criticism be in fact the complete opposite . countless other area that once , not too long ago , share Great Yarmouth ' s unique sense of community , have lose that . in Great Yarmouth , everybody know everybody , and if they do not know somebody , they know somebody who do . it hold a remarkable charm that be unlike anywhere else I have experience . my constituent care about their town , they care about their community , and they care about their country . it be , as Harry Redknapp would say , " a proper place " . during the European Championships , I can honestly say that I have never see so many England flag in my life than in Great Yarmouth — certain hon . member from across the Chamber may have find that experience to be a reminder of past indiscretion . as be customary , I would like to thank my predecessor , Brandon Lewis , for his contribution to the Great Yarmouth constituency over 14 year . it be a genuine honour to represent the UK ' s premier seaside tourist destination , narrowly beat Clacton and Skegness to the top spot , on a billing definitively decide by a straw poll of constituent on Great Yarmouth ' s famous Golden Mile . a particular fan of the attraction in the constituency be one Ann Widdecombe . take she on the world - famous " snail " rollercoaster during the election campaign be an experience she be unlikely to forget — and her back hold up rather well on the rickety up and down than my own ! we be bless with some of the UK ' s most glorious coastline , with Great Yarmouth , Caister , Gorleston , California , Hopton and more . as those who be familiar with the geology of the area will know , my constituency ' s border change on an almost monthly basis as swathe of land be reclaim by the sea , particularly in the charming village of Hemsby . while other coastal community have be rightly gift the defence they desperately need , the good people of Hemsby have be leave to fight the power of the sea . it have be a lose battle , and numerous constituent have lose their home with zero compensation . in fact , one resident tell I that his property be worth minus £ 15 , 000 due to demolition cost . I pledge to fight for Hemsby , and that be exactly what I be do . the funding criterion , as promise by a now Minister in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs on an election visit to the area , must be urgently change . we do not have time for the usual pontification ; we must act before any more of my constituency disappear into the sea . I be pleased to say that among other thing , I have already secure the reopening of the Hemsby beach public loo . decade ago , the ocean bring huge wealth to Great Yarmouth from both fish and oil . primarily know for its wildly successful herring fishing industry , at its peak , it be one of the most important fishing port in Europe , often refer to as the herring capital of the world . that wealth be steal from the people of Great Yarmouth and transfer overseas through our membership of the European Union . it be no surprise that my constituent overwhelmingly vote to leave the European Union . evidently , it be a constituency with fine judgment . it be sad that today , have be our large fishing port , only one fishing boat operate from Great Yarmouth , and there be no long a local fish processing industry . Great Yarmouth ' s local football club be affectionately know as the Bloaters . the Wellesley ground contain the old wooden football stand in the world . I be now the proud holder of a season ticket , which be an incredibly kind gift from the club ' s chairman follow the donation of my first month ' s parliamentary salary to the club — don ' t worry , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it have be appropriately declare . it be a ticket of perhaps less financial value than those that some other member will have declare , but it hold infinitely more real value for I . be elect as Great Yarmouth ' s MP be the proud moment of my professional life , narrowly beat take Southampton to the FA cup final in 2003 as chairman . sadly , we lose 1 - 0 to Arsenal that day , to a tidy Robert Pires finish . the town and its people have quite simply be let down and forget for too long , be at the end of the line , literally and metaphorically . my constituent look around their town , and they have see their once - boom home change beyond recognition . uncontrolle mass immigration have fail Great Yarmouth , as it have fail the entire country . just like the majority of the rest of the country , in 2010 they vote for low immigration . in 2015 , they vote for low immigration . in 2016 , they vote for low immigration . in 2019 , they vote for low immigration . what do the Conservatives do ? they allow immigration to soar , with no thought to the brutal consequence . in 2024 , Great Yarmouth also vote for low immigration . the difference this time be that I will voice those concern and fight as well I can to drastically reduce the unsustainable number of people settle in our country . the road be pack , the hospital be full , GP surgery be burst at the seam , and dentist be inaccessible — frankly , the system be break and mass immigration be largely responsible . Great Yarmouth have a long history of proudly welcome immigrant who come to the UK to work hard , integrate properly and contribute to the economy . the current chaos could not be far from that . we have local people , particularly woman , feel unsafe in their own town . we be tell that crime be down , but I do not believe it and the town certainly do not . we must be clear : the reporting of crime be down because many have lose faith that the police will act . I be determined to change that , and I be run a public awareness campaign on the importance of report crime . it be one that I think should be replicate nationally . yes , of course we need more police on the street , but without report crime , nothing will change . there be so much to resolve in Great Yarmouth , but treat the symptom can only be a temporary measure until the root cause of the issue — uncontrolled immigration — be tackle in Westminster . our whole system of governance be break . I have huge respect for member of this House who have enter with genuine experience from a career in business , medicine , the military or however else . sadly , we be a dwindle number , and the relentless rise of the career politician continue . from politic , philosophy and economic at Oxford , to special adviser , to parliamentary candidate , to MP — this well - trodden journey serve nobody but the traveller , and deprive the british people of the representative they deserve . many member of Parliament lack experience of the challenge face by people in the real economy . a day on my farm or some work experience in one of my contracting business would open their eye to the punish reality of what hard - work Brits go through every day , much of which emanate from do - goode legislation . I fear that people in Britain will not understand the damaging reality of socialism until they have experience it . the only difference between this Government and the last be that they may be more honest about what they intend to inflict on the british people . the political system serve nobody but itself . it be arrogant , out of touch and incompetent . that potent mix have deliver woeful Government after woeful Government . who suffer ? decent man and woman work hard to provide for their family . we need to back the risk - taker , back the wealth - creator and back the doer . as the great Prime Minister in many decade correctly say , " let we back the worker , not the shirker . " if we be to successfully change Britain , we need to change politic . the election of five Reform party mps , include I , be a politically seismic event in our two - party state . we be just get start and the wind of change be blow much hard . on Russia and the ukrainian situation , I think it be a tragedy for both those country , for Europe and for the world . in particular , it be a tragedy for those people who be needlessly die on both side . I echo what one of my colleague say about the support and help that the staff of Parliament have give to all of we new MPs . I would not call myself a young MP — I be a pensioner — but I thank they all very much indeed . I thank member for their contribution to this debate . in particular , I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , for her kind word about my service in the Foreign Office . indeed , I pay tribute to her : she do fine work on Iraq and Syria , and I be glad to work with she . I look forward to work with all of this House on matter of national security . I welcome the maiden speech that be make . my hon . friend the Members for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) and for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) be both funny , which be useful when I be be so dour at the Dispatch Box . I notice that the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) pay tribute to particular kind of experience — military , business , and so on — but he do elide the diplomat . give that there be many of they in the Box , I would like to say that he should take a look at the good work of the Foreign Office , because there be many hard - work officer who do their very good , and I be grateful to everybody in the House for recognise that . if I may , I will come back to some of the point raise by the other party . I regret that I may have to write to the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) about the specific scottish issue . I be grateful to the Minister for say he will respond to I in writing , which I accept , but I should also be clear — this be the mistake that previous Prime Ministers make — that scottish limited partnership be not a Scottish Parliament issue , but a Westminster reserve issue . I understand that , and I agree . I welcome the importance that the hon . Gentleman place in his comment on work together . I also believe that , on many of these issue , we be well together . some important point be raise about our partner in India and China in relation to Russia . I say to the shadow Minister that any evidence of chinese company provide military support to Russia would be damaging to China ' s international reputation , give its strong position on not be involve in the conflict . we will not hesitate to take action against anyone supply and fund Putin ' s war machine . on India , which be raise by the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , we regularly raise Russia ' s action in Ukraine with India . we do so most recently in a conversation between the Foreign Secretary and the indian Foreign Minister . we highlight the importance of tackle the shadow fleet . India be a key partner , and we be commit to work together across a whole range of issue . we underline to they how unreliable an energy partner Russia would be . the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford raise the tragic forceful deportation of , we believe , almost 20 , 000 ukrainian child , which be a matter of real concern to I and the rest of the ministerial team . as a member of the jointly lead canadian ukrainian initiative , along with 28 other state , the UK be provide funding to support the rehabilitation of child . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) make some kind comment . I be unsure whether they be for Minister Doughty or for I , but , as I be here , I will certainly accept they . he make important point about microchip and various other dual - use technology on which we be take action with other to try to address . in the interest of the House ' s time , I will write to he to give further detail . on the wide point about circumvention , I be grateful to the House for its support and recognise the widespread concern about other country do otherwise . we be send senior official to the United Arab Emirates , Kazakhstan , Uzbekistan , Kyrgyzstan , Georgia , Armenia , Turkey and Serbia to highlight circumvention risk and to offer technical support . we recognise that these issue be global in nature , so we have designate individual in Belarus , China , Iran , Serbia , Slovakia , Switzerland , Turkey , the Emirates and Uzbekistan . I will no doubt have another opportunity to update the House on our work in this area in due course . I thank the House for its support and urge it to support the motion . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2024 , ( SI , 2024 , no . 834 ) , date 29 July 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 30 July , be approve . sanction : Syria I beg to move , that the Syria ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2024 , ( SI , 2024 , no . 833 ) , date 29 July 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 30 July , be approve . this instrument amend the Syria ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) Regulations 2019 . the instrument be lay on 30 July use power provide by the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 and enter into force on 31 July . for clarity , the instrument be lay on 24 May under the previous Government . we support its aim , so we revoke it and re - lay it to provide additional time post election for the require parliamentary scrutiny . there be no amendment to the policy and the substance of the instrument be the same . with the conflict in Syria now in its 14th year , the humanitarian situation remain dire . a record 16 . 7 million people be estimate to be in humanitarian need , nine in 10 people in Syria be live in poverty , and nearly 13 million lack sufficient food . many more have be force to flee their home and be live in settlement and camp . our support for the syrian people be unwavering . the UK have spend over £ 4 billion to date — our large ever response to a single humanitarian crisis — and we continue to provide lifesave support to those in need . it be imperative that aid reach the most vulnerable and that UN agency , international organisation and non - governmental organisation have the support necessary for their work . the UK have engage with financial institution and humanitarian actor to fully understand and mitigate the impact of the humanitarian provision in our sanction legislation , include by issue general licence follow the earthquake in February last year . the UK have act to ensure that aid continue to reach those most in need . these amendment to the regulation will allow trusted organisation to focus on deliver aid , support efficient and effective humanitarian delivery and provide reassurance for those organisation and their service provider . they will ensure that we continue to meet our humanitarian objective while ensure that our sanction regime be robust . UK sanction be design to encourage the Assad regime to refrain from action , policy or activity that repress the civilian population in Syria . they also serve to encourage the regime to participate in good faith in negotiation for a political settlement in line with UN Security Council resolution 2254 and to bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict in Syria . this instrument amend the humanitarian exception to the petroleum measure contain in the 2019 regulation with the aim of improve the delivery of humanitarian aid in Syria . the amendment expand the eligibility for the humanitarian exception from solely UK - fund person to all organisation cover by UN Security Council resolution 2664 to the extent that they be capture by UK sanction . the extension will enable more organisation to benefit from the humanitarian exception . the instrument extend the regulation to ensure that they apply to those involve in the humanitarian delivery chain . the change ensure that the delivery chain of relevant person as outline in the regulation will benefit from be able to use that exception . that provide assurance to relevant delivery partner on the ground and to financial service provider when improve payment . the instrument also amend the 2019 regulation to authorise financial service provider of " relevant person " to use the humanitarian exception , remove the requirement for financial service provider to apply for individual licence to facilitate activity authorise by the exception . the change will also provide great assurance to both humanitarian organisation and their financial provider , reduce delay in payment . in addition , the instrument replace the exist notification requirement for " relevant person " use the humanitarian exception for petroleum prohibition in the 2019 regulation with a new requirement to notify the Treasury on an annual basis that they be involve in the provision of humanitarian assistance in Syria . the notification requirement will apply to relevant person conduct humanitarian assistance activity in Syria , but not to financial service provider , the UN , the International Committee of the Red Cross , the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies , the British Red Cross or downstream delivery partner . finally , the instrument make two furth , more minor amendment . first , there be a small amendment to the humanitarian fuel exception and a related exception for petroleum product for diplomatic and consular premise in the 2019 regulation . those exception be amend to refer to " acquire " fuel rather than " purchase " it . secondly , the instrument amend the record - keep requirement in the regulation with respect to trade licence to clarify that specify information be require where appropriate . that will ensure that correct record be keep for relevant licence . UK sanction on Syria continue to send a clear message to the regime and its supporter : we will not stand by while they commit serious human right abuse . the regulation ensure that the sanction will not hinder humanitarian aid effort . we will continue to work closely with the UN , like - minded state , humanitarian organisation and the financial sector to ensure that the sanction work in tandem with humanitarian effort and that the Assad regime and its ally and supporter bear responsibility for the devastation endure by the syrian people . I commend the regulation to the House . I call the shadow Minister . the people of Syria have suffer unimaginable horror since 2011 , first under Bashar al - Assad ' s brutal dictatorship and then at the hand of Daesh , al - Qaeda , Iranian - back militia and the Wagner Group . the syrian people have endure unforgivable cruelty and suffering , with over 6 million force abroad as refugee , 7 million displace in their own country and 90 % live within poverty . over half lack access to clean and safe water . it be a humanitarian catastrophe that stem from Bashar al - Assad ' s oppressive authoritarian rule and industrialise brutalisation of his own people . sadly , the earthquake in February 2023 cause further suffering and directly impact a further 9 million people . it be absolutely right that we continue to sanction Assad and his regime , but we must also ensure that much - need humanitarian aid be deliver . this instrument be initially propose before the election as a means of improve the humanitarian exemption from sanction for those provide vital aid to Syria . it will give humanitarian organisation access to fuel , ensure that they can carry out important work . I be therefore grateful to the Minister for re - table the instrument , which the Opposition will of course support . the sanction regime , deliver under the Conservative Government , rightly target those who have cause this appalling humanitarian disaster , not the rule - abide NGOs , international organisation and accredited individual help to alleviate the suffering . introduce an automatic humanitarian exemption , rather than by licence , and extend the 2023 earthquake exemption be request by humanitarian group through the tri - sector group . these change will now extend to fuel . of course , we will expect the Minister and his official to maintain clear protection to prevent the misuse of this exemption , and we will monitor its implementation . sadly , new crisis be emerge at an alarming rate , but we must never forget the people of Syria . Assad and his russian backer may be content to let the people of Syria suffer , but the UK have a proud humanitarian legacy , regardless of which party be in government . these change will help to ensure its continuation . on our Syria sanction regime , I ask the Minister to use his position to look into the proliferation of Captagon , a highly addictive amphetamine . the success of global sanction in cut off Assad ' s regime from funding have lead he to turn Syria into a narco - state , produce 80 % of the world ' s Captagon . in my view , Syria have become the Amazon warehouse for terrorist and state who behave like terrorist . there be some hope that the normalisation of relation between several arab country and the syrian regime might see that address . when in government , we oppose that normalisation , and I would be grateful if the Minister confirm that his Government will adopt that position . although Captagon cause the most damage in country neighbour Syria , it be start to affect those across the world . I be concerned that , have be discover in the Netherlands — my own Committee do an inquiry into this — we be start to see it in the UK . addiction and misery be now bankroll Assad ' s continued tyranny and indulgence of Putin ' s Russia . we must ensure that we take action on Captagon so that we be protect here in the UK . we can not forget Syria and the syrian people . anyone who have work on Syria know that we be haunt by our failure , the survivor we meet and the photo of those who be murder . rarely be Syria discuss in this place , since the shameful vote of 2015 , so I take this opportunity to request a few clarification from the Government on their policy . first , I ask the Minister to take forward and give his government ' s support for a new chemical weapon tribunal — a treaty - base court that will put on trial those guilty of such heinous inhumanity and deliver accountability and justice for those in Syria . likewise , I urge the Minister to keep his eye on Daesh , because we be see a re - emergence of that evil in the cave and the mountain along the border between Iraq and Syria . there be 153 attack in the first six month of the year , and we know that they be seek every opportunity . finally , I ask the Minister to use his voice and urge his office to speak up for those whom Assad seek to silence . Hope live on in Syria , as we have see from the woman - lead protest across the country as recently as August . we give our full support to this instrument — originally lay by the Conservative Government — which welcome and provide exemption for humanitarian group to access fuel under strict management system and which , we hope , will go some way towards address the misery that the syrian people have endure for too long , and support those who be work to alleviate that suffering . I echo what we have hear about the effect that this dreadful war have have on the people of Syria . we understand that 300 , 000 civilian have be kill since the war break out in 2011 , and more than 13 million people have be displace internally or have have to leave Syria as refugee . we have be talk this afternoon about sanction and about how we might tighten the noose on trade and on financial transaction . if we see the situation on the ground improve we might need to loosen that noose , but what be happen on the ground in Syria be still appal . More on that later . first , bilateral aid between the UK and Syria have be fall in recent year , from a high of £ 300 million in 2020 to £ 205 million the follow year , £ 158 million in 2022 and £ 150 million last year . we have see the halving of our bilateral humanitarian aid to Syria . I question whether one reason for that may have be co - option of humanitarian aid — a concern that be flag in a 2019 report by Human Rights Watch call " rig the System " , which point out that the syrian Government of al - Assad have co - opt reconstruction funding in Syria and have " develop a policy and legal framework that allow it to co - opt humanitarian assistance and reconstruction funding to fund its atrocity , advance its own interest " and to " punish those perceive as opponent " . this SI be specifically about carve - out for petrol for humanitarian worker . I be sure that the Government will have assure themselves that those humanitarian worker will not be siphon fuel for the syrian Government , but I ask the Minister to reinforce that reassurance when he respond . finally , we hear early that there have be strike in Syria . the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights have suggest that the strike , allegedly carry out by Israel , be on a programme to develop short and medium - range precision missile and drone . if that be so , it be the same site that be strike in 2017 when an israeli strike be suspect on a rebel - hold town in northern Syria . will the Minister confirm that , by support humanitarian group and organisation , we be not in any sense afford the Assad regime access to fuel to carry out his dreadful crime in Syria ? I call Charlie Maynard to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) and for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) , who give we very different view of their constituency , but be link by their love for they . I stand here today to represent the people of Witney . I be incredibly grateful to they for elect I to represent they , and I will do my good for they . I be also incredibly grateful to the people who help I get here . we have a fantastic team who work extremely hard , and I thank they all . I be also extremely grateful for my very large family up there in the Gallery — I love you all , too . until July , Witney have vote Conservative for 102 year . famous parliamentarian from Witney include Douglas Hurd and David Cameron . I owe David Cameron a backhand vote of thank , because some of his decision put I on the path to politic . I also thank Robert Courts , who work very hard for the constituency for the past eight year . our constituency be beautiful . it sit at the bottom of the Cotswolds , and it be full of market town such as Faringdon , Burford and Witney , which do well off the wool trade . they do more than trade it — they spin it , they weave it and they make it into beautiful blanket , which be famous throughout Europe from the middle age . then , the dastardly duvet come along and that be the end of it . at its good , Witney innovate . we have a lot of Methodist root in town ; the people share technology , and they care about welfare and social justice . if there be one theme that be keep go today throughout the constituency , it be that care . so many community group work so hard . one of the wonderful thing about be an MP and a candidate be get to see so much of they at first hand , whether it be the food bank , the larder and the fridge , the sport team , the day centre , the council or the church — you name it , it go on and on and on . that network of volunteer make the constituency tick . they be particularly stretch now because our public service be so underfunded and stretch . Witney be just 10 mile west of Oxford , which for many make it one of the reason it be so wonderful to live , work and play there . that cut both way . we have enormous pressure on housing . so many people have grow up there but can not afford to live there anymore . that be brutal . add to that be transport — in our wisdom , we tear up the railway 50 year ago and we be now stuck on the A40 , take more than an hour most day to get just those 10 mile between Witney and Oxford . that double down into health . we have great GP practice around the constituency , but our secondary healthcare be in Oxford , which be virtually impossible to get to . that cause an enormous amount of stress . we be try to get secondary healthcare out of that hub in Oxford and to Witney , where we can redevelop council - own land into well healthcare service , more social rent housing and well further education provision . for the past four year , I have work on a project to rebuild the railway link Carterton , Witney and Eynsham with Oxford . it be a huge project , but we now have an opportunity . one thing that will make it hard — and easy — be that our new Government have just say that West Oxfordshire must take 62 % more housing . that , by itself , would be a disaster and be too high a number . however , if we be clever we can do what our victorian forebear do : put housing around railway station and use that to fund the railway . that be what we be intent on do . that would connect Witney to Oxford in just 16 minute , a cut in travel time of 70 % . our river be our original transport link . they do very well for our blanket and quarry industry , but we have not return the favour and they be full of sewage . we be very lucky to have one of the good advocacy group in the country , Windrush Against Sewage Pollution , which have do a fabulous job of turn the light on Thames Water and really recognise how dire the situation be . Thames Water now have £ 18 billion of debt and £ 1 billion in cashflow . it be in breach of its operating licence , but be allow by this Government to operate with impunity . the soon the company be put into special administration , the well . our constituency play a key part in the defence of our country . we have the big airbase in the UK , at RAF Brize Norton just south of Carterton , and the nation ' s Defence Academy at Shrivenham in the south of the constituency . since world war one , the woman and man in my family have serve our country : they have fight for the Army , the Navy , the RAF , the Fleet Air Arm and the SAS . they have be award one mbe , two Distinguished Service Crosses , three Distinguished Service Orders and a Victoria Cross for their courage . one of the dso and the VC be award for save life rather than take they . that give I a lot of respect for how the people in our force serve we . at their good , the academy and our air force stand up for the british value of democracy , human right and the rule of law . here in this Chamber , we need to ensure that we also stand up for those value and do not sell weapon to dodgy regime . today ' s motion be about Syria . I fully support it , because we need to get more humanitarian aid in there . thirty year ago , I visit Syria and it be wonderful . after a chance meet one morning , I be invite to a wedding feast in the evening and the hospitality be fabulous . nine year ago , a two - year - old syrian boy be wash up dead on a british beach . this country ' s grief be enormous : there be a nationwide outpouring . almost by accident , my family end up take quite a few syrian refugee . they stay with we for over a year and we still stay in very close touch with they . that teach we that one key thing the Government could do be make it easy for their citizen to help refugee to integrate in our country and society . we really have not do that very well at all . the other thing it bring home to I be that when a Government fail their citizen , it can go very , very badly wrong . in our country , I think we be complacent about how unlikely some thing be ; that they will not happen and that thing will not go wrong . another trigger that bring I into politic be Brexit . I start a business when I be 25 . I build it , with colleague , over 24 year . it end up be a global business . we have nine office around the world , with seven in Asia , and 100 people . that be through thick and thin , and by hang on in there and trust people to get thing do . but when Brexit hit and , beyond that , we be take out of the single market and the custom union , my experience of business lead I to think , " holy cow , this be really bad news . this be disastrous for our economy . it will not sink we overnight , because we have a lot of thing go for we , but it be a slow puncture . " we see that today in our flat GDP figure , our flat investment figure and our chronically underfunde public service . I blame our previous Government for that , but I also look across the Chamber and I be shocked . what I see now be a new Government defend those disastrous Tory policy of be outside the single market and outside the custom union . I hear that we be pro - growth , but how do that add up ? it do not make any sense . I really hope — I say this in a constructive spirit — that we find a way to get out of that hole pretty quickly . we owe it to our country to do so . so please , I would love the new Government ' s help on that . the people of the Witney constituency put I here to listen , to learn — as anybody who be new in this Chamber know , there be an enormous amount to learn — and to speak up for they , but they also put I here to do thing . I still have to figure out how to get thing do here , but I look forward to work with member from all around the House to do that . to the people of Witney , I say " thank you again for vote I in to represent you . I will do my very good . " it be a real pleasure to follow the hon . member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) . I thank he for his excellent maiden speech . I do not agree with everything — such as the Brexit stuff , but that be by the way — but I be very pleased to hear his contribution . I be also very pleased to see his very large family in the Gallery . you ' ve be a busy boy , by the look of it . I would like to touch on a comment the hon . Gentleman make about the syrian relocation scheme , which be introduce by the previous Government . in my constituency , there be a big town call Newtonards . we take in six family and they be still there today . the scheme really work , because the people of Newtonards recognise that the people be desperate and need help . that bring together all the organisation : church of all denomination , together as one ; the housing executive , with responsibility for housing ; and voluntary and community group . the refugee be displace christian family from Syria and , if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to speak about they briefly . before the election , I have occasion to meet some of those syrian refugee . they now have job , have have child and have move into house . that have happen because the people of Strangford and Ards , like the people Witney and elsewhere , see the need and come together and respond . that , for I , be one of the wonderful thing about my constituency . so , I just want to make that comment to reinforce what the hon . Gentleman say about Witney in his maiden speech . I welcome the Minister to his place and I welcome his commitment . I suspect we will be in many debate together , as this be a subject matter in which I have an interest , and I look forward to that . his colleague on the Front Bench have have responsibility for similar subject matter and we have work together on many thing . I hope we will do the same . sanction be important , because throughout Syria there be pocket of conflict where Christians continue to be catch in the crossfire . I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , so this be a really important issue for I , as it be for many other member . we speak up for those with christian faith , those with other faith and those with no faith , because that be what we believe in , so it be really important to put these issue on the record . in many case , Christians be deliberately target . for example in Afrin , Turkish - back troop be report to be target Kurdish Christians . christian be particularly endanger in the Idlib province , which be still control by islamic militant . in the Al - Hasakah district in the north - east , turkish military and turkish - support opposition force be active . they always seem to pick the small ethnic and religious group . they abuse human right and the humanitarian aid , which be so important . I understand the difficulty that exist , but I ask the Minister whether it be possible to ensure that humanitarian aid do reach those small ethnic group in Syria , especially those in the north and the kurdish area — to ensure , give the human right abuse , religious persecution , murder , rape and physical abuse , that the aid get to the right people . convert to Christianity be also at risk throughout the country , but their situation be especially dangerous in the north - west and the north - east . the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) refer to drug abuse in Syria . I attend the prayer breakfast here when it be possible for I to do so ; it take place on Wednesdays , and I suspect that there will be one this Wednesday . a speaker from Syria come to address we at one of those event , and tell we that drug be rife in Syria , among all section of people . that , he say , have be encourage by the Russians , who seem to be involve in all sort of illegal activity in that country as well . it be important that we recognise the difficulty in Syria in general , but also recognise the ethnic and religious group who particularly need humanitarian help . in the past , the UK have have a strong relationship with Syria , but I ask the Minister : what can we do to help those group , apart from impose sanction ? I fully support the sanction and understand the reason for they . I know that , if we be to address human right abuse and maintain the support that we give to ethnic and religious group in Syria , we need to combat the brutal violence that the syrian Government be perpetrate against those people . my question to the Minister be a simple one : what more can we do to help Syrians who be suffer human right abuse and subject to persecution for their religious belief , and to help the woman and child and give they hope ? we in the House always wish to give hope and , if it be possible , Minister , I think we would all appreciate hear your thought on how we be to do that . order . before I call the Minister , may I please remind member not to use the word " you " — that mean I ! — and , specifically , not to refer to colleague by name . I call the Minister to wind up the debate . I thank member for their contribution . let I address some of the important question that they have raise , particularly in relation to Captagon , chemical weapon , and whether we have achieve the right balance between sanction and humanitarian aid . I will also deal briefly with some of the point raise about freedom of religious belief . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) for his maiden speech , and associate myself in particular with his comment about the Chamber be a confusing place for a newbie — and if it be I who make those mistake , Madam Deputy Speaker , I apologise . we be closely monitor the regime ' s link with Captagon , as you will know — I be sorry ; as the hon . Member will know . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . in March 2024 , we co - host a conference with Jordan and we be keep the matter under close review . I should be happy to write to the hon . member with further detail , because it be of real concern . also of concern , obviously , be the chemical weapon situation in Syria . last week , I be pleased to meet the director general of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons , and to make a further voluntary contribution on Syria specifically in relation to the significant problem that it pose in respect of chemical weapon . as for the concern about get the balance right — would the Minister be kind enough to write to I with the detail of that voluntary contribution , so that I understand fully what contribution be make ? I should be happy to do so . I can assure the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) that no assistance will be provide directly to the Government of Syria , and that we go to great length to ensure proper compliance with our sanction regime . the hon . Member also refer to the strike in Syria . the protract conflict clearly pose risk of other regional tension be play out , but we have make it clear to all party that further escalation in the middle east must be avoid at all cost , and be in no one ' s interest . I understand and welcome the fact that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and I will no doubt face each other across the aisle in debate on many issue , and I recognise his personal commitment to freedom of religious belief . we have provide , I believe , £ 14 million of assistance in respect of human right monitoring in the conflict in Syria , I know how desperate some of the human right issue be in the country , and we will continue to keep they under close review . I hope and trust that the House will support the regulation , and I thank member for that . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Syria ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2024 , ( SI , 2024 , no . 833 ) , date 29 July 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 30 July , be approve . transport I beg to move , that the draft renewable Transport Fuel Obligations ( sustainable Aviation Fuel ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 24 July , be approve . I want to take a moment to pay tribute to my former constituent Ken Eastham , who die recently at the age of 96 . he serve the people of Blackley and Broughton in this House from 1979 to 1997 . he know I as a child , and be delighted that I become a Member of Parliament . he work diligently on behalf of his constituent . I will remember he , his late wife Doris , with whom I keep in contact , and his family in my prayer tonight . as a fuel that can be use in exist aircraft , sustainable aviation fuel , or SAF , be one of the most effective way of start to decarbonise flight . the greenhouse gas emission associate with the use of SAF be 70 % less than those from fossil jet fuel on a life - cycle basis . this Government recognise the urgency of the global climate challenge , and the opportunity that be available from lead on the development of these technology . it be a core part of our mission to make the UK a clean energy superpower , and it be one of the many step that we be take to decarbonise aviation , which include our plan for airspace modernisation . the SAF mandate will support the decarbonisation of the aviation industry by create demand for SAF in the UK . the scheme have be develop over several year , during which there have be two formal consultation and significant stakeholder consultation . in July this year , we confirm the detail of the propose SAF mandate set out in the statutory instrument , and that be receive positively by stakeholder . the SAF mandate be one of several Government initiative to support the development , production and use of SAF in the UK . the advanced fuel fund , for example , be currently support 13 UK plant with £ 135 million of grant funding . additionally , the Government be introduce a revenue support certainty mechanism Bill , which be include in the King ' s Speech and will support SAF producer who be seek to invest in new plant in the UK . it will incentivise investment in UK SAF production , help to drive growth across the UK , secure the supply of British - make SAF , and maintain the UK ' s position as a global leader . alongside the potential for SAF to reduce carbon emission on a life - cycle basis — compare to that of traditional jet fuel — there be significant economic benefit associate with the development of a domestic saf industry . industry research estimate that such development could generate up to 60 , 000 new job by 2050 , add up to £ 10 billion gross value add per annum . that support our growth mission to kick - start economic growth across the UK . the introduction of a SAF mandate mark an important step forward for the decarbonisation of the aviation sector . it will provide a long - term incentive for SAF use in the UK by set a guarantee level of demand , demonstrate the UK ' s world - lead commitment to SAF uptake . it will also provide clarity for investor : a clear signal to develop SAF production facility and more advanced SAF technology in the UK and globally . crucially , the mandate could reduce aviation emission by up to 2 . 7 megatonne of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2030 , and by up to 6 . 3 megatonne of CO2 equivalent in 2040 . decarbonise transport be a key focus for this Government . it be central to the delivery of the UK ' s cross - economy climate target , and directly support the Prime Minister ' s mission to accelerate our journey to net zero . deliver greener transport be also one of the five priority that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport have set out for the Department . this statutory instrument will deliver on our manifesto pledge to secure the UK aviation industry ' s long - term future by promote sustainable aviation fuel . it will impose an annual sustainable aviation fuel obligation on every company that supply jet fuel over a certain threshold in a specified period . the SI will operate a tradeable certificate scheme , whereby the supplier of SAF be reward in proportion to its greenhouse gas emission reduction . to be eligible for certificate , the supply SAF must meet strict sustainability criterion , include that it must be a residual waste or residue - derive biofuel , a recycled carbon fuel , a low - carbon hydrogen fuel or a power - to - liquid fuel . the certificate can be use to discharge a supplier ' s obligation or sell to other supplier . if this statutory instrument be approve , the SAF mandate will take effect on 1 January 2025 . the SAF mandate will require 2 % of jet fuel to be make from sustainable source in 2025 , 10 % in 2030 and 22 % in 2040 . it be one of the world ' s most ambitious framework to drive demand for SAF . a successful and resilient SAF industry will need a range of technology and feedstock to meet increase demand . the SAF mandate drive the diversity of technology and feedstock in two main way . first , we will create space for more advanced fuel by set a future cap on fuel that will be limit by feedstock supply . fuel derive from segregated oil and fat be know as hydroprocessed ester and fatty acid . we recognise that HEFA will make an important contribution to meet the SAF mandate , particularly in the early stage of the mandate . HEFA can contribute 100 % of the SAF demand require under the mandate in 2025 and 2026 . the cap will then gradually tighten , decrease to 71 % in 2030 and 35 % in 2040 . the mandate will still allow around 1 million tonne of hefa - derive SAF to be supply each year in the UK from 2035 . secondly , to accelerate the development of advanced fuel , a specific obligation on supplier to supply power - to - liquid fuel will be introduce . power - to - liquid fuel have a low risk of feedstock competition and other negative environmental impact . from 2028 , the power - to - liquid obligation will be set at 0 . 2 % of total jet fuel demand , increase to 3 . 5 % in 2040 . fuel supplier will be able to meet their SAF mandate obligation in three way : they can supply SAF and earn certificate , buy certificate from other who have supply fuel , or pay a buy - out price . the buy - out mechanism will apply to both the main obligation and the power - to - liquid obligation , which will operate as a method of compliance if there be insufficient SAF supply in the market . this SI set out the buy - out price , which represent a significant incentive to supply SAF to the UK market . they be set at a level that encourage the supply of SAF over the use of the buy - out and set a maximum cost for the scheme , thereby deliver a greenhouse gas emission reduction at an acceptable cost . as I have mention , for fuel to be eligible for certificate , it must align with strict sustainability criterion and be make from sustainable waste or residue . SAF produce from food , feed or energy crop will not be allow . supplier must therefore report information to the mandate administrator to demonstrate compliance with the sustainability criterion for each application . the mandate administrator will have the power to not issue certificate if sufficient evidence be not provide . it will also have the power to revoke certificate if inaccurate or fraudulent information be provide , and to issue civil penalty to supplier for lack of compliance . the information that fuel supplier provide must be independently verify before supplier can apply for SAF certificate . to ensure that the design of the SAF mandate reflect the late technological and commercial development on SAF , there will be continuous monitoring of trend , and formal review will be conduct and publish every five year , with the first review carry out by 2030 . to support fuel supplier , the administration of the SAF mandate be closely align with the administration of the renewable transport fuel obligation , which currently obligate supplier of road fuel in a very similar way . the Government recognise that sector such as aviation be vital for achieve economic growth , shape the future of clean energy and deliver for our community . the development of the SAF mandate , alongside other priority such as modernise our airspace , be a key part of this Government ' s ambitious and pragmatic approach to decarbonise transport and promote economic growth , ensure that the UK continue to lead the way on SAF globally . I commend this order to the House . I call the shadow Minister . in respond to this debate on the renewable Transport Fuel Obligations ( sustainable Aviation Fuel ) Order 2024 , may I say at the outset that the transition to sustainable fuel be a topic that have have my interest for many year ? some may even say that I be very capable of become a complete bore on the subject , but I will not push the limit too far this evening . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) know that all too well ; we both serve on the Transport Committee in the last Parliament . our " fuel the Future " report champion sustainable and synthetic fuel , and I have put it into practice — in my case , on the road , rather than in the air , in a classic Land Rover power by synthetic fuel — during my past two summer surgery tour . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . there be a clear and undeniable role for such fuel across all transport mode in our path to 2050 . aviation be possibly the most difficult to de - fossilise and decarbonise , but it be also ahead of the curve , because sustainable and wholly synthetic fuel be an innovation that enable everyone to continue do what they want to do — fly off on holiday or to see family , go on a business trip or general motoring — in a clean and eventually de - fossilised , carbon - neutral way . we be not reinvent the wheel , but reinvent the fuel . I assure the House that the opposition be not look to oppose this statutory instrument or divide the House on it — quite the opposite , as it be a continuation of plan set out by the previous Government . the development of sustainable aviation fuel be one of six key measure in the last Government ' s jet zero strategy , which support the growth of sustainable aviation fuel in our United Kingdom . the cost - benefit analysis produce by the Department for Transport before the general election suggest that the SAF industry could add more than £ 1 . 8 billion to the economy and create over 10 , 000 job in the country . a gradual transition to SAF be the correct way to go ; we should require 2 % of UK jet fuel to be make from sustainable source in 2025 , 10 % in 2030 and 22 % in 2040 , and that should be incentivise through the award of tradeable certificate with a cash value . that say — it be rare that I make this comparison — the UK target for 2040 fall short of that set by the European Union , which be 34 % . the Conservative Government recognise that SAF may be more expensive than traditional jet fuel in the intermediate term . our plan include a review mechanism to help manage price and minimise the impact on ticket fare for passenger . my first question to the Minister be : can the Government reassure the House that the impact on passenger will be keep to a minimum , and can we ensure that they be not foot the bill ? provide that sufficient SAF be available , any increase in air fare as a result of SAF will fall well within the range of the usual fluctuation in price that we see every year , and the previous Government have plan in place to prevent any major hike . can the Government confirm that they too will guarantee that there will be no major hike in price , so that we can transition to net zero in an affordable way , take people along with we ? the Conservatives kick - start the UK SAF industry by allocate £ 135 million through our advanced fuel fund , which be fund 13 project to reach completion and support our ambition to ensure that five plant be under construction by 2025 . will the Government provide an update on those project , as they will be vital in help we to move towards use sustainable fuel ? I urge the Minister to focus thought on how to ensure that the UK be a power hub for esaf — to clarify , that is 100 % synthetic aviation fuel — and to gently kick the tyre on whether we be progress the technology as quickly as be humanly , financially and scientifically possible . we have significant player in this space in the UK , such as Zero Petroleum , which sit on the jet zero council and , indeed , hold a 2021 Guinness world record for " first aircraft power by synthetic fuel " . over the summer , I visit Zero Petroleum ' s plant , where it produce engineering - level synthetic fuel , include aviation fuel , to hear about its progress and to well understand the obstacle in its way . it be essential that such innovator be empower to grow , develop their fuel and provide green solution and value to our economy . power - to - liquid SAF have a sub - mandate start in 2028 . we will reach 0 . 5 % SAF by 2030 and 3 . 5 % by 2040 ; that be slow and less ambitious than the European Union ' s figure of 10 % by 2040 . some expert have say that this suggest that the UK have a more cautious approach to power - to - liquid , and that the United Kingdom ' s strategy focus on monitor progress under the mandate , and on we have the potential to revise target depend on technological advance . where the SAF mandate , and the statutory instrument , could go far in future iteration be clear . accord to the explanatory memorandum , if subsidised hydrogen be use to make esaf , under the hydrogen production business model support scheme , SAF certificate can not be claim against the mandate . without HPBM support , there be the risk that the cost of green hydrogen will be far too high for esaf to be produce at a competitive price in the UK . indeed , there be even the risk that the esaf production cost will be above the esaf mandate buy - out price . if the cost be above the buy - out price , that will mean that no UK esaf plant will get build , so all the UK ' s esaf demand will be fulfil by foreign producer . the HPBM be need to bring down the cost below the buy - out price under the SAF mandate . both support under the HPBM and the revenue certainty mechanism be need for UK esaf project to be bankable — for example , credit or potentially subsidy stacking need to be explicitly allow . this si be clearly supportive of the power - to - liquid pathway . however , it would be prudent for the Government to express an intent to financially support domestic esaf technology developer , such as Zero Petroleum or OXCCU — as oppose to project integrator — in order to give a boost to this much need industry in the UK , as well as help the country to benefit from the vast export potential of the technology . that could be through dedicated power - to - liquid technology grant , such as fuel synthesis , direct air capture specifically for fuel , and / or equity funding — for example , through the UK Infrastructure Bank . a further anomaly be that the Aerospace Technology Institute , which be UK Government - fund , be not permit to deploy fund to power - to - liquid technology . I put it to the Minister that that should be correct . we can be a powerhouse in the United Kingdom for SAF . the new Government be right to continue with the path set by the previous Conservative Government , so we support the motion , but the potential for the future be huge , and in the spirit of get this right , I urge the Minister to consider the point that I have outline , and to supercharge our great country ' s role in this technology . rise — before I call the next speaker , I remind member that it be helpful for the Chair — not least I personally , but there will be other Deputy speaker later — if you bob up and down . even if I have your name on a list , it be helpful if you indicate that you wish to speak . I will not detain the House too long — [ interruption . ] Hooray ! I just want to make a couple of point . as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , indicate , we both serve on the Transport Committee in the last Parliament , and the Committee do quite a detailed inquiry on the sustainability of fuel in all sector . we make several recommendation , and I do not believe that there be a cigarette paper — perhaps that be a non - pc term — between the two side of the House on the issue , but I want to ask a couple of question . this subject be really complicated and be plague with acronym — HEFA , SAF , ATF , esaf , HPBM , Jet Zero . I will not be tempt into aviation pun , but there be some important stat . as the Minister state , estimate suggest that the sustainable aviation fuel industry could create up to 60 , 000 job by 2050 — the shadow Minister say that there would perhaps be 10 , 000 new job , but that be in a long timeframe . the shadow Minister also say that the SAF industry could contribute as much as £ 1 billion to the UK economy , but by 2050 , it could contribute as much as £ 10 billion , so it be clearly a very important sector . I be concern about ensure that sustainable aviation fuel under this mandate be require to meet the strict sustainability standard . we must ensure that they be green fuel , and that there be a stage progression towards jet zero — we have hear what that be : 2 % from 2025 , 10 % by 2030 and 22 % by 2040 — and we really must ensure that the green fuel be responsibly source from the most sustainable location , preferably in the United Kingdom . we have a debate last week about the launch of GB Energy and the importance of not export the job create through our effort on decarbonisation . will GB Energy play a role in some of these new technology ? we may well develop a hydrogen fuel cell that can produce green hydrogen much more cheaply , but in the meantime , to plug the gap , we must ensure that effort be make to onshore as many of the job and benefit of this exciting opportunity as possible . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I sense that there be a great deal of consensus across the House on this statutory instrument . there be consensus that the aviation sector be one of the hard to decarbonise , and probably also that the new technology that be be propose — SAF , in its different iteration — need a great deal of technological knowledge . however , the principle of take the first step towards create the SAF mandate — of the requirement for SAF to meet 2 % of total jet fuel demand from 1 January , and of increase that on a linear basis , to 10 % by 2030 and to 22 % by 2040 — have no opposition , and we will absolutely support the Government in that effort . Virgin Atlantic have already demonstrate that a plane can fly across the Atlantic on 100 % SAF , but that be just one flight , and there be hundred of flight every day . that be the challenge . I congratulate Virgin Atlantic on this groundbreaking achievement but we really need to see how industry , the Government and indeed everybody who be develop new technology can produce sustainable aircraft fuel at the scale that be need . this need a great deal of investment . we know that biofuel be not a long - term solution , as they compete with food production . SAF from waste , the next generation of SAF , be not a long - term solution either . it be obviously part of the solution , but as the shadow Minister have point out , the real challenge be to get to the third generation saf — that is , synthetic fuel . we need to develop they as soon as possible , and they need a great deal of electricity . whatever we say about this , direct air capture need a great deal of electricity . produce hydrogen in a sustainable way — that is , get to green hydrogen — will also need a great deal of electricity . the crunch in all this be : where be all that renewable energy come from , unless we be ultimately overproduce renewable energy ? I believe that GB Energy will have a big say in this and will be crucial in develop all the renewable energy that will ultimately help we to decarbonise the aviation sector . this be really the challenge . while I welcome the kick - start of a journey to net zero in aviation , the 10 % to 22 % mandate between 2030 and 2040 be a concern for the Liberal Democrats . we want to get to net zero by 2045 , but have plane still run on 78 % fossil fuel be just not good enough . the UK have the third large aviation network in the world and the second large aerospace manufacturing sector . almost 1 million UK job be directly or indirectly support by the aviation sector . the future of the aviation industry with SAF be obviously a wonderful opportunity and challenge . make the right choice on SAF will ensure that the UK can continue to be a global leader , and I think that we be as one across the House in want this to happen in order to make the UK the global leader in this area . it be only right that we take these step , which support decarbonisation and also create the job that we need in the future . what be important be that the Government collaborate with the aviation fuel supplier to ensure that this initiative really succeed . I would like to hear a little more detail from the Minister about how the Government will work alongside supplier to make this a long - term success . as I have say , we welcome this , but there be other example of what we can do in the meantime to decarbonise the sector . for example , we could ban short - haul domestic flight on journey that can be do by rail in less than 2 . 5 hour . such a ban already exist in France , so it would be good if the Government at least look at this . the cost of flying must be link to the environmental cost . it be ridiculous that I can , at least on some journey , fly 100 mile to a european city for less than it cost I to go by train from Bath to London . the liberal Democrats would focus on those who fly the most to reduce the unfair burden on household who fly only once or twice a year . plus , we would impose a new super - tax on private jet flight and remove vat exemption for private , first - class and business - class flight . to conclude , while we welcome today ' s introduction of the SAF mandate on 1 January , I urge the Government to review the target set from 2030 to 2040 and to be more ambitious than what they be propose today , so that by 2040 a much high percentage of aviation fuel come from sustainable aircraft fuel than the 22 % that be currently propose . I call Steve Race to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I take this opportunity to put on record my congratulation to you on your election and to pay tribute to the staff of the entire House , who have work so hard to make we all comfortable and able to get on with our job in this very complicated and complex place ? I pay tribute to those who make their maiden speech in previous debate today , include my hon . friend the Members for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) and for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) on this side of the House , and the hon . member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) on the Liberal Democrats Benches . give the hon . member for Witney ' s reference to the wool trade , and give that Exeter ' s wealth in the middle age be build on the wool trade , with the wool be bring down from Dartmoor , it be entirely possible that our two place have significant trading link in the past . I be delighted to give this maiden speech as the new Member for Exeter — only the third in over half a century . in his own maiden speech , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , who be here early today , state that Lincoln be the old parliamentary seat in the country , establish in 1265 . exeter , another great cathedral and university city , be by comparison a mere whippersnapper , with our seat be establish in 1295 . of the many member who have represent Exeter in the subsequent seven century , my immediate predecessor , Sir Ben Bradshaw , need little introduction . he serve the country diligently throughout his 27 year as a Member , include a decade as a Minister . elect in the 1997 Labour landslide , he gain early notice as one of the first out gay man ever to be elect to the Commons . after a notorious campaign , Exonians in their wisdom rightly and roundly reject the outrageous homophobia of his opponent , and I and many other here today be among the many proud successor of his trailblaze role . Ben love our city , and the city take he to its heart . he be re - elect six further time , and even this July , despite no long be the candidate , he be as active knock on door as he have ever be and as popular as ever . I might have be have a particularly difficult conversation on a doorstep , but the face of even the most hardened and sceptical voter would light up as Ben march past in his canvassing uniform of cargo short and a check shirt , usually whistle the theme tune from " the Great Escape " . hug be exchange , selfie take and heartfelt thank express . he be almost universally accept as have do exeter proud . he have certainly be a friend and mentor to I over nearly two decade , and I thank he for that . Ben take particular pride in the turnaround in Exeter ' s education under his watch , something to which , as MP , he make a huge contribution . by 2010 , not only have every single state secondary school in Exeter be rebuild , but a new leadership culture have be establish where low attainment become unacceptable for our young people in every single part of the city . from have some of the bad state secondary school in the country , Exeter secondary school become some of the most improved , to which the most recent exceptional GCSE result bear testimony . exeter can now also boast one of the good further education college in the country — again , as our recent a - level and t - level result show — a vital but , in much of Britain , badly neglect element in provide wide opportunity for young people , include those who choose alternative route into work . as a school governor at Willowbrook primary school in Exeter , which serve one of our most economically deprive neighbourhood , I also pay tribute from first - hand experience to the primary school teacher everywhere , who go above and beyond to give their young child the very good start in life . this turnaround in Exeter ' s education system do not happen by accident . it take hard work , strong leadership and a collaborative culture . I would like to thank some of our leader for everything they have do to give our young people well life chance in Exeter . they include Moira Marder at the Ted Wragg Trust , John Laramy at Exeter College and Molly Marlow at Willowbrook primary school . and of course , I want to pay tribute to the politician , include former Devon county councillor Saxon Spence and the then Schools Minister Lord Adonis , who have the vision and the ability to deliver for Exeter . exeter ' s stand in learning go beyond our school system . next year , the University of Exeter celebrate the 70th anniversary of its royal charter . in that time it have grow to be an outstanding institution , now with well over 30 , 000 student , but it build on a tradition of an unbroken history of learning and academia stretch back at least to the 10th century . in Exeter cathedral rest the Exeter Book , an exquisite anthology of anglo - Saxon poetry and riddle that be still the large know collection of Old English literature . it be recognise by UNESCO as one of the world ' s principal cultural artefact , make exeter a UNESCO city of literature . today , five of the world ' s top 21 climate scientist be UK base and all of they work for our globally renowned University of Exeter and the Met Office . along with these two institution and a grow ecosystem of business , Exeter be home to a large and ever - grow research and innovation base that be at the forefront of combat and mitigate the effect of climate change . it have become fashionable in some circle to denigrate our university . I reject this entirely : they stand as beacon of intellectual excellence , the future success of our knowledge economy and the hope of wide educational opportunity for many people . a good education be what help I to become a Member of Parliament . I grow up in a council house with my mum , who spend her entire childhood in care , and I be the first in my family to go to university , so I pledge to work with all our education leader to make sure that every young person in Exeter have the good education to help they to reach their potential . I want this Labour Government to deliver an equivalent leap forward in educational opportunity that their predecessor achieve for their time in 1945 , 1964 and 1997 . in relation to this debate , Exeter University be home to the Centre for Future Clean Mobility , a partnership with business to develop low emission power system for the aerospace and automotive sector . our university be also world lead in genomics research . one of the main reason I be in politic , as a Labour MP , be my sister . she be bear when I be 10 , and when she be a year old , she be diagnose with Hurler syndrome , a rare genetic condition with no cure . give a life expectancy of around five year , she finally die two day short of her 10th birthday . much of her life be spend be care for by the NHS and our local child ' s hospice , and I will be eternally grateful for everything they do to give we so much more time with she than we expect . at the time of my sister ' s birth , we understand genetic condition but do not yet have the tool to help . the human genome be finally map just a year before she die , and that same year the first enzyme replacement therapy trial for her condition commence in the UK . People bear today with my sister ' s condition have a range of treatment option to help to make their life more comfortable and more fulfilling . I be particularly proud that Exeter University , in partnership with our local NHS trust , be at the forefront of this new wave of innovation . we know that scientific research and innovation , whether on tackle climate change or in medical advance , will make the life of people in this country and around the world well , but the Government have to recognise the vital role of our university in economic growth and take advantage of the many opportunity for partnership with the NHS and across the public sector . I know that this Government will understand the need to ensure that the UK continue to be at the forefront of scientific endeavour ; and , as a pro - european , I believe that this be where Britain can make a huge contribution , work with our european friend and partner despite the tragedy of Brexit . I also ask that Ministers recognise that Exeter and the wide south - west have the talent and the institution in which to invest to ensure that the UK remain at the cutting edge of UK and european innovation . to succeed in these endeavour we also have to recognise that diversity be a strength , so build community together on the principle of equality for everyone be vital to our success . in Exeter , the university and the local council play an important role in bring people together . we have a thrive mosque and muslim community . we have welcome hundred of ukrainian and hongkonger family over recent year , and we have large and grow kurdish , afghan and nigerian community , among other . everyone bring something new and positive to our city , and I love nothing more than our annual respect festival — a celebration of all our many community — and our Pride parade . Inclusive Exeter , a community interest company , also play an important role in bring community together . exeter have become a true beacon of live well together . it be a privilege and an honour to represent all the people of Exeter in this place , and I thank they for their vote of confidence in send I here . I also thank my local activist and , of course , my family and friend , some of whom be in the Gallery , for all their support over the year . without they I would not be here . exeter be a happy and optimistic place , and I hope to do it proud by serve it as conscientiously and as successfully as my distinguished predecessor . I call Lee Dillon to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) on his maiden speech . my hometown of Thatcham be record in " the Guinness Book of Records " in 1990 as the country ' s old continuously inhabit settlement , date back some 3 , 000 year , although it be not quite a parliamentary seat . I pay my respect and tribute to his sister . I will also reference my sister and her reliance on the NHS . I have be in the Chamber for many maiden speech , and I have be impress by they all . I congratulate those member on share their passion and their local knowledge . Newbury have return a Member of Parliament since 1835 but , follow the recent boundary change , the constituency have lose the south bank of the Thames at Streatley and village include Compton , West Ilsley and , pertinent to I , Hampstead Norris , the village of my grandparent , but I know they be safe in the stewardship of the hon . member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) . however , we have retain our market town of Newbury , Thatcham and Hungerford , alongside our beautiful village of Lambourn , Peasemore , Inkpen , Hermitage , Chieveley and Cold Ash , where I go to primary school , to name but a few . my constituency have a proud racing heritage , with Lambourn train some of the world ' s good racehorse and Newbury host one of the most prestigious horse race in the calendar . in Hungerford you can spend the afternoon antique shopping , and in Thatcham you can visit one the large inland reed bed in southern England , home to internationally important specie . we be also home to Vodafone , one of the global leader in telecommunication . Xtrac in Thatcham supply Formula 1 component , and Stryker be one of the world ' s lead medical technology company . away from cut - edge technology , we also have : traditional craftsmanship at company like Benchmark in Kintbury , which have be build and design furniture for over 40 year ; delightful country home like Welford Park , which be home to " the great british Bake Off " ; and one of the most unique and beautiful theatre in the country , the watermill at Bagnor . and , of course , we be support by many great charity : Greenham Common Trust , the Community Furniture Project , eight Bells for Mental Health , local almshouse and , sadly , West Berkshire food bank and Newbury soup kitchen , which be need to help a grow number of local resident . we also enjoy be surround by the area of outstanding natural beauty and 200 of the most precious chalk stream in the country . in give our maiden speech , we all like to claim the beauty of our own area , but the author Bill Bryson have it spot on and may be able to stop future disagreement in the Chamber . in " the Road to little Dribbling " he write : " there isn ' t a landscape in the world that be more artfully work , more lovely to behold , more comfortable to be in than the countryside of Great Britain . it be the world ' s large park , its most perfect accidental garden … all we have to do be look after it . " as a member of a political party with a proud heritage of stand up for the environment , I can assure hon . member and my constituent that I will do my bit in this place to make sure that we do look after it . the decision that I believe will conclude this debate , give the cross - party support , will contribute to that ideal . I welcome the propose change . as the Member for Newbury , I will uphold our tradition and protect our environment , because without they the Newbury constituency would not be what it be — a balance between our environment , our tradition and our ability to innovate . these be also support by my predecessor . my immediate predecessor Laura Farris — strangely , I see she in Central Lobby just before come to the Chamber — deliver meaningful change in this House on sexual abuse and violence against woman . she secure new law on sexual violence in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 and campaign for tough sentence for fatal domestic abuse . it be a further credit to she that the handover to I be as smooth as one could have hope for . I wish Laura and her family all the good for the future , and I be sure she will continue to make a difference . Richard Benyon , now Lord Benyon , serve Newbury from 2005 to 2019 and have always be open and approachable , offer I some early advice when I be first elect . the liberal Democrat David Rendel hold the seat follow a then record - break by - election — my party be rather good at those — from 1993 to 2005 , and I run with he in my home ward back in 2007 , start my electoral journey in West Berkshire . all three predecessor care deeply about Newbury and West Berkshire , as I do , too , but in new time there be new challenge . the Royal Berkshire hospital in Reading be in great need of replacement , and I look forward to a swift review of the new hospital programme . the West Berkshire community hospital in Newbury be willing to do more so that diagnostic service can be provide locally . without the NHS , my sister , Michelle , would not be here today . we need to cherish it , fund it and modernise it . despite our apparent wealth , we have pocket of poverty in Newbury . as I allude to early , we be see an increase in the use of food bank and soup kitchen , the cost of living be still hurt and the propose removal of the winter fuel allowance will compound that problem even more , despite our good effort to get those who be entitle on to pension credit . House price have soar and be now over 10 time the average salary , increase demand for rented home and add pressure to housing waiting list . the ability to have a warm and secure home be the foundation of a settle life . child learn well , crime be low and community cohesion be strong when people have a settle community . I have work in the social housing sector for the last 14 year . we must do more to deliver much need home for social rent . I wish to conclude my speech by give a small round of thank . first , I thank my constituent for entrust I with the honour of represent we here , and my local team for engage in so many positive conversation on the doorstep . I will endeavour to pay back their support with my deed in the House . to my wife , Gemma , and my child , Oliver , James and Eleanor , I say thank you for your constant support and love that have allow I to fulfil my dream of be the Member of Parliament for my home . as a 16 - year - old , I arrange a visit to Parliament . as we be be show around the Chamber , we come past the Opposition Front Bench and a school friend cheekily sit down . I will not use parliamentary privilege to name he but he encourage I to do the same . you will be pleased to hear that I decline , Madam Deputy Speaker . however , I say that I would sit there if I ever get elect . well , 25 year later , I can now rightly take my place on the famous green Benches , so some dream do come true . as the son of a trade union official , I suspect I be always go to end up in a role where I could speak truth to power . I thank my father , Raymond , for instill in I a sense of fairness and a belief that we can make change happen . my mother , Geraldine , and step - father , Colin , have support I in every election I have stand in — I thank they for be there for I , keep I honest and remind I that it be nice to be important , but it be more important to be nice . I call James McMurdock to make his maiden speech . thank you for the opportunity to address the House , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member who have already speak today , whether about fall foul of a wasp , what lever to pull — I can certainly empathise with that — or genuine courage , which we can all agree be absolutely necessary in this House . I thank they all for their word . I start by thank my predecessor , Stephen Metcalfe . I extend to he my gratitude , not least for his gentlemanly conduct throughout the campaign . he be gracious and dignified throughout , so it be easy to understand why he be , as far as a politician might expect , well like by both mp and constituent . as we navigate life ' s milestone , it be natural to become philosophical . first and foremost , I be a husband and a father . while no professional achievement rival the significance of personal event such as childbirth , be give the tremendous opportunity to serve our country and constituent , those in need and , if we do our job right , those whom we can help to avoid need altogether , come close . speak of fatherhood and childbirth , I draw hon . member ' attention to the tremendous work do by the Basildon university hospital , a place where miracle be commonplace . it be the place where my child be bear and where , at one time or another , virtually everyone I love have be nurse back to health . I extend my heartfelt appreciation , admiration and respect to everyone who work there . since its inception as a constituency , people in South Basildon and East Thurrock have always vote blue , until they choose turquoise for the first time this July . to stand here today , I have to overcome a previous win margin of 19 , 922 . my own win margin be less dominant : it be one of the tight in the country , at just 98 vote . a swing that large be strong testament to the importance of listen to the people who put we here — all of they . that be a lesson I will not forget . it go without say that I do not achieve that swing alone . although I would like to think that my effort , and those of my mother , who march tirelessly next to I , hand out flier in the baking June sun , earn I the 100 or so vote that get I over the line , the vast majority of that shift be carry by my colleague and fellow Reform UK mps . their tireless championing of the british people be something we should strive to emulate . I be extremely grateful to they . although , as my hon . friend the Member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) have say , this have ruin my life , I would not have it any other way . I be eternally grateful to the good people of South Basildon and East Thurrock for send I here . I intend to repay their trust by be open and honest , accessible and available . never have it be more important to reconfirm that they have the right to a voice . it be my duty to hear it and protect their right to it . have volunteer to stand as a parliamentary candidate on 4 May and have be invite to stand on 4 June , it be poetic that my seat be one of the last to be call in England , have to endure three count . I might add that I win all three . South Basildon and East Thurrock be a beautiful cross - section of this country . situate just 30 mile east along the Thames from this beautiful Palace , it be an area of great natural diversity , joyfully combine the new with a rich and varied history , rural and industrial . South Basildon and East Thurrock boast Europe ' s large Amazon centre as well as glorious countryside and a prime location on the Thames . many of our quaint village have historical significance . horndon - on - the - Hill be mention in the Domesday Book of 1086 and one of the early uprising that lead to the peasant ' revolt take place in fob in 1381 . those uprising mark the beginning of the end of serfdom . I be hopeful that the lesson teach to the rule class then never need to be relearn . how appropriate it be then that I have the privilege to stand and champion the core value that so many from my home hold dear : independence , equality of opportunity , upward social mobility , courage , long suffering , honesty and forgiveness . I be grateful to champion these quality not just because I believe in they but because I have benefit from they . I be the first in my family to go to university . I have be show forgiveness , give opportunity and climb upwards . as the door be open for I , I will help hold it open for other . most importantly , I must thank the wonderful woman in my life : my late grandmother , a survivor of the blitz , who dedicate her life to her family , and my mother and sister , whose strength , courage and determination inspire I . I have not write this down , but I have well mention my mother - in - law . very wise . to my wife , the mother of my child , who in a crowd of powerful woman stand as the most glorious of all , you be my strength , my light and I love you with all my heart . to my father , brother and late grandfather , who fight for this land and spend his last year in peace in the constituency I now represent , and to the rest of my big , wonderful , eclectic family , thank you for mock I so ruthlessly that my foot will never leave the ground . if hon . member will forgive I , I will now fulfil a dream nearly a quarter of a century in the making and end by misquote the immortal word of Ali G — " r - e - S - p - E - C - t . " I call Minister Mike Kane . my goodness , it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . congratulation on your election . it have be a collegiate debate and I be grateful to all the hon . member who have attend . I be grateful to the Opposition for their support . I say to the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) that I be look forward to a picture on his social medium of his SAF - power Land Rover as he go canvass in his constituency — that be a must - see for we all . it be on its way . that be good news . the issue have have good cross - party support : when I be in opposition , I support the Government on it . in his maiden speech , the hon . member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) , who be no long in his place , thank his predecessor , and I put on record my own tribute to the former Member for Witney ; he undertake my current role with diligence , care and good humour and I wish he the good for the future . really , this legislation be set out by the Labour Government in 2003 in the aviation White Paper , " the Future of Air Transport " , in which we talk about the future of decarbonise aviation for the first time and about bring in new sustainable fuel . the shadow Minister have some specific question . he ask about ticket price . the Government recognise that SAF will be more expensive than traditional jet fuel , and it be right that the cost , as we have agree in the past , be bear by the polluter — they will not be bear by the Government . I think the figure be that , by 2030 , we expect ticket to be £ 4 more , which will be a 2 % increase , and by 2040 , we expect they to be £ 10 more , which will be a 5 . 5 % increase . before Mayor Burnham re - regulate the bus in Greater Manchester , a person could fly from Manchester airport to Dublin for £ 12 . 99 but they could not cross my conurbation on a bus and change transport provider for that amount of money . the shadow Minister be right to raise that point , but the increase be negligible . the shadow Minister ask about the future fuel fund . we have see some great thing go on in private industry . in the north - west of England , we see Fulcrum BioEnergy produce sustainable aviation fuel at Ellesmere Port ; we see Velocys in the north - east do it at Immingham — I will come to my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) in a minute — and Alpha air do it in Teesside . that be really good for the regeneration of post - industrial area in part of the north of England . the shadow Minister talk about power to liquid . yes , that be the future . in my speech , I set out some ambitious target that we will have to meet to reduce the HEFA and improve power to liquid . he ask about our ambition . the UK do not want to be at a competitive disadvantage , which be why we have carefully balance the HEFA cap in a way that recognise that HEFA be , currently , the only commercially available type of SAF , but that do not mean that we can not go far and fast . I mention in my speech that there will be review every five year , start in 2030 , so I hope that that satisfy the Opposition . I be grateful for their support in this area . let I turn now to my hon . friend the Member for Easington . I always like to thank he for his contribution to transport debate ; he be always in these debate . he be a stalwart when it come to transport issue and he be really consider . he be right that there be too many anagram in the field of sustainable aviation fuel . when the Conservatives be in power , they always talk about the bonfire of regulation . perhaps we should start the bonfire of anagram . my hon . friend be not wrong , but we will have to see . he do say that these be good , sustainable industrial job in part of the country where we need they . that be what SAF bring we and that be what the Government be try to achieve . I also thank the Liberal Democrats for their support on this issue . we be work with supplier . I have have roundtable discussion with supplier , particularly in opposition , and there be more to come in government . I have mention some of the company that we be work with . this be an ambition , but I think that we can go far and fast . the figure that I give be not set in stone . we should be promote new technology , because there be new technology beyond this area . there be hydrogen battery power . when it come to UK emission , would it not be a great day when a Minister can say that there will be no carbon burn in any plane fly internally within the UK ? that would be a great place to be . as a north of England Member , however , I have to disagree with the idea that we should stop people fly because there be a train . that might be fine in an area where there be great , reliable train service , but I invite the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) to come on my Avanti train occasionally to see how unreliable and how poor that service be . we have to keep it in mind that , one day in the future , we will improve the rail service through our great british rail Bill , but at the moment we have absolutely no plan as a Government to stop people fly . I welcome the news that the Government be not go to pursue some form of new attack on short - haul plane . how glad we be to see that he be ignore the Liberal Democrats on this issue . I thank the hon . member for his intervention , but I be grateful for small mercy ; the Liberal Democrats be support this move . I thank the former Minister , the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) for his time in the Department and in this role . to my hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) , I say very well do . what an excellent and consider maiden speech he make . the personal testimony about his mother and his sister be really poignant . that speech will stand he in good stead . I be , however , a bit perturb to hear about the former Member for Exeter , who be a passionate advocate of sustainable aviation in this place , whistle the tune to " the Great Escape " while out canvass . a day probably do not go by in this place without one of we whistle " the Great Escape " . I be once teach by a sage old whip that most mp spend their whole life try to get here and then the rest of the week try to get away . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Exeter again that that be a really great , well - consider maiden speech , and I wish he all the very good for his year ahead on these Benches . that speech be follow by another very well - consider maiden speech from the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) . I do not think that anyone can beat the fact that he have the home of " the great british Bake Off " in his constituency . that be amazing and no member can beat that . when it come to our beautiful chalk stream such as the one in Newbury , or to our sky , it be our sacred mission to protect our environment for future generation . that be why we must keep talk about decarbonisation , which be what we be do here tonight . I say very well do to the hon . Member and I wish he well for the future . finally , let I come to the hon . member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( James McMurdock ) . I , too , pay tribute to his predecessor , Stephen Metcalfe . my first speech in a Bill Committee up in a dusty corridor be terrible and he write I a note say , " really well do , Mike " , and I still have that note on my wall today . what a lovely , lovely man he be . I congratulate the hon . member , who raise the subject of childbirth and early maternal care , which we should come back to a lot more in this House in the future ; there be still a lot more to do in that area . he may be a latter - day Wat Tyler , with the peasant ' revolt quote , but on a personal level I hope that there be not a great rise of Reform . however , I wish the hon . member the good for his career in this place . I thank Members again for their consideration . for those question where it have not be possible for I to provide a response today , I ask Members please to let I know and I will write to they . SAF present a key opportunity to decarbonise UK aviation and secure a long - term future for the sector . these draft regulation demonstrate how we can capitalise on this opportunity . mandate the use of SAF have the potential to generate significant greenhouse gas saving , and ultimately play a pivotal role in achieve net zero . I commend this order to the house . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft renewable Transport Fuel Obligations ( sustainable Aviation Fuel ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 24 July , be approve . we now come to the next item of business . I call the Minister to move the motion . medicine I beg to move , that the draft Human Medicines ( Amendments relate to Naloxone and Transfers of Functions ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 29 July , be approve . I , too , congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it really be a pleasure to see you in the Chair . the draft statutory instrument will amend the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 to expand access to naloxone : a lifesaving medication that reverse the effect of an overdose from opioid drug . in addition , the SI will keep the regulation current by update reference to Public Health England and the Health and Social Care Board , follow the dissolution of those body . hon . member will no doubt know of the devastating impact of illicit drug . drug destroy life , tear family apart and make our street less safe . almost 3 , 000 people die of drug misuse in England in 2022 — the high number since record begin in 1993 . drug misuse death have double over the past 10 year , and people die from drug misuse at a tragically young age , often in their 40 . almost half of drug misuse death in 2022 involved opiate such as heroin . these death be avoidable . dedicated drug treatment service provide the path to recovery , and my Department be continue to invest in improvement to local treatment service , which have face significant cutback . we also know that over half the people struggle with opiate addiction be not engage in treatment at all . that mean that significant number of an incredibly vulnerable population be at increase risk of accidentally overdose and die . People who experience addiction often have multiple complex need , and we know that there be a strong link between addiction and deprivation . the rate of drug misuse death in the most deprived area of England be almost three time high than in the least deprived . nearly a third of people in treatment for drug or alcohol problem reportedly have a disability , around one in six have a housing problem , and around 70 % have a mental health treatment need . tackle this issue support the Government ' s health mission , ensure that people can live long , happy life , as well as our collective effort to break down barrier to opportunity and create a fairer society . naloxone be a highly effective antidote against opiate overdose . it can be administer quickly and safely by anyone in an emergency , but currently exemption in the human medicine regulation target at specific provider enable supply only by drug and alcohol treatment service , which limit the reach of this lifesave medicine . widen the statutory framework will mean that more service and professional be able to supply this medication . that mean easy access to it for people at risk and their loved one . in short , the legislation will save life . we be already see the benefit of professional outside the health service , such as police officer , be able to administer naloxone . North Yorkshire police have already save seven life since April , when naloxone be roll out across the force . the draft instrument propose two key UK - wide change to exist regulation . first , it will expand the list of service and professional name in the regulation who be able to give out naloxone without a prescription . in short , that mean that professional such as registered nurse and probation officer will be able to provide take - home supply of naloxone where appropriate , should they wish to do so . secondly , we propose to establish national registration service across the whole of the United Kingdom . that will enable all other service and professional who be unable to be name in the legislation , include housing and homelessness service , to register and procure naloxone , subject to the passage of this statutory instrument . I look forward to work with colleague across the devolved government on this important issue ; I thank they for their work to date , and their continue support . I reassure hon . member that we be not compromise on safety with these change . this be an extremely safe and effective measure , even when administer by a layperson with no prior experience . it have an effect only if the person have take opioid , and be already widely use across the UK and internationally . we be take step to mitigate any , very limited , risk associate with wide access . we will provide update guidance for service in scope , and set out robust requirement for training and safeguarding . the new power be enable but not mandatory . the intention be not to create new burden for service , but to provide an opportunity for provision base on local need . I be confident in the support for the change across sector , which be evident in the response to my Department ' s consultation early this year , over 90 % of which be in support . I recognise the long - stand call for these change among expert in this area . for instance , the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs be an independent expert body that advise the Government on drug - relate issue in the UK . in 2022 , it publish a review of naloxone implementation that call for more work to widen access to the medication . similarly , Dame Carol Black ' s independent review of drug also highlight expansion as a vital harm - reduction measure . I pay tribute to Dame Carol for the work that she have do to drive improvement in drug treatment and recovery , and express my gratitude for her continue advice and expertise . the importance of this work only continue to increase as time go on . hon . member may be aware of the grow threat pose by synthetic opioid . these synthetic drug , such as nitazene and fentanyl , be often more potent and more deadly . the Government be take a range of step to prevent the rise of these dangerous drug in the UK , but the availability of naloxone will be vital to our ability to respond and save life . addiction be not a choice . it be often fuel by wide issue , such as trauma and housing instability . this be a complex public health issue and must be tackle as such . we must change the narrative on addiction to one that be about prevent drug use , reduce harm and enable recovery . the change in the legislation be simple and low risk , but have the potential to save countless life . on that basis , I commend the draft regulation to the House . I call the shadow Minister . it be not often that one speak in this place on change to the law that will have the direct result of save life , but once the draft regulation pass , as I hope they will this evening , we expect they to save many people ' life . today be a very special occasion . I do not say this to disparage people who work in the public health industry , but at its core , public health be not about flash or pizazz ; it be about incremental change that make a real difference to people ' s life , and have an ongoing , cumulative effect . naloxone reverse the effect of opiate intoxication or overdose . it stop people from die of accidental or deliberate overdose of heroin and other opiate drug , and opiate medication . it be quite literally a life - save medication . accordingly , it be one of the World Health Organisation ' s essential medication . tomorrow be World Suicide Prevention Day , so I be pleased that we be support and debate a motion to expand access to and administration of a vital antidote to opiate poisoning . Suicide be the big cause of death in man under the age of 50 . the stat vary , but while I be look for the good and most recent datum , I read that around three quarter of suicide each year be by man , and that suicide be the big killer of under - 35 , impact people from all walk of life . many people be affect by such death . on World Suicide Prevention Day , we remember all those affect by suicide , and the work that we need to do to reduce suicide through public health measure and mental health service provision and treatment . the use of highly addictive , lethal opiate , perhaps in combination with other substance , be often responsible for death as a consequence of drug misuse . in 2022 , opioid be involve in 73 % of drug misuse death in England , and 82 % in Scotland . the last Government work very hard to make progress on reverse the upward trend in drug poisoning death . our 10 - year , cross - departmental drug strategy , publish in 2022 , aim to prevent nearly 1 , 000 death in England by 2025 . the naloxone roll - out have be highly effective in reduce drug misuse death by treat the effect of opiate overdose . there have be several regulatory change that have expand access in the last decade . under the last government , the Human Medicines Regulations be approve in 2012 to regulate the supply and use of drug in the UK . that be follow by further amendment in 2015 and 2019 , which focus on expand access to naloxone for emergency use . the last Government then call on Dame Carol Black to lead an independent review of drug policy . I thank Dame Carol for her work in this space , and indeed everyone work in this area , and those who contribute to our consultation early this year . one of Dame Carol ' s key recommendation be that more individual support drug user be able to access and give out naloxone . I be pleased that she welcome the proposal to expand access to naloxone early this year . when we launch a consultation seek view on improve naloxone access through name service and professional , as require by the Medicines and Medical Devices Act 2021 , there be strong support . there be over 300 response , of which a third be from organisation and over 200 from individual and professional . More than 80 % be supportive of improve access through name service and professional , and of introduce registration with a naloxone supply co - ordinator . I be pleased that minister have follow the direction of the previous Government in legislate to expand access to naloxone to more healthcare professional and service , as they want and need it . that will build on work across the UK to reduce the scourge of drug - relate death cause by opioid . on this legislation , the Government will have the support of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , and I encourage all colleague from across the House to give it their backing . of course , I have a question for the Minister about training , which be critical . during my psychiatric training at medical school , a key thing instill into my head about the use of naloxone be that it be a wonderful drug for the first 30 minute , but then it start to wear off . it have a short half - life — the time that it take to leave the body — and then the effect of opiate overdose can start to reoccur , especially when we be talk about long - act opiate , so although it fix one problem , another problem be come down the track . the patient must have adequate treatment quickly so that they do not suffer after effect when naloxone wear off . can the Minister reassure I that for those involve in the administration of naloxone kit and aftercare — she mention family , and broad access for homelessness charity — the training component be as secure as possible , so that everything be do to avoid further drug - relate death ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be good to a hear consensus building across the House on naloxone because , as we have hear from other member , it be a lifesaver . since its roll - out in the UK , that highly effective antidote to opioid intoxication have doubtlessly save hundred of life and prevent many more harmful overdose , as organisation work in my community have know for some time . on the day that my local branch of Cranstoun — the harm reduction charity — receive its first supply of naloxone , staff member notice that someone be overdose in the reception area . they be still unpack the pallet , but they be able to get access to the medicine , administer it , bring the person back around , and then help they far . within an hour after that vital medication be receive , it potentially save a life in my borough . the local staff describe naloxone as a game changer . that be why I and the liberal Democrats welcome this motion to expand access to that vital treatment . naloxone be not a difficult drug to administer : just 30 minute of training can be enough to equip somebody to treat a person in need . naloxone be also low - risk . the person administer it do not need to know for sure what drug someone be on : if they have take an opioid , Naloxone will help ; if they have take something else , it will likely do no harm . the combination of it be easy and safe to use , along with its life - save potential , mean that , as long as the correct training be give , it be common sense to get naloxone into as many hand as possible . that be particularly true give the frightening rise of the use of synthetic opioid , such as nitazene , in our country . Most people be aware of the danger of one particular opioid — heroin — but the crackdown on supply in Afghanistan mean that a new synthetic alternative be rapidly take its place in the market . nitazene be estimate to be anywhere between 30 and 500 time as potent as heroin . that be scary . if we do not act fast , we could be deal with a national emergency comparable to the fentanyl crisis sweep across the United States . although I welcome the measure , this urgency mean that I must encourage the Government to think quickly about go far . the expand roll - out of naloxone to police , prison , probation and youth justice service be welcome , but I ask the Minister to monitor the success of that expansion closely , to listen to the organisation on the ground , and to keep under review whether it be practical and desirable to expand access even far . for instance , some charity have call for taxi driver and nightclub door staff to be able to access if they want it . that would have to go alongside the appropriate training , so that they can recognise the effect wear off in 30 minute . if that training be in place , we should expand access far still . if we build the evidence base , we can be lead by it and ensure that harm reduction measure reach as many people as possible . go far also mean take a whole - system approach to drug policy — from appropriate sentencing to investment in addiction service and other specialist support for user . we have try the tough talk and the war - on - drug route in this country , but they have leave we with one of Europe ' s bad drug - relate death rate . if we transfer the departmental lead on drug policy from the Home Office to the Department of Health and Social Care , it would go a long way towards our recognising that our drug policy should ultimately be drive by the desire to reduce harm and save life . the Liberal Democrats support this measure to improve access to naloxone , and I thank the Minister for bring it forward . I thank all those who have make maiden speech and valuable contribution today . as the Democratic Unionist party ' s health spokesperson , it be important that I speak on this issue to provide , as I always do , a Northern Ireland perspective for the Minister , the shadow Minister and all other who have speak . the experience in Northern Ireland mirror that in the rest of the United Kingdom . I add my support for what the Minister have bring forward — nobody in the Chamber be unable to see the benefit . as member will be aware , naloxone be a life - changer . the DUP have consistently support the administration of naloxone by the Police Service of Northern Ireland and the ambulance service . the legislation before we will extend that remit to further profession and staff , as well as confirm necessary rule around storage and training . I have talk to colleague and friend back home about this issue . they be clear that we need to address it , and the provision be a method of do just that . the figure around opioid - relate death in Northern Ireland be absolutely heartbreaking : 154 drug - relate death be register in 2022 . although that represent a reduction of 59 from the 213 drug - relate death register in 2021 , I think we can all agree that that be simply too many death . we must do whatever we can do reduce that number and the impact on all those family who wish something be available to save life . since 2012 , death from drug - relate cause have rise by 98 % in Northern Ireland , they have go from 110 to a peak of 218 in 2020 , and to 213 in 2021 . the 2022 total of 154 represent a 40 % increase on the number of drug death register a decade ago . all those figure show a worrying trend . my constituency gain new territory from South Down in the boundary change prior to the last election . drug - relate activity there be incredibly worrying , and I be take up those issue with community representative and the psni . of the 154 drug - relate death register in Northern Ireland in 2022 , over two third be of man . if we look at the number of death by age , the 25 - to - 34 and 35 - to - 44 age group account together for 56 % of all drug - relate death in 2022 . each year , over half of drug - relate death involve an opioid . in the year from 2020 to 2022 , the death certificate for an average of 118 drug - relate death mention an opioid . the Minister mention homelessness . the provincial press back home — I think it be a newsletter that I read before I leave this morning — mention an increase in the number of homeless people in Northern Ireland . we have never before experience such figure in all these year . the Minister be right to underline that issue , because it be not just happen in London , Birmingham , Manchester , Newcastle , Glasgow or Cardiff ; it be happen everywhere . it be happen in Northern Ireland . the number of people look for property and accommodation in my constituency be at some of the high level I have ever see , in all my year as an elect representative — as a councillor , as a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly and latterly as a Member of Parliament . the need for the appropriate use and storage of this medication , which can bring people back from the brink and hopefully give they a chance of a normal life , be all too clear . I also ask the Minister to outline whether , within the legislative process , there be any protection for public health staff . that be very important ; I say that respectfully , because I know how important it be for the staff I speak to back home that they receive protection from legal liability for the administration of naloxone . we need to ensure that staff do not fear step in and that they fully understand that their intention to do good in the circumstance will come with a cloak of protection . I ask that for the sake of the people I represent ; I know that the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) will speak shortly , with his vast knowledge of health issue , and will probably reiterate the same point . it be a terrible thing to understand , but whenever I speak to medical personnel , they say that there must be no hesitancy about step forward for fear of repercussion . many people wait to see whether someone else will step forward — not because they lack confidence in their ability or because of a mentality that they be off the clock and about to go home , but because of a deep fear that if their help be not successful , they will face repercussion . the situation need to be clarify for the worker allow to administer the drug , who must always be protect while administer it . I very much welcome the Minister ' s proposal , and I look forward to the House ' s endorsement of the draft regulation . there have be magnanimous support for they from the shadow Minister and the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) , as I be sure there will be from the hon . member for South Antrim and from other member who contribute . this be the right thing to do . let ' s do it . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . alongside hon . member who have speak on behalf of other party , I welcome the change . naloxone save life : it bring people back from one of the most final and , in many case , fatal mistake they can make . this be a really important change to make , but I hope that the regulation will be keep more closely and continuously under review , rather than we just come back to the topic in two year ' time , as be mandate . drug policy must be evidence - lead . as we see the benefit , hopefully quickly , of wide access and of more people have naloxone available in their work , it might be a good idea to see whether we can widen access any far . I have be read the careful , evidence - base and consider response from a range of different charity , include Release . it seem that there be quite a few group of worker who ought to be able to use the first route — the expand definition of worker who can easily access and use the drug — rather than the second route , under which they access it not directly but via a separately accredited provider of naloxone . as Release say , one of the simple way to achieve that might be to make it a pharmacy - available drug rather than a prescription drug , with some exception , as we have now . I do not want to say , " Don ' t do this " ; I be say , " do it , then review it and go far if you can . " many group of worker will have the experience of unexpectedly meet people who be go through overdose more often than other will in their daily work . there be now also more people work with those who will unexpectedly be go through overdose because of the wide prevalence of synthetic opioid and the other route to become a victim of opioid overdose . they include student welfare worker , youth worker who be not necessarily involve in youth justice , local councillor potentially , night - time venue staff , transport worker , who be not currently on the list , street cleaner and park worker . once we see the benefit of wide group be able to access naloxone easily , it may become obvious that some of these other group ought to be train and give simple access — potentially through pharmacy to anyone who ask . this be not to quibble . I be obviously restate quite a lot of what be say in the consultation . I hope that we continue to look at the evidence and expand this as quickly as possible . every life that we could save , we should save . the harm that could be do be minimal in comparison . I thank the Minister for bring this statutory instrument to the House . as I think all hon . member have say , naloxone have prove itself time and again to be the lifesave drug that reverse the effect of a devastating opioid overdose . that be especially important because opioid - relate death now make up the large proportion of death from drug misuse across the UK ; in Northern Ireland , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say , they represent over 50 % . the purpose of these amendment , which I fully support when I be Minister of Health in Northern Ireland , be to increase the number of service , professional and organisation that can supply naloxone without prescription or even a write instruction . in June 2021 , when I be in post in my Department , the then Government agree to a UK - wide public consultation on the propose change to the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 , which seek view on the viability of proposal to widen access to naloxone by expand the list of service and individual who can give it out without a prescription or a write instruction . I support the contribution from the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) . we need to keep the matter continually under review , with additional training to ensure that we can get naloxone into as many people ' s hand as possible , so that it can be administer at the right point at the right time . I think at the time , and I still think today , that these change be not just perfectly sensible ; they be a small legislative step that will have big , real and life - change consequence . I be glad to see that they have receive support across the House . thankfully , the consultation indicate strong support for each of the proposal , include from those who respond solely from the Northern Ireland perspective . the evidence be clear : countless life have be save as a result of naloxone . I be confident that today ' s change will help to prevent more people who use drug from sadly lose their life to that use . this evening , I be stand in for my hon . friend the public health Minister , who could not be here . I might offer to stand in again , such have be the rare outbreak of unanimity across this House . I know from my own experience in the sector that that be often the case with public health measure , as so much work be do in the background , and there be broad agreement on the need for prevention and the great work that have be do before . I thank member , particularly the opposition spokespeople , for their support this evening and their comment , which be testament to the work do by official and by the previous Administration to get we to this point . the consultation be very well receive . I support the comment of the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , about recognise World Suicide Prevention Day . suicide , particularly among man , be something that have affect most family — most of we , I think — and it have certainly affect many people in this House , so the hon . member be right to raise those issue . he ask about training , and I can confirm that training and datum reporting requirement will be attach to this measure . that training will be require to meet some broad objective , include the safe administration of naloxone , safe storage , and how to train someone else to handle and administer it safely . train on its use be already well establish in most part of the country alongside naloxone provision , and each product have its own establish training set out by the manufacturer . I have hear the professional point that the hon . Member have raise , and if he have any further requirement , my hon . friend the public health Minister would be happy to write to he . other excellent point be make about keep this issue under review , which we absolutely will be do . the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) make her point well , and they be now on the record . the Government will be look to work on our prevention strategy across all Departments — include the Ministry of Justice , the Home Office , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the Department for Work and Pensions , and the Department for Education — to ensure that we take a preventive , public health - lead approach to this issue . I also thank the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , who have bring his expertise in Northern Ireland into this House for this debate . I be sure this issue will come back before the House in the future . in my contribution I ask a question — which the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) have remind I of — about ensure that medical staff who have the expertise to administer naloxone , but do so outside of their job , be cover and that there be no comeback against they . could the Minister answer that question ? I understand that there be some concern about that issue , and we will make sure that the hon . member receive a full answer from my hon . friend the public health Minister . in short , these change will widen access to life - save medicine . I be sure hon . member will agree that any death from an illicit drug be tragic and preventable , so I be pleased that we be take this step and that we have the support of the House this evening for reduce drug - relate death . on that basis , I hope hon . member will join I in support these important regulatory change , which I commend to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Human Medicines ( Amendments relate to Naloxone and Transfers of Functions ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 29 July , be approve . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . last Thursday , during question to the Leader of the House on the statement of business , I ask a question about BTecs in relation to college . although it be register in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests that I be a governor of two college , I fail to draw the House ' s attention to that fact before ask my question . the two college that I be a governor of be affect by the answer , so I take this opportunity to place that on the record , and offer my unreserved apology to the House accordingly . I thank the hon . member for his point of order and his clarification . I be sure the record will stand amend and correct . business of the House ( today ) order , that at today ' s sit the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to the Modernisation Committee not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Modernisation Committee Motion make , and question propose , that — ( 1 ) Mike Amesbury , Mr Alex Barros - Curtis , Markus Campbell - Savours , Wendy Chamberlain , Sir Christopher Chope , Sarah Coombes , Chris Elmore , Kirith Entwistle , Paulette Hamilton , Marie Goldman , Joy Morrissey , Chris Philp , Jo Platt and Lucy Powell shall be member of the Modernisation Committee ; and ( 2 ) Lucy Powell shall be the Chair of the Committee . — ( Lucy Powell . ) I be surprised that the Leader of the House do not speak to this motion . obviously the House need a Modernisation Committee , and obviously there be a great deal of work to be do by that Committee — there be many thing we could modernise , include the voting and the hour , which the Committee will have to draw attention to . my question to the Leader of the House be this . there be a group of five colleague who be elect independently to Parliament for the first time . I be not seek a job , by the way — I be not seek to be on the Committee . however , I do think that the knowledge and experience that be bring to bear in this House by people who have come here through an abnormal route — that is , not through party machinery — could bring a great deal of value to the work of the Committee and help to inform its work . be the Leader of the House prepare to consider change the format of the Committee to include representative of all grouping in the House , so that they can all help to make it work in a more modern and efficient way , and so that our time be well use than — in my experience — by spend hour and hour go through the Division Lobby when we could quite easily vote electronically , for example ? I thank the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) for those point . I be sure he and I share many of the same frustration , which be one reason we be establish the Modernisation Committee . he may not be aware that the substantive motion establish the Modernisation Committee be consider at length during several hour of debate before the recess . the motion before we be about the membership of that Committee , the name have be nominate by the party they represent . in the debate before the recess , I say very clearly that I want the Committee to fully engage with all the party and all the grouping in the House . it have not be possible to do more , because of the math of the situation . for example , how would we pick which small party be represent on that Committee through a formal membership ? however , both in the Chamber at this Dispatch Box and subsequently in writing , I have make it absolutely clear that the Modernisation Committee will meaningfully and continually , on an ongoing basis , engage with the small party across this House . as the right hon . Gentleman say , their input will be vital to its work . I think that be the good way to represent all the different small party and their very differ view about some of these issue . I be grateful to the Leader of the House for what she have say about inclusion . that be welcome of course , but it seem to I that an even well form of inclusion of the view of all party in the House would be through membership of the Committee so that they be at every meeting , rather than dependent on the generosity or largesse of the Committee as a whole to invite they to give evidence . I thank the right hon . Gentleman again for that , but this be a balance . the membership make - up of the Committee reflect that of all Select Committees of this House , and to achieve a proportion where one place would be available for a small party would mean a very big Committee indeed — even then , only one small party would be represent and not all . my approach will be to make sure that the small party be regularly invite into the Committee , be regularly engage and be regularly ask for their thought ahead of and during inquiry . that be a more meaningful way to collate all the view of the different party and grouping in this place , give how the membership of the Committee have to come about . I want to follow on from what the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) say , and to raise a specific query about my own party , the DUP . we have five member , while there be other single member from Northern Ireland as well , and there be a big interest in , for example , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I do not expect an answer from the Leader of the House straightaway — I be not put she on the spot — but I be very keen to hear her thought on the good way to do this . with our deep interest in Northern Ireland affair , be it the intention of the Government , ever mindful of the statistical and numerical change there have be in this Chamber , to ensure that our party have representation to reflect that ? it have be the long - establish practice , particularly on the Committees that relate to the devolved nation of the UK , that there be representation from all the party that have be elect from that area . I think that have be a long - stand tradition , and I do not think there be any intention to change that at this stage . question put and agree to . Petition - NoneHelme Chase Maternity Unit I rise to present a petition on behalf of 2 , 200 of my constituent on , and indeed against , the temporary closure of Helme Chase maternity unit at Westmorland general hospital . this be the third such temporary closure in five year of our maternity unit , and over the past 20 year we have see a 90 % reduction in the number of birth at Helme Chase , due to the steady erosion of that vital and much love unit . we be determined to reverse that and see a renew , properly resource and safe maternity unit for Westmorland ' s mum and their baby . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that Helme Chase Maternity Unit have be underfunde by the Morecambe Bay NHS Hospitals Trust ; far declare that responsibility for this fall upon previous Conservative Government ' s cut to rural health service ; further note that sufficient money and resource from the Government to fully staff Helme Chase would stop the threat of permanent closure to this local maternity unit from closure . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider Helme Chase Maternity Unit ' s resource need when provide funding to Morecambe Bay NHS Hospitals Trust . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P003006 ] housing : Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) it be a pleasure to have the opportunity to raise the rather grave issue of provide affordable housing in the housing emergency - ride community of Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly . I be grateful to those engage in business early this evening who have permit we a little extra time to explore the issue . perhaps that be do for good reason , so that the grave and important issue of Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly could be properly and fully debate . I welcome the Minister to his place . indeed , Liberal Democrat Members warmly welcome he and fully take on board the sincerity , intensity and determination of the Government to address the serious housing problem that exist across the country , and the housing emergency that exist in many community as well as Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly . I should also declare an interest . during my nine - year sabbatical from this House I go back to my profession as the chief executive of a registered provider — a housing charity — work at the front line on predevelopment work and deliver affordable home for local people . it be a challenging environment , and because of the man - make — or man and woman - make — nature of the regulatory environment in which professional operate , and the topographical challenge that we face in place such as Cornwall , it be a little like try to push boulder up a steep slope . I hope the Minister will take into account that if measure can be take to improve the availability of opportunity for those who be tick all the right box to deliver genuinely in - perpetuity affordable home , which be desperately need in our community , the Government will do that . this be not my maiden speech , and after have take a sabbatical — perhaps it be an enforced sabbatical , but it be one I enjoy — away from the Chamber for so long , I would in normal circumstance praise my predecessor . we do not share much in the way of political agreement , but he work hard for the constituency and achieve a great deal . indeed , Mr Derek Thomas strive on a large number of project , and I hope that I will reflect the effort he make to ensure that those project be deliver during my time in this House . because it be not my maiden speech , I therefore do not need to remind the House , as I do on 22 May 1997 , that my constituency be the most beautiful and most remarkable place in the country , occupy by the most beautiful , remarkable people . on that point , will the hon . member give way ? be I give way on " beautiful " or " remarkable " ? on both . okay , on both point . first , I commend the hon . member on secure the debate . it be good to see he back in his place . he bring much to the Chamber when he be here before , and I be fortunate to share some time with he in the Chamber . we have many thing in common . the first be that we have beautiful constituency , and the second be our concern about affordable housing and its accessibility . do he welcome the Government ' s manifesto pledge to increase housing ? in my area , the housing list be massive . do he agree that when it come to the Government ' s policy , it must first be well streamlined planning ? secondly , they should allocate funding to get family into home . thirdly , do he agree that we need a strategy and a programme motivated and drive by Westminster for all the region of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , because , as I always say , we can do it well together ? the hon . member anticipate many of the subject that I will be come on to , which be about the delivery and streamlining of planning and so on . part of my background be not only in the delivery of housing through a community land trust and the charitable housing sector , but also in my volunteering . for many year , I be involve in Penzance street food project and be work at the frontline address and speak to people who be suffer from the most severe housing problem in the country . indeed , in Cornwall we often have to repeat that although people come and have enjoyable holiday , as I know the Minister do , beneath that veneer be extremely severe housing problem and severe and exceptional level of homelessness , which perhaps be beyond the vision of those who come and enjoy our beautiful beach , our beautiful environment and our wall - to - wall sunshine . I have give the Minister advance notice of some of the subject I intend to cover , but one be to probe a little hard on the Government ' s intention to raise house building target and to challenge how we can properly ensure that if we be to build more home , that will address need , rather than developer ’ greed . I will come back to that in a moment . under the surface — I think a lot of people be not fully aware of this — the public purse be make a major contribution to the injustice go on in the housing sector , in that multi million of pound in public money be go into the pocket of holiday home owner , especially through various tax loophole and covid aid grant and so on . that clearly be drive the sector in the opposite direction to the one in which it should be go . by way of background , Cornwall have high level of housing need . the late Homechoice register be 20 , 332 , but that be after the annual administrative process of remove people who have not be active on the register for the previous year . the month before that , the register be 27 , 000 , so the number oscillate . from my experience of undertake housing need survey across many community in Cornwall , the number often underplay the significant level of unexpressed housing need . we often find that the level of need in most community be at least double what be record on the Homechoice register , because many people think it be a waste of time put their name on it , because they have little chance of ever get a home . of course , every location have housing problem of one type or another — other place experience similar problem — but in Cornwall we face a rather unique combination . for example , just 12 . 8 % of our housing stock be social housing against a national average of 17 . 1 % , and although 20 % or thereabout of the housing stock be privately rent — that be about the national average — it be an extremely vulnerable sector for people to find themselves in . particularly in recent year , a large proportion of family in that sector have find themselves on the verge of be evict to make way for yet more holiday let . housing completion have be good . we have an effective register and a housing association sector that be deliver well , and indeed Cornwall be one of the good local authority area in deliver number , but it achieve that as one of the large local authority , so it be bind to be up at that end of the league . my first substantive point for the Minister be about the Government ' s state intention on house building target . I fully endorse and support the Government ' s intention to deliver in order to meet housing need , but , as I say to the Deputy Prime Minister when the announcement be make in July , Cornwall show how simply have house building target do not work . Cornwall be one of the fast grow place in the United Kingdom , have almost treble its housing stock in the last 60 year — I have be live there through most of those year — and yet at the end of all that the housing problem have get bad . I be not say that it would be well if we have not build any house , but simply set very high housing target in itself do not address housing need . the two - dimensional view of housing be somehow a simple relationship between supply and demand in which equilibrium will be find and price will therefore reflect what local wage can afford have never be the case in Cornwall . that reflect , in effect , a sub - London housing market , with house price have be significantly inflate by people and property investor buy second and holiday home . in the present local plan for Cornwall , cover 2010 to 2030 , the house building target be 52 , 500 . the Government propose to increase those projection under their new formula from 2 , 707 property per annum to 4 , 454 . I urge the Minister to allow place such as Cornwall to be grant devolved power to vary the way in which we achieve what need to be do in our local environment : not simply to give we house building figure but to set target to reduce housing need . after all , house building target be a means to an end — the end be to meet the housing need — and if we have build the home but that have not achieve the purpose , we must ask ourselves : be we go about it in the right way ? the Government ' s new standard method have a different starting point from the old method . it be base on a two - step process of a 0 . 8 % annual uplift on exist housing stock , plus a further uplift for the affordability gap . the problem with that approach be that , in place such as Cornwall , it bake in demand for second and holiday home , because that have to be include in those overall figure . that be a problem in the previous plan , when we have our local plan projection reject and the inspector write in much high figure , say that we have to increase the number to 52 , 500 — more than another 5 , 000 home — in order to address , as they put it , " the grow demand for second home in Cornwall . " we have high and grow demand for affordable home — that should be bake into the figure . we should have a mechanism by which we can deliver those home , because the way in which the system work be that we get all the second and investment property — the developer be very pleased to do those , but they be not so keen to deliver the genuinely affordable home , which be the one that we need . there be a simplistic view that there be equilibrium between supply and demand , and there be a presupposition that developer will release property in the market when the Government ' s policy achieve its state intention of reduce house price in that locality . we find that they only release they at time of housing inflation , so that be simply not the case . in my experience at the development end , try to deliver the affordable home that local people need , the policy be counterproductive because if the number of home announce in the local plan increase , the hope value of land adjoining every single community in Cornwall go through the roof . if a local housing charity go there and say , " I would like to look at your land and build some affordable home on it , " the developer will not talk to they . they will wait for the lottery win when they get the full open market development value on that land , which be significantly great than what a local charity can offer . I urge the Minister to have a conversation with those who be try to deliver the product on the ground , to set target to reduce need rather than feed developer ’ greed , because that be what housing target do in place such as Cornwall — elsewhere they might have a different impact . again , I ask the Minister to come to Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly and see what it be like . I be sure that all the local mps , who be all champion for their own locality , will be fight hard to address these issue . a further point I wish to make be on the rural exception policy , as I use that tool when work in the sector on a regular basis , and I have raise it with the Minister already . it work well ; since the 1990 when it be introduce , it have be very effective in deliver affordable home on land that otherwise would not get planning permission . all I would say to the Minister be that we should look at way in which we can expand and grow development on rural exception site . in Cornwall we be do very well ; we deliver 50 % of what be deliver on rural exception site across the whole of England . about 20 % or 30 % of delivery in Cornwall be through rural exception site . what the local authority have do , and what we as a charity sector campaign for it to do , be extend the entitlement to deliver rural exception development from the small village to the edge of town . it may sound counterintuitive , but one of the good way of deliver affordable home be to draw the development boundary very tight around a local community and to use rural exception as a way of ensure that we keep the development land value low and deliver genuinely affordable home . the other thing I urge the Minister to do , perhaps to correct the mistake make by Cornwall some 15 year ago , be not to allow cross - subsidy on rural exception site . that have create a slippery slope where more and more landowner and private developer find way around normal planning procedure and use rural exception site as a Trojan horse to crowbar in far many more unaffordable home on those site than would otherwise be the case if we stick to the principle of the policy itself . against that , there be a very significant challenge of construction industry inflation , which be affect Cornwall as it be many other place . that have cause a lot of development in place all around Cornwall to be stall , as the cost - to - value ratio have result in the unviability of many project . I urge the Minister to look — I be sure he be — at Homes England ' s affordable housing programme . while it be look to the next five to 10 year , the current programme up to 2026 need a further injection to address the current difficulty that many development face . I say that I would address housing injustice . I be conscious of time and I know other hon . member wish to speak , so I will be brief . when I be first elect , in 1997 , the Conservatives have just introduce the 50 % council tax discount for second home . I campaign against that at the time , and be grateful to Chris Mullin and the late Michael Meacher for be receptive to the argument to remove the 50 % council tax discount . however , in 2012 , the Conservatives then introduce another loophole , which allow second home owner to flip their property from be register as second home for council tax to be register for business rate as a holiday let , if they could demonstrate that the property be available for 140 night a year . they do not need to let it , but it have to be available for 140 night a year as a holiday let . then they could apply for small business rate relief and pay nothing at all . we have end up with a situation where all that have to be cover by the Treasury . initially , in 2012 , when I first blow the whistle on it as an MP , that result in £ 6 . 5 million go each year to holiday homeowner in place such as Cornwall . within a couple of year , that have double . there have be an industrial - level movement of property from council tax to business rate . when covid happen , they be all entitle to a covid grant as well , on top of that . as a result of that , the furnished holiday letting and other loophole , in Cornwall alone over 10 year we end up with over £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money — that be our money — go into the pocket of holiday homeowner , at a time when only half that amount be go into housing association to deliver affordable home . I urge the Minister to work with his Treasury colleague to close those loophole and to find far well way of use that money . if , as the Prime Minister rightly say , those with the broad shoulder should bear the great burden , this be an area where that burden should be bear by the people who can afford extra property and property investment in holiday and second home . that be not , in my view , an appropriate way for we ever to spend public money . I say to the Minister early that I want briefly to mention the Isles of Scilly , and I hope that he will come and visit the area . many people find it surprising that it be currently experience depopulation , which be largely drive by the lack of affordable housing . here I declare an interest , as one who have be work in the sector . our charity have be work with the council on a project for which we have planning permission , and everything else , to deliver 12 self - build affordable home for local family . those home be desperately need — I believe that only eight home have be build on the Isles in the last 10 year — but the construction cost be extremely high . it cost three time as much to build a home there as it do to build one on the mainland . moreover , the project do not meet the requirement of Homes England in relation to subsidy . I urge the Minister to have a look at the very special environment that exist on the Isles of Scilly , and to address its housing need . it be 28 mile from the mainland coast , and it should not be say that member of its community can commute , because they simply can not do so . I also urge the Minister to consider the community - lead home sector . if we want to change the whole narrative and the way in which community operate , we should give people the power to start represent themselves and local housing need through , for instance , community land trust and co - housing community . the last Government have a flirtation with that sector and give it some support , but then withdraw it . however , this work have start , and I think that more can happen to deliver more . if community have local land trust or local housing work party , that be far well than allow the nimbys to take over and start drive the development process . let I also encourage the Minister to consider the issue of discount sale home . before I work in a community land trust I be a sceptic , but I have to say that I be a convert to that method as one of the additional mechanism to provide intermediate housing . I believe that it would be a cost - effective way for Homes England to engage with community that want to deliver in - perpetuity home for local , which be clearly very important . of course we do not want Rachmans and of course we want to drive bad practice out of the sector , but I hope that , perhaps take a cue from what be happen in the holiday letting , the Minister will consider this suggestion . as well as regulate the private rented sector , why should we not reward good landlord ? if they be deliver security — affordable rent , a high - level energy performance certificate and the decent home standard — surely there must be a way , within the tax system , of reward those good landlord , as well as regulate and penalise the bad one . I hope that the Minister will consider each of the point that I have make to he . I be grateful for the additional time that I have be give to elaborate on those important point , and , of course , he have plenty of time in which to respond . I do not know whether other member wish to speak as well . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant extra time for a debate that be so important for Cornwall and for give other a chance for speak about its very particular housing issue . I also thank the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) for initiate the debate . as he say , about 27 , 000 people be on Cornwall ' s housing waiting list , and about 800 be in temporary and emergency accommodation . many of they be family with young child , who be place in caravan park and holiday home that be up to an hour and a half or two hour away from their support network , their school , their job and where they live . this be really affect community cohesion , upset family and cause real hardship . the council be struggle with the need , and the cost be vast . it be provide bunk cabins in council car park for people to live in as emergency and temporary accommodation , which be very difficult . so many people in Cornwall be now live in their van , because they simply have nowhere else to go . I be find that family be move into emergency accommodation , and that the single people who be become homeless when I be first a councillor in Cornwall be now live in their car . the situation have become really dire . business be now find that key worker have nowhere to live , so we have people come down to work in the hospitality sector or in agriculture . the same be true for professional , such as teacher , nurse and doctor — a headteacher in Cornwall struggle to find somewhere to live , and she have to give up her job and move away again . there be now a movement call Homes for Cornwall , whereby business be come together to try to find alternative solution to deal with the housing crisis , which have become so bad that they can not find staff . as the hon . member for St Ives say , we have a very low number of social house in Cornwall — only 10 , 300 council home . I want to talk about the affordable housing programme grant , which a previous Secretary of State , Michael Gove , suspend for Cornwall because of the poor performance of the housing provider Cornwall Housing , which be an arm ' s length company own by the council . that performance have now improve , and the grant be desperately need for a new social housing scheme in Redruth , but it have not be return . I ask the Minister to look into that , and to see whether other local authority in this situation have be treat in the same way and lose their grant . have that grant move to other register provider in Cornwall , or have it leave Cornwall completely ? be there any way we could get that back and backdate it ? the other issue , which the hon . member for St Ives speak about , be second home and holiday let , which have absolutely explode in Cornwall , particularly since covid . the private rented sector have be decimate and be now virtually non - existent . we have struggle so much with section 21 notice , which explain to a great extent why so many of our family be now in emergency and temporary accommodation . I thank the hon . member for give way , and I commend my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) for secure this excellent debate . it be great to welcome he back to his place ; he bring a wealth of expertise in this area . I also welcome the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) to his place . I hope that he understand some of the issue that have be raise in this debate , give that he be a close neighbour of ours . I welcome the cross - party co - operation that we be see from hon . member across the House this evening — although not so much from the Conservative Benches , unfortunately . Cornwall face a real housing emergency , and it be critical that we work together to fix it . as my hon . Friend mention , we must finally move away from build more and more executive housing that have little to no infrastructure , and focus on local need . order . I remind the hon . member that intervention should be short . do the hon . Member agree that the long - stand Liberal Democrat policy of introduce use class for non - permanent occupancy be a good idea ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I will shortly move on to some of the way in which we can deal with the proliferation of second home and holiday let , and address the imbalance . I want to reinforce the point that the hon . member for St Ives make about the tax loophole . I think £ 18 million be now lose in council tax because so many housing provider have take advantage of the loophole whereby they can claim business grant and the zero rate of exemption , rather than pay council tax , if their house be let out for 10 week of the year . as the hon . Member say , so much money be lose in business grant during covid . I think £ 170 million in business grant go to property that be register as holiday let . I want to mention my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , who can not speak in this debate . he have work hard with we in Cornwall on the issue of protect first home , rather than second home , and he have support we , as I know that the same issue apply up in Devon . we have speak with the Minister about potentially have a toolkit of measure that could be use to deal with issue relate to second home and holiday let . I know that our Government will introduce one of those measure : the licensing of holiday let , hopefully with fee and safety check on those let , which be not do at the moment — some property be not check for fire safety , or for safety in any way . that be a massive loophole that need to be deal with . the hon . member for St Ives talk about planning requirement . the previous Government have a review on introduce a use class for holiday let — but then do not do very much about it — so that be one possible measure . the default could be second home owner have to apply for a change of use if they flip their home to holiday let . on the c5 category , and far to the excellent point that my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) make , the last Government tinker with this , announce and reannounce on many occasion a proposal to introduce a use class for holiday let , but do the hon . Lady not agree that that would be far well if it apply to all non - permanent occupancy , whether second home or holiday let ? otherwise , there will continually be flip from one to the other to avoid regulation . I thank the hon . member for that point . I want to talk about council tax in particular , because , strangely , one of the few thing that the entire council agree on — we have a conservative council in Cornwall at the moment — be double the council tax on empty second home . in fact , we write to the Secretary of State at the time to ask whether we could triple the council tax on second home , as they do in Labour Wales — that be a very unusual thing to do . of course , as have be discuss , this be about look at close the loophole so that the owner of the property can not flip between business rate and council tax . that would mean an £ 18 million a year gain in council taxis . I agree with the hon . member that we should encourage co - operative and community housing in Cornwall . that be very popular , and if it be support more , there would be a great deal more of it . in fact , our cabinet housing member in Cornwall have say that if every village build 10 home , that would deal with the housing crisis completely . discourage hope value , particularly in certain part of Cornwall , would be very helpful . I know that force developer to deliver their affordable rather than rely on the viability defence be part of the Government ' s plan , because so often developer get to a point and say that they can not afford to build the affordable house that they promise . another real problem be that the cost of building have shoot up because the contractor in Cornwall have drop in number and have become a great deal more expensive . I congratulate the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) on secure this important debate , and I commend he for the forceful but thoughtful case he make on behalf of his constituent . he have considerable experience and expertise when it come to housing policy and practice , and I listen with great interest to his view and many of his proposal . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) for her incisive contribution and all those who have add to the debate this evening . there be clearly a fierce clarity of purpose on both side of the House in respect of meet housing need across the county , and I assure all hon . member present that the Government be resolve to do what be necessary to ensure that that can happen . it would also be remiss of I not to acknowledge my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) . he be not a Cornish MP , but his constituency suffer from many of the challenge that hon . member have touch on ; indeed , he be impact by the challenge come from Cornwall . he have be a champion over many year for bold action to tackle the housing crisis across the south - west . as we have hear , the housing crisis in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly be acute . eye - water house price - to - earning ratio be put home ownership out of the reach of most local people ; an overheated and shrink private rent sector be place a severe strain on local economy as well as family and community ; and social housing waiting list be grow steadily . I recognise that second home and short - term let be not the sole cause of those pressure , but none of they can be properly understand without take into account the sharp increase in the number of second home and short - term let in the county over recent year — an issue to which I will return in due course . in the time available to I — there be more of it than I expect when I draft this speech — I want to provide the hon . Gentleman and other hon . member represent cornish seat with an overview of the Government ' s think in this area , and a sense of how we intend to address the challenge around housing availability in the county , with the caveat that there be a limit to the detail I can provide at this point , give that we be a new government still consider the good option to achieve our aim . the cause of England ' s housing crisis be multiple , but among the most important be our singular failure as a nation to build enough home of all tenure . that be why this Government be determined to do what be necessary to get the country build again , include by ensure that we put in place a planning system gear towards meet housing need in full . on our propose reform to the national planning policy framework , I acknowledge the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about the introduction of mandatory housing target , and I appreciate that he make a nuanced argument , but I be afraid that I be unconvinced by it . the fact that the distribution of home in his constituency be create significant challenge for the community he represent be not , in my view , an argument against ensure that sufficiently ambitious target be in place to boost housing supply . rather , it be an argument for make sure that local planning authority have the full set of tool they need to manage those distributional challenge , and to plan for development in line with their target in a way that meet local need . will the Minister give consideration to the hypothesis to which the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) allude , which be that build the wrong kind of housing in Cornwall can beget demand for the kind of housing that we have so struggle to build — namely , truly affordable and social home ? I thank my hon . friend for that point . I acknowledge the pressure and the challenge . we need to give local authority the tool to shape the type of development undertake — not only through their local plan — and to get a grip on excessive concentration of second home and short - term let . that be the Government ' s intention . on the NPPF and housing target , it be the Government ' s consider view that we need to act to increase supply in all part of the country , and need to take step to ensure that the housing market respond to the need of community . these be complementary , not conflict , policy intention . I entirely endorse the sentiment of what the Minister be try to do , but this be about practicality . there be enormous opportunity for unscrupulous developer to use the NPPF as a Trojan horse , so that they can crowbar in significant lottery - like win on land . if someone can convert an agricultural acre into an open market acre of development land , they do not need to work for a living ; they just need to keep shove in planning application , and they will make a lot of money . have some intermediate measure by which we can deliver affordable home on that land be surely the way forward . I will touch on rural exception site , and the land market in particular , but I come back to the point that none of that negate the need for ambitious housing target , via consent and oversupply consent , to ensure that we build the number of home that we need , but I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point and will address it directly in short order . I shall start with land value , because the hon . Gentleman have raise a concern , not only in this place but in other forum , about our propose change to national planning policy potentially place upward pressure on land value , thereby frustrate our objective . we fully appreciate the risk , which be why we be committed to far strengthen the system of developer contribution and to the reform of compulsory purchase compensation rule . indeed , just today I bring into force regulation that allow action to be take on hope value , where require in the public interest , but we will go far in the forthcoming planning and infrastructure Bill . the hon . Gentleman touch on rural exception site . the Government very much recognise that people live in rural area often face challenge find adequate affordable housing . ensure robust support for the necessary housing in rural area be essential to support the broad sustainability of rural community . the national planning policy framework be already clear that plan policy and decision should support opportunity to bring forward small site for affordable housing in rural area . these rural exception site should help to meet the housing need of rural community , enable local people , and those with family or employment connection , to live locally and help sustain thriving place . however , I want to go far in support rural affordable housing . in the consultation on the propose reform to the NPPF , launch on 13 July , we be actively seek view on what measure we should consider to well support an increase in affordable housing development in rural area , and I very much welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s engagement with that . I will take away his point on cross - subsidy and give it further consideration . I very much recognise the unique situation on the Isles of Scilly , particularly the challenge to the viability of construction . my official be work closely alongside Homes England to support the council in achieve its housing ambition , and it be important that this close collaboration continue . I also note the wide challenge on the isle and how housing challenge interact with other pressure face by resident . in recognition of this , my official be look to convene a working group with other Departments to highlight the plurality of issue , and to ensure that the Government can well support island resident . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s interest in community - lead housing , include the role of community land trust , and his professional experience in this area . I recognise the role that community ownership of land and affordable home can play in deliver the Government ' s agenda , although I hope that he will recognise that the support we be able to offer must be consider in the round , alongside the full range of departmental programme . again , the Government have set out change to how we plan for the home we need as part of the NPPF consultation , which include proposal design to strengthen support for community - lead housing . I thank the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) for secure this important debate . local resident be be price out of the constituency I represent , the beautiful South East Cornwall , and we do not have the home we need . early this summer , an elderly couple from Torpoint , both in their 90 , be force to live apart for more than four month after an accident at their home leave one in hospital . a lack of suitable housing mean they could not live together . do the Minister agree that we need action on second home so that local people , such as this couple from Torpoint , can benefit from more of the housing that be be build ? my hon . friend pre - empt what I be about to say ; I be just about to address second home and short - term let . I take her point , and I be sorry to hear about the situation in which her constituent from Torpoint find themselves . the Government recognise that this be an area in which more need to be do . both in the constituency of the hon . member for St Ives and in the county more widely , it be beyond doubt that the prevalence of second home and short - term let have constrain the availability of home for local resident to buy and rent , and that it be have a detrimental impact on local service in many area . a balance obviously need to be strike between the benefit that second home and short - term let can and do have for local economy and their impact on local people , but many coastal , rural and indeed urban community be grapple with excessive concentration of such property . when I be shadow Minister for Housing and Planning in the last Parliament , I speak to many colleague who face acute pressure in their constituency , and the feedback we be get from coastal , rural and some urban community make it clear that we have not yet get the balance right . I thank my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) for raise these difficult issue around housing and second home in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly . we have parallel issue in my constituency of South Devon , a little far up the coast . it be apt that we be have this discussion today , after the presentation of Devon Housing Commission ' s report at lunchtime , which highlight many of the issue and just how difficult the situation be in Devon , as in Cornwall . second home be hollow out community in my constituency . like the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , I have have a headteacher and the local hospital — Order . I call the Minister . I thank the hon . Lady and appreciate that she be cut off . as Mr Speaker , Madam Deputy Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers remind we , intervention have to be short , but I be sure we can pick up the conversation outside the Chamber . I recognise the impact on community of the unique challenge that she mention , particularly the excessive concentration of second home and short - term let . the hon . member for St Ives say that the previous Government introduce a limited number of measure in response to concern express in the previous Parliament . in opposition , I welcome those measure , while make it clear that they do not go far enough . that remain my firm view , so although we will progress with measure such as the introduction of a registration scheme for short - term let in England , and the abolishment of the furnished holiday let tax regime , we be also consider what additional power we might give local authority to enable they to well respond to the pressure that they face . I will update the House as soon as I be in a position to . in conclusion , I thank the hon . member for St Ives once again for give the House an opportunity to consider these important matter . I look forward to engage closely with he and all other Cornish Members , so that together we can ensure first home for all local people in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly . question put and agree to . House adjourn .