Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — Future earning : Impact of Socioeconomic Disadvantage what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle the potential impact of socioeconomic disadvantage on future earning . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle the potential impact of socioeconomic disadvantage on future earning . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle the potential impact of socioeconomic disadvantage on future earning . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle the potential impact of socioeconomic disadvantage on future earning . this Government be determined to break the link between background and success . through the opportunity mission and the child poverty taskforce , we will break down the barrier to opportunity for all , by set up every child for the good start in life , help they to achieve and thrive , and building skill for opportunity and growth , so that background be no barrier to success . research from the Bloody Good Period campaign show that one in five woman and girl be now experience period poverty , so not only be there a socioeconomic disadvantage , but a further gender penalty . this gender - base injustice cost the UK billion — some £ 3 . 3 billion — in lose work annually . will the Minister tell the House what the Government be do to tackle period poverty , and be there plan for the taskforce on this to reconvene ? we be tackle the root cause of poverty through measure to make work pay by boost the living wage and investing in our public service , so that no one , include woman , have to go without the essential . there be also lot of great programme that support woman and girl with period product , such as the scheme in my own Department , which provide free product in education setting . proper paternity and maternity pay be essential for break the link between current income and further life opportunity for family . currently , one in five father do not take the paternity leave available to they because it be financially inadequate . inadequate paternity leave drive family inequality , increase the gender pay gap as woman pick up great caring responsibility , and lower household income . do the Minister agree that , while the conservative party might think that pay parental leave be too high , we on the Labour Benches recognise its crucial role in give child the good start in life ? what action be minister consider to well support parent and family ? I strongly agree with my hon . friend that , while the Conservatives have say that they think parental leave be excessive , we want to give family more choice . through the Employment Rights Bill , we will make paternity leave available from day one in a new job and enable it to be take after share parental leave . we be also commit to review the parental leave system to ensure that it well support work family . independent research from the Social Mobility Foundation highlight a stark class pay gap , with professional from working - class background earn , on average , 12 % less than their more privileged counterpart in the same role , and one in 10 people from low socioeconomic background find it difficult to get high - skilled managerial and professional occupation . despite the fact that socioeconomic background remain one of the big determinant in chance for life for young people in this country , few large organisation monitor it . will the Minister consider mandate large organisation to monitor socioeconomic background , so that we can properly highlight social mobility and give it the attention that it deserve ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern in this area , which be why we be commit to enact the socioeconomic duty of the Equality Act 2010 , and we shall give more information on this in due course . I also encourage business and organisation to collect datum where they can , so that we can take action to tackle some of those deep - root inequality that my hon . friend describe . Merry Christmas to you and yours , Mr Speaker . there be a clear link between low household income and poor educational outcome lead to reduce future earning . in Stoke - on - Trent , median pay be nearly £ 70 less per week than the England average . do the Minister agree that tackle regional income inequality be critical if we be to promote social mobility and to enable all of our people to succeed in life ? I agree with my hon . friend that it be absolutely crucial that we take action on regional inequality . he champion that cause very strongly on his constituent ' behalf . he will know that we have set out an ambitious plan for the future of the minimum wage , and we be take action to make sure that all worker receive more money in their pocket to spend . he also draw our attention to the importance of child have a great start in life , which be why we as a Government be commit to make sure that more child than ever arrive at school and get the support they need , so that , by the end of reception , they be ready to move on to the next stage in their journey . in the City of London , one of the big remain challenge be to ensure that the maximum number of people from the wide socioeconomic background can get into that industry . recently , I meet people from Progress together . Vincent Keaveny , a recent Lord Mayor of the City of London , have make massive progress to understand that the data collection process do not need to be expensive . will the Secretary of State get in touch with her ministerial colleague and the Financial Conduct Authority to alert they to the opportunity to collect datum at little expense , which would really raise the profile of the remain challenge ? I be more than happy to do that . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his work in this area and the attention that he have draw to it , because it be a cause that we can all get behind . there be more that employer can be ask to do , as he describe , and more that we can do as a Government . that be why it be important that all young people have access to good work experience and career guidance , so that they understand the full range of opportunity out there in the world . woman carer be far more likely to reduce their work hour or give up work entirely to look after their love one , put they at a significant financial disadvantage . do the Secretary of State agree that the Lib Dem policy to reform social care and introduce free personal care would keep more woman in work for long ? I understand the hon . Lady ' s important point . she will know that in the Budget we increase the threshold for the carer ' s allowance and deliver a big boost to the payment that people can receive , but I understand the wide challenge that she set out around social care . that be why the Health Secretary be take action to ensure that we transform social care across our country . I be sure that Ministers would be happy to discuss that with she far . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , introduce to the House yesterday , set out to unpick every aspect of the school reform that have lead english school child to rocket up the international league table in English , math and science . how can the Government possibly say that they want to break down barrier to opportunity when they be reverse reform that have transform the life of the most disadvantaged student ? I do not know which Bill the hon . Lady have be read , but it be not the Bill that we present to the House yesterday . I be determined to drive high and rise standard right across our school system . she might be satisfied that one in four disadvantaged child leave primary school without reach a good standard in English and math , but I be not happy about that . nor be I happy about the fact that one in five child be persistently absent from school and that we inherit a special educational need and disability system in crisis . we will turn that around , and deliver well life chance for all our child . low - earn woman be far less likely to have sufficient private pension than their male counterpart . be that why the Secretary of State decide that governmental responsibility end when work age end ? the hon . Lady raise an important point about some of the difference in pension . I be more than happy to pick that up with the relevant Minister to ensure that she receive a full response . I call the shadow Minister . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . here ' s to festive tipple in our local , but it be certainly not a cheery Christmas for the Women against State Pension Inequality , whom Labour have betray . hospitality be at the heart of our economy , with a diverse workforce : 17 % of the sector ' s worker be disabled under the Equality Act 2010 ; 20 % be from ethnic minority group ; and over 54 % be woman . will the Secretary of State tell the House what conversation have take place between she and the Chancellor on the chilling effect on future earning of the Labour Government ' s job tax and high business rate , underpin by £ 3 . 4 billion of increase cost accord to ukhospitality , which will drive down future earning ? I agree that the hospitality sector be crucial to our economy , and at this time of the year , when many people will be work across Christmas , I pay tribute to they for their work and thank they for their contribution to our economy . on her wide question , the hon . Lady know as well as I do that the Government inherit a £ 22 billion black hole from the conservative party . we have have to make some difficult decision in order to stabilise our economy and get it back on track . tackle violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . the Government be relentless in our effort to halve violence against woman and girl . in just five and a half month in office , we have launch domestic abuse protection order in select area , outline new measure enhance our response to stalk , and announce £ 30 million in extra funding for victim of domestic abuse and their family in safe accommodation service — and that be simply the beginning . we will continue at that pace . violence against woman and girl remain a serious issue , worsen by online abuse , misinformation and a harmful rhetoric that risk increase violence . in my constituency of Burton and Uttoxeter , the Sexual Abuse Rape Advice Centre provide vital support to survivor , while work to challenge those attitude and promote cultural change . give the crucial role of charity like SARAC , what step be the Minister take to support such organisation , and will she visit SARAC with I so she can see its amazing work ? at these question I always end up halfway around the country , but I would be delighted to come . have work in this sector , I know that we will not tackle violence against woman and girl without a strong and sustainable model that ensure our specialist service be protect . that be what we will work on in the long term , rather than what have always be a short - termist approach . Ultra - realistic deepfake porn be increasingly be use to target woman , and I know the Government agree because they commit to criminalise it in their manifesto . for the sake of victim , intimate image abuse need to be tackle without delay , so why on earth do the Government not back Baroness Owen ' s Bill in the House of Lords to ban it last Friday ? the Minister be a great talker ; she talk a good game , but for the sake of woman , when will she deliver ? as somebody who go into the Home Office and find a load of thing that be say at this Dispatch Box dwindle and leave undo for three year , I take umbrage . the Government will do exactly what we say we will do and will ban deepfake in this session . as a victim of it myself , I understand the importance . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . violence against woman and girl take many form — verbal , physical , emotional , financial — and at all age , but one of the most insidious form be online abuse . with technology develop fast than legislation can respond , the way it be be use , such as deepfake , be also develop fast than legislation can respond , and the use of generative AI to create fake intimate image leave many woman vulnerable . I know the Minister care deeply about this , so can she tell we what step the Government will take to ensure that it be tackle properly ? will she work with Cabinet colleague to create a new online crime agency to deal with that threat ? funnily enough , I be meet Cabinet Office colleague later today to talk exactly about how we ensure the violence against woman and girl strategy be across different department . without doubt , one of the most important pillar of that strategy be how we will deal with the online harm . we all wait with bated breath to see how the legislation and the new regulation play out , but we will not draw the line at the legislation that already exist , and where we need to adapt , we will . ban Conversion Practices what step she be take to ban conversion practice . what step she be take to ban conversion practice . conversion practice be abuse . they have no place in society and must be stop . the Conservatives promise to ban conversion practice six year ago and fail to deliver . they then drop it from their manifesto this summer . we be get on with the job and work hard on legislation to deliver a trans - inclusive ban that offer protection from those harmful practice , while preserve the freedom of individual to explore their identity and respect the important role of those support they . we will publish our draft Bill later this session , as outline in the King ' s Speech . conversion practice trade and prosper on fear , prejudice and intolerance . charity in Weston - super - Mare and across this country do amazing work to bring community together to promote tolerance and tackle prejudice . will the Minister outline what support the Government be provide to help charity deliver that vital work in constituency like mine ? my hon . friend be right that civil society play a unique role in challenge prejudice and enable more people to access the opportunity they deserve . a good example be Galop , the UK ' s lead LGBT + anti - violence charity , which provide a number of government - fund support service , include on conversion practice . its helpline be confidential and available to anyone who be at risk of , be experience or have be through a conversion practice . last week , I hold a meeting in Parliament with a panel of trans people talk about their experience of so - call conversion therapy , and their evidence be harrowing . I thank the mps and the Minister who attend that meeting to listen to they . I be lead on a report for the Council of Europe to ban those abhorrent practice across Europe , and I be pleased to hear from the Minister that we will soon be set out the legislation . will the legislation be fully inclusive , without any exception , so that we can refer to it as good practice for all country to use ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work in this field , include on the Council of Europe . I can assure she that we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to bring forward a full trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice , protect LGBT + people from abuse . we be commit to listen to all viewpoint and concern with respect , and to engage with a wide range of stakeholder , organisation and all LGBT + community . I be very pleased to join she at the event she mention . we will engage far with parliamentarian and stakeholder in the new year . the previous Government commit to a parent - first approach to guidance . as part of the Government ' s review of the statutory relationship , sex and health education guidance , will the Minister make it clear that parent should be involve in decision that affect their child , include if their child be gender - questioning ? as the hon . Lady will be well aware , we be look at the consultation response and will respond fully as be appropriate . in roll out any legislation , will the Minister ensure that mature adult who , of their own volition , want to take part in discussion of gender issue in faith - base setting will not be restrict or inhibit from so do ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be look carefully at how to describe the sort of behaviour that would not be criminalise by the ban . discrimination against ethnic Minorities what step she be take to help end discrimination against ethnic minority people . the Government be commit to break down the barrier of opportunity for all , and to race equality throughout Government , so that our mission deliver for everyone . we be work on our plan to legislate to introduce mandatory ethnicity pay group report for large employer , and to enshrine in law the right to equal pay for ethnic minority people . those measure be announce as part of the draft Equality ( Race and Disability ) Bill , on which we will consult early next year . I commend the Government for their commitment to tackle discrimination by introduce ethnicity pay gap reporting for large employer , for example . nearly 80 % of my Ilford South constituent be from black , asian and minority ethnic background , and the community be disproportionately impact by condition such as diabete . what be the Government do to tackle health inequality and disparity among minority ethnic individual ? my hon . friend raise a vital issue on behalf of his constituent . the cross - Government approach that we be take to tackle the root cause of health inequality be central to our health mission , and include prioritise prevention and shift care close to community . on type 2 diabetes , the NHS have develop a focused engagement campaign to raise awareness among group that be most likely to develop that condition . he may wish to connect with that campaign . I wish you a merry Christmas and a good new year when it come , Mr Speaker . I be astonish that the vacillate Prime Minister do not take the opportunity to definitively rule out blasphemy law , which have no place in modern british society . this be the land of " Monty Python ' s Life of Brian " after all . will the Minister take the opportunity to do what the Prime Minister would not by completely rule out the introduction of blasphemy law ? yes . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . follow this summer ' s racist riot , the Runnymede Trust report that Islamophobia be reach fever pitch , with mosque attack and threaten , and car vandalise with Nazi swastikas . all that have leave many Muslims feel unsafe , but it be especially true for woman , who have report have hijab pull off , suffer racist abuse and be threaten with physical violence . we will all have hear of such incident from our constituent , but the extent to which Islamophobia and misogyny be systemic in the structure that we rely on mean that muslim woman bear the brunt of the intersectional hatred of the far right and sometimes , sadly , the mainstream medium . do the Minister see the need for an agree definition of " Islamophobia " that understand its impact on muslim woman ? Islamophobia , sexism and racism have no place in our society , and my hon . friend will be aware that we have commit to strengthen protection against dual discrimination . the Minister for safeguarding , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , be work on address hate crime against muslim woman . I be also pleased that my hon . friend ' s Committee will be undertake work on the specific challenge face muslim woman in the UK today , and I look forward to follow that work . I recently meet a group of woman from Bangladeshi origin in my constituency who be desperately try to find work , which be not easy , especially after the decimation of the textile industry in Leicester South . as English be not their first language , and as not all potential employer have the capacity or time to meet the Department for Work and Pensions ' demand for write proof of job application and interview , they be find it extremely stressful and it be affect their mental health , especially when they be threaten with sanction . do the Minister agree that more empathy need to be build into the system ? the hon . Gentleman have raise an important point , and I will ensure that he have a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss it . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister for Women and Equalities have say that background should be no barrier to success , but what message do it send to our young people when they be tell that there be some job opportunity they can not apply for solely base on the colour of their skin ? equality in this country must mean equality of opportunity , not put some people in society on a pedestal above other , so will the Minister write to all public body to make it crystal clear that the state should not be sanction race - base hire policy ? the right hon . Lady will be aware that it be illegal to discriminate in the way she have describe . I will certainly ensure that her question be follow up with the relevant colleague . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . early this month the Government set out our " plan for Change " — a plan to raise living standard for everyone . everyone should have access to warm home , a revitalise nhs and opportunity to thrive at work , and they should feel safe on our street . I be proud to be drive our mission to ensure that background be no barrier to success and that every child have the good start in life . this week mark the end of Disability History Month , during which my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability have meet disabled people and disabled people ' s organisation and set up a network of lead Ministers for disability across every Government Department . last week I visit Northamptonshire Domestic Abuse Service , where we discuss estimate that report incident of domestic abuse in the UK spike up to 20 % during the Christmas period . what be the Government do to ensure that those affect by domestic violence can get support at this time of year ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question , and I pay tribute to the work of Northamptonshire Domestic Abuse Service and everyone work across domestic violence and sexual abuse service this Christmas . I know from my own experience of work in such service over the Christmas period how busy it can be , but I want to send a message to all victim that support be always there when they need it , even at Christmas , and the police will always respond when call . where there be serious concern , people should know that they be not alone at Christmas , and that help and support be always available . I call the shadow Minister . turn a blind eye to the risk face by vulnerable people in the name of inclusivity be anything but compassionate . we know that cousin marriage significantly increase the risk of birth defect and lock woman into coercive relationship . my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) have table sensible legislation to ban this practice . why will the Government not support it ? the Government will of course always keep such issue under review , and I will ensure that the Minister in the relevant Department speak with the right hon . Lady on this topic . Merry Christmas . I recently attend a Royal National Institute of Blind People event highlight the challenge face by blind and visually impair people navigate past park car , force they to walk into the road . my inspirational wife be one of those people , who take her life into her own hand every time she walk into the road . what will the Government do to help make our street safe and more navigable in future ? my hon . friend raise a good example of the kind of topic we need to work on across Government , and I be pleased to chair the first meeting of the cross - Government disability lead Ministers yesterday . the Department for Transport have consult on this problem , which can be very serious for people with a sight impairment , and be consider the option for tackle it . I very much hope that my hon . friend will let I know what he find out in his walk around his constituency shortly . I call Gregory Stafford . hear , hear ! it be always nice to get a cheer , Mr Speaker . as a former treasurer of the Oxford Union , I be disgusted that three week ago a debate descend into a mess of antisemitism , when a majority of the student vote that they would not have report Hamas ' s plan if they have know of they prior to the 7 October attack . will the Minister write to the Oxford Union and say that antisemitism have no place in our society , especially not in our university ? the Government could not have be clear about our position on antisemitism : there be no place for antisemitism in our society , nor for any form of racism . that apply whether it be in educational setting or in any other part of our society , and that have be make very clear indeed . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 18 December . yesterday I meet the brave man and woman serve on HMS Iron Duke and the troop serve in Operation Cabrit in Estonia . this Christmas , as every Christmas , member of our armed force will be serve overseas , work day and night to protect Britain ' s national security . I know that the whole House will join I in send our deep thank to they , to our emergency service and to everyone work to keep the country safe over the festive period . Mr Speaker , may I also take this opportunity , at the end of the year , to thank you and the House staff for all your hard work this year , and can I wish everyone across the House a merry Christmas and a happy new year ? this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . may I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark ? in 2021 , Ceri and Frances Menai - Davis , who live in my constituency of North East Hertfordshire and be in the Gallery today , tragically lose their son , Hugh , at the age of just six to a rare form of cancer . now they be courageously campaign to ensure that every parent who must leave work to look after a sick child in hospital get the financial support they need from day one . will the Prime Minister meet they and I to discuss implement Hugh ' s law , and give their son a legacy that improve the life of family at the most difficult time imaginable ? can I pay tribute to Ceri and Frances — it be a heartbreaking case — and commend they for their campaign on behalf of other family ? I know that the Minister for Social Security and Disability meet the family yesterday , but no parent should endure lose their child to cancer , particularly at such a young age . we be invest £ 1 . 5 billion for new surgical hub and scanner , and £ 70 million for new radiotherapy machine , and we will set out our next step on the child and young people cancer taskforce shortly . I call the Leader of the Opposition . can I send my warm wish to our armed force at home and overseas , to the emergency service , and to everyone who will be work over Christmas ? can I wish you , Mr Speaker , the House staff and all member of this House a very merry Christmas ? for year , the Prime Minister and his Cabinet play politic with the WASPI woman — the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign . the Deputy Prime Minister say the Conservatives be steal their pension . she promise to compensate they in full — another broken promise . now , they admit that we be right all along . but let we ask about another group of pensioner whose trust be break . since the Chancellor cut winter fuel payment , how many extra people have apply for pension credit ? the no . 1 job of this Government be to put the finance back in order after the last Government lose control . they leave a £ 22 billion black hole and we have to take tough choice . we make sure that the most vulnerable pensioner do get the winter fuel payment , and we have be encourage they , drive up eligibility for pension credit and people sign up to their entitlement . the Leader of the Opposition should join that campaign . here be the difference : because we have stabilise the economy , we can commit to the triple lock . that mean that next April pensioner will get another £ 470 . here be the difference : two week ago , the shadow Chancellor say that the triple lock be " unsustainable " . their position be that pensioner would lose out under the Tories yet again . the Prime Minister do not answer the question because he do not know the answer . there be 850 , 000 eligible pensioner not claim pension credit . if they sign up , that will cost the Treasury £ 2 . 3 billion , wipe out the saving that the Chancellor claim she would make . before the election , the Prime Minister ' s Chief Secretary to the Treasury tell the public that Labour have no plan to cut winter fuel payment , but they do have plan , didn ' t they ? Age UK say : " cut the Winter Fuel Payment , with very little notice … will potentially jeopardise the health , as well as the finance , of million of old people " . do the Prime Minister agree with Age UK that this be the last thing that pensioner and the NHS need ? we have be drive take - up with the campaign for pension credit . it be important that everyone who be entitle to it claim that pension credit . the Leader of the opposition should not claim as some great victory that the record of her Government be that people have not sign up . we be the one with the campaign , and the Tories should be support it . because of the triple lock , pension will be go up by £ 470 next April . she have not answer the question . her shadow Chancellor say that the triple lock be " unsustainable " , so she need to explain how pensioner would be bad off under a Tory Government . order . it be Prime Minister ' s question . we protect the triple lock during all our time in government . meanwhile , energy bill be increase , despite the Prime Minister ' s promise to cut they by £ 300 . in Scotland , his party leader want to restore the winter fuel payment . across England , council be scrabble together fund for struggle pensioner . the tragic reality this Christmas be that pensioner will suffer and may even die as a result of this cruel policy . do the Chancellor consider the impact on council and on the NHS , or do she just not know what she be do ? the household support fund be set out in the Budget , as the Leader of the Opposition know . we be push up pension credit . she now say that the Conservatives be commit to the triple lock . her shadow Chancellor say that they be not and that it be " unsustainable " . perhaps over a sandwich or a steak they could sort it out and come back and tell we what their policy actually be . the Prime Minister need to misrepresent I in order to make his point ; I do not need to misrepresent he in order to make mine . the truth be that he do not think this through . cut winter fuel payment be not just callous ; it may not make saving and it could actually cost we all more . it be not the only policy that be make thing bad . the Chancellor ' s Budget be a body blow to family business and charity . Marie Curie have warn that Labour ' s Budget will cost it nearly £ 3 million a year . that be a cancer charity say that it have no option but to reduce service . do the Chancellor tell the Prime Minister that her job tax be go to hit charity ? the Leader of the Opposition have ask three question about winter fuel — [ interruption . ] I will come to that . she have change her mind . she use to say that the payment be a " dead weight " . she say that she have constituent who do not need they . they all stand in 2017 on a Tory manifesto that commit to get rid of the universal winter fuel payment for pensioner . we can see what their real commitment be — [ interruption . ] as for the Budget , we be drive up productivity across — [ interruption . ] order . I do not want to have to ring the hon . Gentleman ' s mother . we be drive up productivity , prosperity and living standard . that be a pay rise for the 3 million lowest - pay — the Tories should welcome that — a pay rise for those work in the NHS , and well than expect wage growth just before Christmas . what unite all three be that they be deliver by Labour but oppose by the Tories . I do not know what world the Prime Minister be live in . the economy be shrink , and the Government do not think this job tax through or who it would impact . another area affect be the hospice sector . hospice believe that the Budget will cost they an extra £ 30 million . yesterday , conservative vote to exempt social care , nursery , charity and hospice from Labour ' s job tax . Labour vote that down . can the Prime Minister at least agree to fund hospice so that they can continue their invaluable work help people at the end of their life ? we have put a record amount into the NHS in the Budget to deal with the problem that the Conservatives leave . we will set out the funding arrangement for hospice in the new year . but it be the same old , same old : they want all the benefit from the Budget , as she have say herself , but she do not want to pay for any of they . that be what get we into the problem in the first place . I do not hear a commitment to help hospice , which be a shame . the truth be that this winter people will be suffer because of the Prime Minister ' s choice . the economy be shrink , inflation be go up and job be be lose because of his Budget . Pensioners will be unable to heat their home because of his Government ' s decision . they raise people ' s hope but then smash they with broken promise . and now we learn that he be about to give away our hard - win Brexit freedom — [ interruption . ] yes — the truth be that Labour be punch the british people in the face — literally , in the case of one of his mps . he will pretend this be about the past , but we all know that these be his choice — bad choice . if he be look for a new year ' s resolution , why do he not start with tell the truth ? I will do it now . a £ 22 billion black hole leave by the Conservatives , record number on the waiting list — [ interruption . ] order . it be not a good time to leave the Chamber , be it ? a £ 22 billion black hole , record waiting list in our NHS — Conservative Members should hang their head in shame — and immigration completely out of control , with nearly a million net migration . the Leader of the Opposition be the cheerleader for all of that . she want the truth — that be the truth . that be why the Conservatives be sit on the Opposition Benches . while conservative Members carp from the sideline , talk the country down , this Government be get on with the job : record funding for the NHS ; money for our train , bus and , yes , pothole ; pay rise for 3 million of the lowest - pay ; wage grow fast than inflation ; plan law reform ; and great british Energy set up . we be only get start . next year we will continue to rebuild , no matter what the blocker opposite say . I echo the Prime Minister in thank you , Mr Speaker , and all the staff in this place , alongside our armed force and emergency service , and wish they a merry Christmas . March 2025 mark 20 year since the death of the only Member of Parliament to have hold all four great office of state : Foreign Secretary , Home Secretary , Chancellor and Prime Minister . James Callaghan be a true Portsmouth great who go to the same school as another true Portsmouth great : my dad , Terry Nolan . do the Prime Minister back my bid for a plaque to be add to his former home in Copnor ? will he come along to Portsmouth next year to unveil it ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . Jim Callaghan be a giant of the Labour movement and a great public servant . he leave school at 17 and serve in our Royal Navy before become Home Secretary , Foreign Secretary , Chancellor and , of course , finally Prime Minister . I be sure that he , as a proud son of Portsmouth , would be honour to be remember in such a way . [ interruption . ] happy Christmas . order . let I just say to Mr Mayhew that I keep hear you . I hear you the other week when you be sit to my side , and I be hear you again over there . it not a good time to push your luck . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I join the Prime Minister in his praise and good wish for our armed force and emergency service , and I join other in wish you , Mr Speaker , a happy Christmas , along with all the staff of the Commons and everyone across the House [ Hon . member : " sing it ! " ] I will sing in a minute . I have have the great joy of spending time recently with some amazing young people from the Bath Philharmonia young carer choir . they be a brilliant example of the power of music to make a difference in young people ' s life . one member , Caitlyn , have even develop a special new project to spread the joy of music to young people in our school and community . will the Prime Minister meet Caitlyn to hear more about her exciting project , and will he work with we and other to support music in our school and community ? I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment . as he will know , today we be introduce the landmark Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to enable all child to succeed , include young carer . we increase pupil premium funding to over £ 2 . 9 billion , which can be use to support pupil , include carer , with identify need . as he know , now that young carer be on the school census — and have be since 2023 — they have great visibility , and school will be well able to identify and support they . the right hon . Gentleman talk of singing ; there be carol outside our front door on Monday , and my family be surprised to see he shamelessly plug his song . we have strict rule about antisocial behaviour , but in the spirit of the season , I simply say , " happy Christmas " . I wish the Prime Minister a happy Christmas . I thank he for allow the young carer choir to sing outside no . 10 , and I hope that he and the staff enjoy it . our song be call " love be Enough " , but the hard truth be that for many young carer and young adult carer , love be not enough . these amazing young people need real action to help they with the challenge that they face . in addition to the measure that the Prime Minister just talk about , will he support the Carers Trust ' s young carer covenant , to ensure that , across local authority , we give these young people all the support that they deserve ? we should support these young people , and we continue to work across the sector to ensure that all school identify , support and record datum on young carer . we boost the carer ' s allowance in the Budget . I agree with the right hon . gentleman on those young carer . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark and wish everyone a very happy Christmas , but for many of those in temporary accommodation in my constituency and across the country it will not be a happy Christmas . on the Tories ' watch , temporary homelessness more than double , so what be the Government do to support family and child live in temporary accommodation , particularly this season ? my hon . friend be right about the appalling inheritance , which include record number sleep rough and almost 160 , 000 child live in temporary accommodation . we be deliver nearly £ 1 billion to council to tackle homelessness , include increase funding in Bolton over the next year . that include dedicated support with housing , mental health and employment . we be also committed to tackle the root cause , which be why we be build 1 . 5 million new home and abolish section 21 no - fault eviction — something the Conservatives say they would do and repeatedly fail to . in 2022 , the Prime Minister support call for fair and fast compensation for 1950 woman impact by the change to the state pension . yet , just yesterday , his Government reject those same call out of hand . be that what the Prime Minister mean when he promise to lead a Government of change ? this be a serious issue . between 2005 and 2007 , there be a 28 - month delay in letter to woman bear in 1950 about change to pension age — that be unacceptable , and it be right that the Government apologise . in 2011 , the former Chancellor George Osborne then accelerate those change with very little notice . that , equally , be unacceptable , and Labour oppose it at the time . [ interruption . ] it be a serious issue , and a complex one . as the hon . Gentleman know , the research show that 90 % of those impact know about the change that be take place . I be afraid to say that the taxpayer simply can not afford the ten of billion of pound in compensation when the evidence show that 90 % of those impact know about the change . that be because of the state of our economy . recent datum show that almost 11 , 000 scot have be wait more than two year for hospital treatment since their referral . the equivalent number in England be around 113 . do the Prime Minister agree that that show the catastrophic damage the SNP Government have do to the scottish NHS ? my hon . friend be right that the SNP be let down patient in Scotland . as the Scottish Auditor General say , " great leadership " be need in the scottish NHS . waiting list target be be miss , spend on agency staff be skyrocket , and delay to patient discharge be hit record level . [ interruption . ] SNP Members seem to be proud of that appalling record . we have provide the money , and they have the power — they have run out of excuse . since the summer , thousand of commuter use Harlington and Flitwick station have have to put up with nearly 8 % of train be cancel in the evening peak , while nearly a third of train that do arrive be more than five minute late . be it a mere coincidence that such poor performance follow this Government ' s decision to pay off their union backer with no string attach ? the train and all travel be in an appalling state under the previous Government , and we be clear that up . we be fix it , and the hon . Gentleman should welcome that . the parliamentary ombudsman conclude that an injustice be do to 1950 - bear woman and rule that they be owe compensation , and ask Parliament to intervene to deliver justice . I have more than 5 , 000 woman affect in my constituency . alongside a great many member in this House , I believe these woman be owe compensation for the injustice do to they at the hand of the state . will the Prime Minister give member the opportunity to vote on whether they believe WASPI woman be owe compensation ? I have just set out the factual background and the percentage who know about the change . the simple fact of the matter be that in the current economic circumstance , the taxpayer can not bear the burden of ten of billion of pound in compensation . [ interruption . ] opposition member be chuntere away , but , in 14 year , they accelerate the change and never once speak about compensation . my constituent Caroline and Savannah be just two of thousand across Devon , Cornwall and beyond who be live with postural tachycardia syndrome and have be unable to access adequate treatment since the retirement of the only consultant available to work with they in July . what action can the Prime Minister take to help I secure the treatment that my constituent need , and will he agree to meet I and they to discuss the treatment of pots in more detail ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important issue on behalf of her constituent . it underline the critical nature of the NHS workforce plan that we will deliver next summer to ensure that the expert workforce be in place and get the NHS back on its foot . I be proud that we be invest an additional £ 22 . 6 billion to fix our NHS . I will of course ensure she get a meeting with the relevant Minister to deal with the issue of concern to her constituent . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s comment and express my gratitude to all those who serve our community over Christmas . I give special credit to foster carer in Nuneaton and across the UK for the incredibly important role that they play . we know that their care transform life . however , foster carer in Nuneaton tell I that there be simply not the support that there use to be , and that more than 17 % of child be wait more than four year for care . I be recently make aware of one child who have have nine home placement before the end of key stage 1 . can the Prime Minister ensure there will be a robust system to provide consistent and swift care when need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue , because every single child deserve the good start in life and there be far too many shocking case of child be let down . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be be introduce today . that put child ' s interest at the heart of Government policy and I hope it will be support across the House . Labour promise not to raise taxis on work people , but farmer be some of the hard - work people I know . Peter Douglas from Jedburgh have look at the detail of this policy and he say that Labour ' s inheritance tax increase will prevent he pass on his family farm to his son and daughter . they say Labour have betray they and can not trust the Prime Minister to keep his word . they ' ve get a point , haven ' t they ? if the hon . Gentleman would kindly pass the detail of the individual case he have raise to my team , we will look into it . as he know , we put a record £ 5 billion into farming over the next two year in the Budget . just two week ago , £ 350 million be put in to support farmer . that contrast with the £ 300 million underspend of the last government on farming . in a typical case , the threshold be £ 3 million , which mean that the vast majority of farmer will be unaffected , but I will look into the individual case he have raise with I . I recently speak to a man in Worksop whose son ' s arm be badly break when he be knock off his bicycle by an off - road biker speeding on the pavement — dress in black , no number plate , totally unidentifiable . the young boy no long go out to play . his experience be not unique . what action be be take to smash the bike , and put police back on our street ? I be glad my hon . friend have raise that , because off - road bike be a complete nuisance under the last government and get completely out of control . we be introduce new respect order to crack down on off - road bike , strengthen police power in relation to deal with this big problem that get out of control under the last government . we will also deliver 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police to ensure that we keep control of our street — something that be lose under the last government . last week , the royal borough of Windsor and Maidenhead announce plan to hike council tax by an unprecedented 25 % . that would require the Government ' s permission . do the Prime Minister agree that this outrageous request should be reject , that the borough might be a candidate for accelerated local government reorganisation , and that my constituent should not be foot the bill for the persistent weak financial control and political failure locally ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue on behalf of his constituent . we be , as he know , commit to fix the foundation of local government and keep taxis as low as possible for work people . the Budget announce a real - term increase for local government , with over £ 4 billion of add funding . we will put that support in place , and he be right to raise that issue . we have in our NHS many brilliant é migr é and refugee surgeon from the greatly troubled middle east , and I have be privileged to work alongside some of they from Iran , Iraq and from Syria , which we think especially now . what practical measure can the UK take to help ensure that Syria now have the good chance of become an open society and the second functional democracy in the region ? I thank my hon . friend for draw attention to the people of Syria and to the health worker of all background who do vital work in our NHS . the fall of Assad ' s brutal regime be to be welcome and should be welcome , but we must be cautious about what come next . we have provide £ 50 million of extra support to vulnerable Syrians and I have speak to G7 leader to work towards a syrian Government that respect international law , universal human right and protect all citizen across all sector . before the election , this Prime Minister say he would lower energy bill by £ 300 . since he take office , they have go up by £ 149 . he say he would protect the winter fuel payment , but now he be in power he have strip it off our pensioner . and he line up for many photo with WASPI woman , say he would have their back , and he have just betray they in the most scandalous way possible . this be now the define characteristic of this one - trick phony Prime Minister who say one thing and do another . in Scotland , the SNP be 16 point ahead in the poll . do he understand why the people of these island , especially those of we in Scotland , treat he with such contempt ? Scottish National party member use to ask those question from an area that contain a great many mp not so long ago , but all that change in July . now the hon . Gentleman be carp right up there at the back , and we can hardly hear he . let I first wish you , Mr Speaker , all member on both side of the House and especially the House staff a very merry Christmas . let I also associate myself with those who have thank our emergency service and armed force for their service . Christmas be a time for peace and good will . give that there be more conflict now than at any time since world war two and that all war end with a peace , what be the Prime Minister ' s resolution to work with other for a more peaceful world in 2025 ? I be sure that colleague on both side of the House support the value of the International Association of Parliamentarians for Peace — with which I know my hon . friend be involve — and its work to support human right across the globe . that , I think , be the sentiment that we take into this festive period . it be good to hear that the Prime Minister visit british soldier in Estonia yesterday , before they have to spend Christmas away from their family . we would all like to see a last peace emerge for Ukraine in the new year , but Putin may take any deal broker by Trump as a break in which to re - equip and rearm . what will the Government do to deter Russia from restart its imperial war of aggression follow any peace deal ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his appointment to the Intelligence and Security Committee , and thank he for raise the question of our troop in Estonia , who , as he say , will be there over Christmas without their family . they be right on the frontline , with a very clear sense of purpose , as part of our NATO contingent , and we thank they . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that we must continue to support Ukraine — that be the subject of our discussion in Estonia yesterday — and ensure that it be put in the strong possible position , whether in negotiation or not . we must also make it absolutely clear that this conflict could be end straight away if the aggressor , Russia , back off . I call the Mother of the House . the WASPI woman fight one of the most sustained and passionate campaign for justice that I can remember , year in year out , and we do promise they that we would give they justice . I understand the issue of the cost , but do the Prime Minister really understand how let down they feel today ? I do understand the concern ; of course I do . I have set out the history , but the research finding make it clear that 90 % of those impact do know about the change . in those circumstance the taxpayer simply can not afford the burden of ten of billion of pound of compensation , but , as I have say , I do understand the concern . I know that the Prime Minister be aware of the case of my constituent Sara Sharif , who be brutally torture and appallingly murder by her father and stepmother . I want Sara ' s legacy to be one in which she be the last vulnerable child to be kill by people who should have look after she . will the Prime Minister ensure that an independent inquest and review of Sara ' s death be hold at the start of the new year , so that we can learn why public authority fail and ensure that it never happen again ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise that absolutely harrowing case . it be important that all the lesson be learn . an independent process be take place , but we must be clear about the need to overhaul child ' s social care to keep young people safe , and to look again at the framework for home schooling , among other thing . we do need to learn those lesson , and we be take step . there be a process go on at the moment , and I will update the House in due course . may I thank the Prime Minister for the leadership that he have show in secure the half - a - billion - pound deal to secure the future of the Hitachi rail factory in my constituency — a factory leave in the lurch by the conservative party for year ? do he agree that what we also need be a long - term plan for our proud high - tech rail manufacturing to drag it out of the mire that it be leave in by the Tories ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the Conservatives really should not groan . I go up to the Hitachi factory early this year , before the election . the workforce be extremely anxious about the situation , because they fear that there would be a gap between contract — [ interruption . ] that gap would have mean that people be go to get lay off , and the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) be chuntere from a sit position , unable to understand the impact on work people . the workforce be extremely anxious about the situation when I see they , because they know that if their colleague be lay off , it would be bad for their colleague and their community , and it would mean that they might go and get other job and not be able to come back if there be a new contract . I say then that I would do everything I could to ensure that we fill that gap , and I be very pleased that just the other week we be able to say that we have and that there be a contract . I go back up there to speak to the same workforce , and they be very pleased that they now do not have those anxiety . the Conservatives should be ashamed of their chuntering . as it be Christmas , will the Prime Minister join I in congratulate Chris Middleton , who write a charity song to support Age UK that have already raise £ 10 , 000 ? what be even well be that it be likely to beat the leader of the Lib Dems ' single to no . 1 this year , prove yet again that the Lib Dems can not win — something that I hope we can both agree on . I be not go to adjudicate between the contend single for the top of the chart , but I end this Question Time by wish a happy Christmas and a peaceful new year to everyone across the House . British Indian Ocean Territory : sovereignty ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will provide an update on the negotiation between his Majesty ' s Government and the Government of Mauritius over the future sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory . I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . we welcome yesterday ' s reiteration by Prime Minister Ramgoolam of his willingness to conclude a deal with the UK . we be confident that the agreement be in both side ' share interest , and we will continue work with the new Mauritian Government to finalise the deal . Prime Minister Ramgoolam ' s comment follow his commitment to complete the negotiation , follow his election , in an exchange of letter with the Prime Minister . as part of the usual government - to - Government engagement , the Prime Minister ' s BIOT envoy , Jonathan Powell , meet PM Ramgoolam in late November to start the process , and that be follow last week by a visit to Mauritius by the UK ' s chief negotiator Harriet Mathews and other official for the talk . those talk be productive , and it be completely understandable that the new Mauritian Government will want time to study the detail . it would not be appropriate or usual for I to give a running commentary on what be discuss during routine and private engagement , nor on any potential future engagement . I be confident , however , that we have agree a good and fair deal that be in both side ’ interest . it protect the base at proportionate cost ; it have be support across the national security architecture in the United States and by India for those very reason . as I have say a number of time in this House , the treaty will contain clear commitment on robust security arrangement , include prevent the presence of foreign security force on the outer island and ensure the base can continue to operate securely and effectively . the agreement be subject to finalise a treaty . follow signature , the Government will bring forward a Bill to enable implementation of that treaty . both Houses of Parliament will have the opportunity to scrutinise that treaty before ratification . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . once again minister have be reluctantly drag to the House — in fact , I have just see the Foreign Secretary leg it . in a world of increase danger , change and uncertainty , why be they so keen to surrender this strategic asset ? we have be repeatedly tell by Ministers that this be a good deal and that it have the support of the national security apparatus — we keep hear that , but where be the evidence to justify those hollow claim ? if the deal be so good , why have the Government be so secretive about the detail ? can the Minister explain ? I be sorry that the Foreign Secretary have abandon the House and not even come to this statement , because yet again we be respond to medium report . can the Minister confirm that we will be able to extend the lease on the military base after 99 year , as report ? will we and the US still have full autonomy of operation ? what safeguard will be in place to stop other country , include China , try to establish themselves on the base or near the military base on Diego Garcia ? how much be the british taxpayer go to be liable for each year and in total over 99 year , now that we know we will be pay for the privilege of give away these island ? what exactly be our money go to be pay for ? the Government claim that they can not disclose information about the lease , but surely the Minister can at least say — explain and be honest — where on earth the budget be come from . if it be account for in the Budget forecast present in the autumn — we all hear about those Budget forecast recently — will the Minister tell we what the funding will be for the economic partnership and the trust fund for chagossian people ? can the Minister also tell we what aspect of the deal the new Mauritian Government want reconsider in the response ? what consideration be be give to provide more funding or to weaken any protection that may be in this lease ? importantly , can he explain why the view of the chagossian community have be so ignore ? when the whole world can see that this propose deal be fall apart , the Foreign Secretary and this Government have try to flog it constantly . not only be this a monumental failure of statecraft from this Labour Government , but it be also a significant humiliation for the Foreign Secretary and his credibility and for the Prime Minister . why be labour put our security at risk , ignore Chagossians , and let our standing go into freefall in this world ? I remind member that these contribution should take no long than two minute . we be absolutely not damage our security ; we be protect it through this deal , and that be why this deal have be agree — to protect the operation of that base ; to protect it against the legal uncertainty ; and to ensure it be on a safe footing well into the next century . the right hon . Lady constantly refer to our somehow give up the base on Diego Garcia , but the deal do exactly the opposite — [ interruption . ] it protect the base on Diego Garcia . [ interruption . ] it protect the base to continue operate — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Gemmell , we have enough all the way through Prime Minister ' s question . if I hear any more , you be out . I seriously mean that ; I be not put up with it . the right hon . Lady constantly talk as if somehow we be give up the base on Diego Garcia . that be the exact opposite of what this deal do — unlike the failure to secure the deal under the last Administration , which I might remind the House go through 11 round of negotiation yet fail to secure a deal to protect our base . this deal protect the base . the right hon . Lady ask a series of other question . she ask whether we would be able to extend the lease , and the answer be yes . would we continue to have autonomy for our operation and those of our ally ? absolutely , yes . be there safeguard in place to prevent foreign force or other on the outer island ? absolutely , yes . I have answer the question on cost a number of time in the House . we be very clear that it be not normal practice for the United Kingdom to confirm the value of its payment for military basis anywhere across the globe . we have not do that in the case of any other base , such as the one in Oman , and the United States itself have not confirm the value of its direct payment for basis , include in Djibouti and the Marshall Islands . the right hon . Lady speak about the Chagossians and , have engage with chagossian community over many year , I be confident that this deal have clear benefit for chagossian community and will allow the resettlement of the outer island and the restarting of visit . she also mention the trust fund . the right hon . Lady refer to medium report , and there be a huge amount of speculation . let we get back to the actual fact . the Mauritian Prime Minister himself have confirm to his Assembly that he be willing to conclude this deal with the United Kingdom . those be the fact , and we will protect our national security and our interest . under the mauritian criminal code , anyone who question the integrity of mauritian territory , include the Chagos archipelago , be potentially subject to 10 year ' imprisonment . Most british Chagossians have , at one time or another , effectively give that level of disconsideration to the Mauritian Government . what conversation have the Minister have with the Mauritian Government to ensure that this part of the code be remove so that it be possible for british Chagossians to visit Chagos , in the event that the deal go through ? as I say , we take the interest of chagossian community incredibly seriously . the deal provide for chagossian to return to the outer island and to resettle they if Mauritius decide to pursue a programme of resettlement . most importantly , we will get on with get those visit go so that they can go back and visit the island , include Diego Garcia , with the appropriate protection in place . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Foreign Secretary tell this House on 7 October that his deal be in the UK ' s " security interest " . the chaos we have see since then do nothing to assure our ally or to repel our enemy . in retrospect , do the Minister think it be wise to announce an agreement just week before election in Mauritius and the US ? do he agree it would be wise for any future agreement to come before this House for scrutiny and a vote before signature ? it be important that any agreement comply with the opinion of the International Court of Justice , but self - determination remain an important principle , too . now that negotiation have reopen , can the Minister say how the chagossian people will be represent in those talk ? a court rule this week that Tamil asylum seeker be illegally detain , in terrible condition , on Diego Garcia . will the Minister apologise for their treatment and assure the House that the camp in which they be hold be now close for good ? as I have repeatedly say in this House , the interest of the Chagossians have be absolutely at the heart of this deal , and I be sure they will be confident that there be a number of provision that will satisfy the concern that member be raise in good faith , and that Chagossians have raise with I directly . this be a treaty negotiation between the United Kingdom and Mauritius . the hon . Gentleman be aware of the ICJ judgment , and I will let he read that in his own time . the hon . Gentleman specifically ask about the situation of the migrant , and we recognise and be carefully consider this week ' s judgment , but I make it clear that this Government inherit a deeply troubling situation that remain unresolved under the last Administration , four year after the migrant ' arrival on Diego Garcia . I believe that the shadow Foreign Secretary be Home Secretary when the migrant first arrive , and the situation go unresolved . we be absolutely clear that the situation be unsustainable , and we work at pace to resolve it . we will carefully consider the judgment of that court . those of we who have speak to the american military know the importance of this base . will the Minister confirm that he say that , since the agreement be announce , the american military and security service have raise no concern with this Government ? yes , indeed . as far as I be aware , that be the case . in fact , the opposite be true . there have be a warm welcome for this agreement from across the United States security apparatus because it put this base and our share operation on a secure footing into the future . I remind the House again that that be the very reason why this Government act and , indeed , why the previous Foreign Secretary start the process in the first place , so we be tell . let ' s go over to James Cleverly , then . will the Minister answer this with a simple yes or no ? do the Prime Minister , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , have any conversation with Philippe Sands KC about Diego Garcia without the presence of Foreign Office or other Government civil servant ? yes or no ? I do not have detail of all the Prime Minister ' s meeting . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman can ask the Prime Minister that question himself . for those of we who have serve for the US military , who retain genuine and close link with the US military , and who know that this issue do not bring about the concern that other be try to conflate with it , will the Minister say what his view be on how it be see by our US military friend ? I praise my hon . friend for his service and work . I be very clear : our ally in the United States and , indeed , our other ally who rely on the important guarantee that the base provide be supportive of the deal . it have be support across the security apparatus at every level and that be absolutely crucial . we would not have sign up to a deal if it do not protect our interest and those of our close ally . I call the Father of the House . can the Minister enlighten we as to the attitude on the deal of the incoming Trump Administration ? do he know , or shall I ask the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) ? we very much welcome , as I have say before , the election of President - elect Trump and Vice President - elect Vance . during the transition period , there be restriction on what conversation can go on . as I have say repeatedly in the House , we be confident that when the full detail of the deal be provide by the US national security apparatus , any concern will be allay . I know that the Minister be a strong supporter of the overseas territory , as be the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister . despite this be document already in the House and in Gibraltar , to avoid any doubt or further scaremongering , and for member on the Opposition Benches , will the Minister once again confirm that this Government be completely committed to support the right of self - determination for the people of Gibraltar and the Falklands ? I thank my hon . friend for her important work on Gibraltar , as I thank you for yours , Mr Speaker . I have say this before and I will confirm again that we be absolutely and resolutely commit to the sovereignty and self - determination of Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands . indeed , I enjoy meet our overseas territory family at the Joint Ministerial Council just a few week ago . it be truly baffle that such decent Ministers have allow themselves to be bamboozle by the blob . will the Minister confirm that this be not be rush through in advance of the takeover of the White House by an incoming President in one month ' s time ? if , in one month ' s time , that new President say that this be a terrible deal , will it be too late to change it ? the right hon . Gentleman know that I have immense respect for he and his work in this House . I take issue with his choice of word . we have incredible official in this government who have loyally serve government from party on both side of this House . they work incredibly hard to defend the national security and interest of this country . if anything , this be not rush at all : there be 11 round of negotiation under the Government of the right hon . Gentleman ' s party . we get in and we get a deal do that protect our national security and our interest . what assurance can the Minister provide Parliament about the scrutiny that the agreement , which will be strike in due course , will receive ? as I have say a number of time in the House , the treaty , once sign , will go through the normal procedure in the House . I confirm that in my answer to the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . there will be the opportunity for ample scrutiny by both Houses and legislation will be lay in due course . the Minister get ahead of himself . he say the Government have move at pace to resolve the situation ; the situation be not resolve . he criticise the last government for not secure a deal ; his deal be not secure either . the last time we talk about this , we talk about the President - elect not be keen on the deal and the Chagossians not be properly consult on it . when will he come back to the House on this situation and tell we something positive about this cack - handed deal ? I have repeatedly state a number of positive thing , include the support for Chagossians that will be inherent in the deal . the positive fact be that after 11 round of fail negotiation under the previous Government , we achieve and have do a deal . we be confident that that deal will be support by our partner and we will continue to present detail of it in due course . do the Minister agree that confirm the legal status of the base , which be leave outstanding by the previous Government , will cement our role in the Indo - Pacific and provide an important pillar in our strategy to counter chinese influence in the area ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . despite the attempt to constantly whip up the idea about chinese influence , the deal contain specific precaution to prevent foreign force . I remind the House again that Mauritius be one of the only country that do not join the belt and road initiative . its ally be India , not China . the Government clearly want to dismantle legacy of empire . why , then , do we think it be so important to attach the Chagos island to Mauritius when , in fact , that link be only establish when both territory be acquire by the french empire and later by the british empire ? why do we not listen to the Chagossians , instead of impose the legacy of empire on they ? I have engage with many chagossian group . the hon . Member will know , as I have say multiple time , that there be a range of view across the chagossian community . he be perfectly able to look at the legal judgment himself . the fact be that the Government want to secure the long - term operation of the base , our national security and our interest . we have engage with our partner and secure a deal , which his government fail to do . the current situation be clearly unsustainable . Most of the negotiation take place under the previous Administration . it be now become a political football . have the Minister hear any other serious recommendation for the future of the island ? no , I have not , and I certainly have not hear they from the Opposition Benches . I will repeat the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , which the Minister studiously avoid . clearly , the deal be not ready to be sign , so why be it announce two week before the election ? when we be look to protect the national security of this country , we will operate at the fast and most appropriate pace that we can . this matter have be leave languish under the previous Administration , with the future of the base unsecure . we have secure it . may I wish you a merry Christmas , Mr Speaker ? do the Minister recognise that the issue be be raise by the opposition again and again , despite the cognitive dissonance that it be they who open the negotiation in the first place ? I have to endorse the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) about the scaremongering and the irresponsible way in which the opposition have conduct the debate with regard to other overseas territory and self - determination . order . I be a little bit concerned , as I grant the urgent question . I have take a judgment call ; I hope we be not question that . it be absolutely right that the House scrutinise these matter and it will continue to have the opportunity to do so in a range of forum ; indeed , I will meet parliamentarian later today to discuss they . there appear to be collective amnesia among Conservative Members . I have raise this a number of time . many of they serve as Ministers in the previous Government and they know exactly what the risk be to our national security . I have just return , hotfoot , from a very full Mar - a - Lago . I speak to several member — senior administrator , especially — of the incoming Administration , which will be in the White House in 32 day ' time . let I assure you that there be very deep disquiet among they all as to what this deal may mean for the long - term future of Diego Garcia and whether such a deal will hold , give the precedent of the deal break over Hong Kong . they also can not understand why we would surrender the sovereignty of the island on an advisory judgment from a pretty obscure court . this be about sovereignty , and you keep say yourself that the sovereignty — order . we can not both stand . when you say " you " , you mean I . I have no ownership of this decision . that be fair enough , Mr Speaker . if we respect the sovereignty of Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands , on the basis that it be what the people want , can we have a referendum of all the eligible chagossian and let they decide the future sovereignty of the Chagos island ? that , surely , be the only fair solution . we have be very clear that these negotiation be between the United Kingdom and Mauritius , and I have set out in the past the reason for that . the interest of the Chagossians be absolutely at the heart of this agreement , and as I have say , I have repeatedly engage with they . the hon . Gentleman continue to speculate , but with the great of respect , he do not know the detail of what have be agree . he do not know the detail of what have be share . and he do not know the detail that the national security apparatus of the United States have consider . I be confident that his concern will be allay once he see the detail of this deal . Merry Christmas , Mr Speaker . the Minister say that view across the chagossian community be mixed . in my experience , Mr Speaker , when politician say that , they be simply choose the view that they want to hear . will the Minister take the opportunity that have be give by the incoming Mauritian Government to take a breathing space in which he can consult formally and in a structured way with the Chagossians to find out what they want ? I have engage with the chagossian community twice in recent month , as I have make clear in answer to a number of parliamentary question table by the right hon . Gentleman ' s colleague . the interest of the Chagossians will continue to be at the heart of this agreement , and I take their concern very seriously . I be be quite honest , Mr Speaker , that there be a range of view : some oppose the deal ; and some be in favour of it . that be completely natural in a democratic process . let we go to a long - term campaigner , Jeremy Corbyn . thank you , Mr Speaker . have be a member of the Chagos Islands ( British Indian Ocean Territory ) all - party parliamentary group ever since it be found and have a lot of interaction with Chagossians over the past 25 year , I can assure the Minister that I have meet many chagossian in this country and in Mauritius . they be abominably treat and short - change by the deal of 1968 and then later remove from the island . their one unifying cause be the right of return and settlement , and I hope the Minister will confirm that that right will be uphold . I understand all the negotiation surround the base , but there be no reason why they should not include the right of at least visit , if not reside on , Diego Garcia itself . the International Court of Justice be very clear that the decolonisation process be not properly carry out by Britain in the 1960 , when Mauritius achieve its independence , and that have to be make right . that have be vote on by the ICJ , vote on by the UN General Assembly , and endorse by the Security Council . be any more evidence necessary to indicate that it be clearly part of Mauritius , and that Chagossians have right within Mauritius as well as on the Chagos Islands , where hopefully they will be able to return ? I agree with the right hon . member ' s characterisation of what happen to the Chagossians in the past . it be a matter of deep regret for this Government , and , indeed , I think that regret be share across the House . as I have say , we will have the interest of the Chagossians at the heart of this agreement . he be right to characterise the range of view across the chagossian community in response to the question that have just be put to I . I can confirm that the programme of visit will include the ability to visit all the island , include Diego Garcia , with the appropriate safeguard in place . I hope , too , for a resettlement of the outer island . a provision certainly exist for that to happen , and I think that that be one of the most likely scenario in which Chagossians can finally return to those outer island . the Minister be try to say that nothing have change on this deal , yet medium report suggest that the new Prime Minister of Mauritius believe that the deal be not good enough , and the Minister be now say that it be the same deal . clearly , there be something that we be not be tell in this House . either the amount of money that we be pay for the rental of the space will have to increase , or some term and condition have change . thank you , Mr Speaker , for ensure that this House can scrutinise the position . the Minister should have give a statement to that effect , rather than have to have an urgent question . can we therefore pause this process to allow the Chagossians to have their say and to look at what the incoming American Government have to say , and then , before we proceed with this giveaway , make sure that everyone be in agreement ? the Prime Minister of Mauritius have make it very clear in his exchange of letter with the Prime Minister of this country and also in his statement yesterday that they be willing to conclude an agreement with we . that be very clear . therefore , on the fundamental , nothing have change . we be engage in conversation . it be only natural that , after an election , they would want to do that and to be able to scrutinise the agreement . that be entirely proper . that be why official have be have these conversation , but I will not give a running commentary on private discussion . I know the Minister will want to give the House the great possible clarity on what have bring we to this point . the Foreign Secretary have be clear that one of the central consideration for the Government be the likelihood , if not the inevitability , of a bind legal judgment against the UK in this matter . the Minister will know that the judgment of the International Court of Justice be not bind on the United Kingdom when dispute be between the UK and another state which be or be a member of the Commonwealth . that would include Mauritius . I do not expect the Minister to disclose the legal advice that the Government have receive , but will he please give the House some more clarity about the nature of the legal jeopardy that the Government perceive here ? I will not , for that very reason , go into that type of advice . the right hon . and learn Member know that from his extensive and distinguished experience on these matter . I have to ask this fundamental question : if there be not a problem , why do his government start negotiation on this ? I think we can forgive our overseas territory for be a little concerned about this Government ' s commitment to their right to self - determination . those of we who , like I , be a bit old and have long memory will remember when the previous Labour Government open negotiation with the Spanish Government over the future of Gibraltar . but what I be more interested in today be have reassurance from the Minister that any decision will be well inform , so can he say which of his Ministers have visit the British Indian Ocean Territory ? I like the right hon . Lady , but I have to say that I find it extremely unhelpful the way that the Falklands , Gibraltar and other overseas territory , which be not comparable with this situation , be constantly bring up . I have just be with the leader at the Joint Ministerial Council — Mr Speaker , you graciously host a reception as well — and we be absolutely resolute in our commitment to the Falklands and Gibraltar . I have be there and say it myself directly on the Rock . the Minister of State for the Armed Forces have just be in the Falklands say exactly the same thing to the Falkland Islanders . I can tell you , Mr Speaker , they be get feed up with the nonsense that we be hear about this . it be hugely problematic for their interest go forward . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . surely the Minister must accept , though , that the timing of this announcement be one of the big diplomatic gaffe of modern time . it come literally hour before a general election be call . there be a widespread perception in Mauritius that this Government be try to give a leg up to a very unpopular sit Government who subsequently score zero out of 60 directly elect seat in the Mauritian Parliament . do he not agree that it be wholly appropriate that the new Labour Mauritian Government would be wary of the intention of his government ? I simply do not recognise the right hon . member ' s characterisation . can the Minister update the House on the measure be take to safeguard against the emergence of chinese military and surveillance capability in the British Indian Ocean Territory ? I have be very clear that , within the agreement , there be provision to ensure the security of the outer island . this deal would not have be agree by the United States security apparatus or , indeed , by we be it to give that kind of benefit to another country . I have be very clear about the position of Mauritius in relation to China , and there be provision and safeguard in place that should allay any fear on that matter . the Minister do not seem to answer the question raise by the shadow Foreign Secretary , so may I ask this just one more time : from which budget do the Government plan to make the annual payment that he be propose to the Mauritian Government ? I have be very , very clear — [ Laughter ] . conservative Members can guffaw all they like , but I will give the answer that relate to the fact here and that relate to the national security interest of this country . the previous Government be involve in 11 round of negotiation and they fail to achieve a deal . we achieve that deal . we will provide further detail in due course . yet again , this new Labour Government rush into an ill - judge and regrettable policy decision : to cede the British Indian Ocean Territory to Mauritius , against expert advice and with no regard to the wish of Chagossians in this country and elsewhere . it be like the Government ' s awful policy on scrap the winter fuel payment for pensioner , the heartless family farm tax , and their job tax . will the Government show some leadership , admit that they have get this wrong , scrap the deal and keep this vital territory under british control , to protect UK interest , the marine environment and ultimately global security in an increasingly unstable and dangerous world ? I gently suggest that the hon . Gentleman spend a bit more time reflect on the failure of his Administration on this and a series of other issue , from the public finance to our national security . this Government be clear up the mess that his party leave behind on not only this issue but so many other . I thank the Minister for his answer ; however , I be a sponsor of the British Indian Ocean Territory ( Citizenship ) Bill , which call for descendant bear to individual within the British Indian Ocean Territory to be able to register as BIOT . there be now an even great imperative because of the Chagos decision , which be make with no input from local people . what discussion will take place with those who consider themselves british ? the Chagossians seem not to be assure , so what will be do to ensure that they receive all the necessary information in a timely manner , and will not get answer to their question through news medium outlet ? I have a deep respect for the hon . Gentleman . as I have say a number of time , the Government deeply regret the way that Chagossians be remove from the island and treat thereafter . we have always be clear on respect the interest of chagossian community . I have engage , and will continue to engage , with chagossian community . their interest be at the heart of the deal , from the trust fund to the ability to resettle on and visit the island , and a series of other measure that we have take here in the United Kingdom . I be confident that their interest be be respect . Provisional Local Government Finance Settlement the Government be elect on a mandate of change , to deliver a new era of economic growth and national renewal , and reverse the year of failure and decline that we inherit . through the tough decision that we take in the Budget , we prevent a return to austerity while protect work people ' s payslip . the plan for change that the Prime Minister unveil early this month be the next stage on the journey of reform — a plan to kick - start growth and get Britain build again , put more money in people ' s pocket and deliver 1 . 5 million new home , good job and opportunity for all . just this week , we announce our plan to rebuild and reform local government , and to empower local leader to deliver that change so that the benefit be feel in every community . we can not do this alone . we need strong , empower local government to work with we , as equal partner in a new relationship . public service be our collective duty , but after a decade of cut , fiscal mismanagement and the failure of the previous Government to fix the foundation , it be a fact that council of all political stripe be in crisis . the broken local audit system in England and the scandal of the unacceptable backlog that lead to the recent whole of Government account disclaimer far illustrate the dire strait of the system and the legacy that we must reconcile . the Prime Minister get this . as a former director of a critical public service , he know that reform be vital , and so do the Deputy Prime Minister , have work on the frontline as a home care worker , see the human impact every single day . I be proud to have public service and local government in my blood too . that be why I take the responsibility to lead the Government ' s work to rebuild the sector with the seriousness that be due and the urgency that be require . the work have already begin , and today mark a major milestone in our mission to rebuild local government and put council on a firm financial footing , as we publish the provisional local government finance settlement for ' 25 - 26 and launch our consultation on these proposal , alongside our consultation on wide funding reform . in the autumn Budget , the Government announce £ 4 billion of additional funding for local government service , of which £ 1 . 3 billion would come in the settlement present today , but we know that we need to rally . that be why I be announce over £ 700 million of additional grant . that include over £ 200 million of extra funding for social care since the policy statement . I also confirm that the new funding include £ 515 million that will be make available in the final settlement to support council with the increase in employer national insurance contribution . the package in the provisional settlement will enable local government to invest in the vital service that people rely on , make £ 69 billion available — equivalent to a 3 . 5 % real - term increase in council ' core spending power when compare with ' 24 - 25 . I confirm that this will increase even far in the final settlement . today be the start , not the end . take together , the additional funding make available in this settlement and the Budget will deliver over £ 5 billion of new funding for local service over and above local council tax . alongside that , every authority in England will receive a one - off share of £ 100 million currently hold in the business rate levy account . together , we must ensure that public investment be use for long - term prevention and reform of local public service , rather than expensive short - term crisis response , which often have much bad outcome . we be determined to end the cycle of failure that we have see for too long , and we will provide certainty by ensure that no authority will see a reduction in its core spending power after account for council tax flexibility next year . we be also ensure that taxpayer ' money go to where it be need the most . that include an immediate down payment : a highly target £ 600 million recovery grant , fund through repurpose the rural service delivery grant and the service grant , ahead of broad reform to a fairer funding system later . today , we be launch a consultation on local authority funding reform start in ' 26 - 27 . there will always be tough decision to make , but we be determined to ensure that we fairly reflect the real driver of cost , include demand , the need for public service , and importantly , the ability of council to raise revenue locally . that be why we be make up to £ 3 . 7 billion of extra funding available through this settlement to help local authority to meet the spiral cost of social care . that include an additional £ 200 million uplift to the social care grant , which I confirm today , take the total increase to the grant for ' 25 - 26 to £ 880 million . that include the new child ' s social care prevention grant , first announce in the policy statement , which I today confirm will be uplifted in a further final settlement by £ 13 million , take the total to £ 263 million . that be the first step in our national roll - out of transform family health service , as we double settlement investment in preventive child ' s social care service to over £ 500 million next year . I place on record my appreciation , and that of the Deputy Prime Minister , for the partnership and determination show by the Treasury , the Education and Health Secretaries , and their Ministers and official . we will not do as the previous Government do and impoverish council , and those who need support the most , then parade they around for public shaming . that help no one . we must work together to get council back on their foot financially . the principle stand that it be for local authority to decide at what level they set their council tax , and they be accountable to local taxpayer ; however , we be commit to keep taxis on work people as low as possible , and we have to strike a balance , so we will maintain the previous Government ' s policy , as set out in the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast , of set a 5 % council tax referendum principle , make up of a 3 % core principle and a 2 % principle for the adult social care precept . that mean that resident will have the final say over increase that go beyond that . we have put in place a framework for 2025 - 26 to support those council in the most financial difficulty . similar to the approach take by the previous Government , we will consider request for bespoke referendum principle on a case - by - case basis . we expect the change outline today will give the respite need and clarity on the direction of travel , but we also know that 14 year have hit hard and , for some , the recovery grant and the other measure will still mean that additional support be require . we will put taxpayer and the impact on work people at the forefront of our decision , and we will look carefully at council ' individual circumstance — for instance , how much they charge in council tax and the strength of their plan to protect vulnerable people on low income . to recognise the impact of council tax on household across all council , we be consult with the sector on change to payment instalment , which will allow annual council tax bill that be spread over 10 month to move to a 12 - month schedule by right , help household budgeting , spread the cost for work people and mirror how most household bill be pay . ensure local government can deliver for work people in the long term require a root - and - branch reform of the way that council be fund . that be why through the 2026 - 27 settlement — the first multiyear settlement in 10 year — we will introduce an up - to - date assessment of council ' need and resource . today we be launch a consultation on the objective and principle of those change . we will consider representation from all corner of the sector to develop our understanding of the driver of need , include deprivation , and of the impact in rural area on service delivery — fairness for all deliver once and for all . we will redouble our work to shift power away from Westminster into the hand of those community who know their area well . we will reduce the myriad of fund pot that council have to contend with , give they the flexibility they need to deliver local and national priority . that effort be underpin by our strategy to streamline and simplify the local audit system in England . local community deserve transparency , accountability and the effective early warning system that local audits provide . we be take immediate action by replace the broken and dispersed system with a focused , proportionate and value - for - money local audit office , ensure that the system be fit for purpose . this be a long - term challenge , and it will take hard work and dedication to achieve , which be why we be waste no time in fix the foundation , get the audit backlog under control , overhaul the system for the long term , return to secure multiyear settlement , and bring forward ambitious plan for devolution , growth and reform of public service , while improve standard , accountability and efficiency . we be build for the long term to get local government fighting fit , legal and decent , and as equal partner to rebuild our country from the ground up , and ready to play its part in deliver the Government ' s mission through our plan for change . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . it be Christmas . the two wise man and the wise woman on the Government Front Bench have arrive bear their gift for local council , but on close inspection , while the goal be beautifully package , the box be somewhat empty than people have be expect . it have be a challenging few week for local government . we have hear the Government ' s plan to take as much of the local as they can out of local government , and it be clear that this statement will leave our local authority face further challenge in do their day job and significant uncertainty as we go into the new year . all that come from a Government who promise just a short time ago that they would end the bidding war , as they call it , among council . they then promptly start a new bidding war for homelessness funding , rather than address it through the settlement give that it be a core statutory duty of local authority . the consequence of the Government ' s approach be that localism , on central Government term only , represent just in London a £ 700 million net cut in the funding that council will have available to deal with homelessness at a time when rough sleeping be at 27 % . council face uncertainty about the cost of funding election . the Minister tell we just a few day ago that he would be consider whether to cancel local election in place face local government reorganisation . up and down the country in all those local authority , our return officer be book and pay for the polling station , hire the staff and carry out the canvassing . they need certainty as we go into the new year . of course , our council face additional and uncertain challenge that be announce in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , as well as from various statement make by other Ministers , that clearly imply a significant increase in the cost of new statutory duty come the way of our local authority , with no clarity about how those may be fund . all of that be on top of bring forward local government reorganisation proposal to a deadline early in the new year . it be not clear whose interest that serve , but for all those local authority that may be consider that , it represent a significant additional cost pressure . as many of our councillor go away for their Christmas break and try to digest the detail of the settlement over their Christmas lunch , they will face rumble indigestion as they realise that their budget pressure will grow significantly , especially in rural local authority , which face huge loss from the cancellation of funding that support the additional and quantified cost of local government service in a rural environment . I will be fair to the Minister : the £ 2 . 7 billion black hole that we spot at the time of the Budget announcement have shrink by around £ 700 million , but when it come to council tax increase that will be announce by our local authority in February , how much will they have to put up council tax to meet the shortfall ? how much will they have to put up council tax to cover the Government ' s new approach to asylum , which be drive up the cost of temporary accommodation ? when will the Government provide clarity on the dedicated school grant override , give the impact it have on our local authority budget ? when will they provide clarity on the election preparation cost ? give that the Local Government Association have identify a £ 1 . 766 billion shortfall just from the Government ' s national insurance contribution measure , when will they announce further funding to cover those cost ? let we consider this : the cancellation of the new home bonus mean £ 3 million lose by Birmingham , £ 3 . 7 million lose by Buckinghamshire , £ 4 million from Central Bedfordshire , £ 5 . 3 million each from Ealing and Milton Keynes , £ 3 . 7 million from North Yorkshire alone , £ 9 . 5 million from Lincolnshire , £ 14 . 3 million from the rural service grant and an £ 18 million cut for a rural local authority in this Budget . it be clear there be tough time ahead for local authority as they begin to look at the detail . the new home bonus , in particular , mean the place that have build the most home be the one that lose the benefit . if this be fix the foundation , I would not want to stay in the tent which be the only thing they would hold up in our local authority . here we go again . I would think that after 14 year of council be on year - to - year watch to find out what position they would be in , the Conservatives would at least welcome the preparation now for multiyear settlement . they have 14 year to get their house in order , and they could not even line up to give council more than 12 month ' certainty about what be come . the one thing council be absolutely certain about be that it be only go to be bad news after bad news . when there be crisis in adult social care and child ' s service and when homelessness be rise at a rate of knot , the last Government be completely miss in action — that be what council be face . how many council go bust on their watch ? council be line up say to the Government that they could not afford — Birmingham . let we talk about Birmingham , because the opposition reference the £ 3 million new home bonus . the new recovery grant — £ 600 million of brand new money target at those council with high deprivation and low tax basis — just for Birmingham be £ 39 million . that will start the repair work of rebuild the foundation . when we talk about fair funding and why it be need , we will not do what the previous Government do , where they put party politic ahead of the national interest . let I remind the Conservatives of what the previous Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , say in Tunbridge Wells in 2022 : " we inherit a bunch of formula from Labour that shove all the funding into deprived urban area and that need to be undo . I start the work of undo that . " that be a record of shame . it be nothing to preach about . to right the wrong of the past 14 year and finally get money where it be need , this Government will work for public service , not party interest . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I thank the Minister for outline this much - need funding uplift . I agree with he that council up and down the country , regardless of their political persuasion , need the Government to support they , not to criticise and denigrate they , which be sadly what we have have in some case over the past 14 year . he mention some of the authority that still face those pressure , include Birmingham , Nottingham and Woking , which have already effectively face bankruptcy . the Local Government Association have outline that up to one in four council be likely to require additional emergency support . a Sky report have today outline that family be stick in temporary accommodation for an average of five and a half year . we should not be call that " temporary accommodation . " imagine spend the entirety of your school life in temporary accommodation because you do not have your own home . the funding that the Minister have announce for tackle homelessness be welcome , but it be a stick plaster , if we be honest , because it do not give council the tool to build social housing . Homelessness will end only if we build new home , so what step be the Minister take to ensure that council have those power ? in the short term , the £ 18 billion boost to the homelessness prevention grant be a step in the right direction , but the Government must consider the unintended consequence . local authority be already reliant on that funding to plug gap in temporary accommodation — many use up to 75 % of it for that purpose — but the new rule mean that only 49 % of the grant may be use in that way . how will that change not lead to a further reduction in funding for temporary accommodation , at a time when , as we all know , the system be break ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her question . we be all get ready for Christmas and look forward to time with our family and our own respite , but in the end it be hard to enjoy that moment give the prospect of just how many child in this country be in temporary accommodation . some 159 , 000 child do not have a secure , affordable place to live and so be in temporary accommodation . in my own town , there be 500 such child . we do our good — we martial for the Christmas party that charity put on — but it be no replacement for a secure family home . there will be lot of difference in the exchange that take place here , but we need to focus on why we be do what we be do . the reason we be build 1 . 5 million new home be of course economic , and about decent , well - pay , working - class job — we talk a lot about that — but in the end it be about sort out the housing crisis . if we sort out that crisis , we sort out the temporary accommodation crisis and the financial crisis in local government . if we sort out the crisis in adult social care , of course we sort out the financial crisis , but we will finally deliver on the promise of the state look after the generation who give so much . if we sort out the crisis in child ' s social care , we finally deliver on the state promise to invest in the next generation . repair the foundation be , of course , about financial foundation — that be important — but it be also about people and community , and in the end that be what we be all here for . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be a Member of Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council . local government be bring to its knee under the last Conservative Government , with fund slash and responsibility pile on its deplete and exhausted workforce . I thank the local government workforce and wish they a happy Christmas . I and my local Liberal Democrat colleague welcome the move to multi - year settlement — something we have long call for — and the funding announce today for homelessness prevention . I agree with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister that we must eliminate the use of b & Bs , especially for family at Christmas . I also welcome the announce consultation on change the funding formula , as listen to our local leader be absolutely crucial . however , we remain really concerned about the removal of the rural service grant , which suggest that the Government do not understand the nature of rural community , include the difficulty of provide service over sometimes vast area , subsidise public transport , and identify hidden poverty , often among old population — that cost an awful lot . on special educational need , it be deeply worry that council — particularly those that may literally run out of money , such as Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council — still have no idea about what will happen to the statutory override . how be they suppose to set their budget in February without that certainty ? can the Minister confirm that no council will be force to join the Safety Valve scheme , for example , which would put at risk the support provide to some of the most vulnerable child ? as we go into winter , the impact on social care be of the great concern . Dorset council share with I a letter send to the Dorset Care Association in which the director of adult social care state : " we simply will not have the resource to meet the national insurance contribution for provider . " indeed , the Minister tell I , in response to a write question , that only direct national insurance cost would be cover . what do he say to provider and to staff in charity such as Diversability , who fear for their job this Christmas ? it be important that we have a debate on local government finance base on the number . I have say already that , when take into account council tax , no council will see a reduction in its core spending power . that mean that before the final settlement , and not include extended producer responsibility and live part of the grant , the hon . Lady ' s own council will see an increase of at least 5 . 8 % . we be cover the national insurance contribution make there , and in addition we be fund an extra £ 880 million through the social care grant . we have hear representation through the sector . we be not say that all this will fix everything today — it can not . we be less than six month into the new Government and we have 14 year to reconcile . I hope the hon . Lady do not mind , but I remind she that a number of those 14 year be under the coalition Government . what we miss then and be try to make up for now be that if we take away community and preventative service , which we all know make a big difference — not just in cost but in outcome — we end up pay more and more at the back end , but for bad outcome . the cruelty be that the Liberal Democrats ' moment in government , which I accept be short , be the time to invest in reform and prevention . that time be not take and that opportunity be miss , and 14 year later we be reconcile that and fix the system from the ground up . we will do that . I welcome this commitment to local government and recognise that the Minister have a big job to do in address the challenge that have arise because of the last 14 year — not least in local government audit . I welcome what seem to be a commitment to embrace the Redmond review . will he give more detail about what will replace the Office for Local Government ? Most in the sector would agree that Oflog — the Office for Local Government — have a vague remit that be an expensive way of gather datum . in the end , if it be to be develop , we could risk mission creep whereby its remit would verge into the area that local authority so dislike about the former Audit Commission . we be try to get the right balance between the early warning system that enable we to see which individual council be under stress , and , importantly , note any develop systemic threat or theme for which central Government might have to take much early action . we want to rebuild that early warning system . however , we be absolutely clear that we be not replace the Audit Commission . for one , it be hugely expensive , and we need to ensure that any money go to the frontline of local public service . honestly , council do not need inspector go in to mark their homework when they should be trust to get on and do the job well . People understand what the National Audit Office be , so we hope that they will understand and see the benefit of a local audit office , and that it will be embrace by the sector . will the Minister set out how he expect local authority such as mine in Buckinghamshire to absorb with such little notice multi - million pound impact from significant change to the social care funding formula , and the effect of the NICs rise on commission service and supplier , particularly charity such as Mind , which will be greatly affect by the change ? again , the hon . Lady ' s council will see a core spending power increase of 5 % , and that be only this part of the settlement — it do not include extend producer responsibility or billion of pound in other grant that will come . this be a genuine attempt to make sure we give council the funding that be need , and I think we have succeed in a very difficult context , but it be a matter of fact that some council ' local tax basis be strong , for reason that go back many year and , in some case , many century . that be not because of the effort of the local council — it be what it be — and for too long , council in deprive community with low tax basis have do everything that have be ask of they . they have raise council tax to the maximum , so local community be pay more and more , but increasingly they be get less and less . they be see their neighbourhood service diminish . there be tough choice , and we do not shy away from that . we have be very honest in the oral statement about the trade - off that have have to be make , but the increase of 5 % in the core spending power of the hon . Lady ' s council will help deal with the issue she have raise . I would prefer to see the wise man and woman on Labour ' s Front Bench than Ebenezer Scrooge and Jacob Marley on the Conservative Front Bench . do the Minister agree that the statement he have make today be in stark contrast to the legacy leave by the Conservative party , which leave local government in dire strait ? that be the point : the previous Government know just how bad the situation be , but they put off the tough decision . for example , how many time in 14 year do the previous Government promise that they would go back to multi - year settlement so that council know where they be , but fail to do so ? how many time do the previous Government say that they would bring in a fair funding review , but fail to do so ? how many time do the previous Government say that they would deal with the audit backlog ? they do not just fail to do that ; the backlog get bad . if we have not take action , it would have be 1 , 000 set of audit account , and that be not due to covid , because those account go back to 2015 . that failure be systemic , and it be all on the watch on the previous Government . what that mean in practice be £ 100 billion of public money that they could not account for , so they do not really know the state of the sector , because they completely give up on monitor it . follow on from the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) and the Minister ' s answer , can I assure he that there be area of deprivation in rural community such as Buckinghamshire ? far to the point make by the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , while the devil be in the detail , it already look from the figure like Buckinghamshire will take a multimillion - pound hit from the loss of various grant . can the Minister give an assurance that rural community will be treat equally to urban one , and will not be leave behind ? either the hon . Gentleman do not know the status of the rural service delivery grant , or he be try to mislead the House . a large share of large rural authority should have get the rural service delivery grant but do not , because that grant be not about rural service . when the previous Prime Minister stand up in Tunbridge Wells and say that the Government have take money from deprive community and move it across , he do not mean that it be for all community ; it be for party politic . so where be Conservative Members then when it come to those rural community that do not get the grant ? I do not hear anybody stand up and ask for their rural community to get the money for those service that Conservative Members be now try to champion . we will absolutely make sure that deprivation and need be part of the funding reform that be come , but we will also make sure that we genuinely take into account the cost of deliver service in rural area . the sector need a fair funding review , and we be determined to deliver one . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , particularly the additional funding to tackle homelessness and provide early help and support for family . I also welcome the principle that resource should be direct accord to need . however , as the Minister know , the elephant in the room of local government finance be that the statutory override for deficit relate to special educational need and disability be due to come to an end in March 2026 . council will be set their budget in the new year through to the end of March 2026 , and if there be no plan to address the SEND deficit , many council will be issue section 114 notice . council urgently need certainty at this point , so what discussion be take place with local authority about the statutory override , and when will they have the certainty they need ? I agree about the importance and significance of the statutory override — that be feel very acutely in the Department and in the sector . we be consult now on a number of matter , include the statutory override , and we be in constant dialogue with the Treasury about how we deal with that in the long term . in the end , this be another example of the legacy we have inherit . we be take very difficult decision to reconcile , reform and repair the system — decision that should have be take early but be not . that issue be very much on our agenda . I call Lee Dillon , a member of the Select Committee . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a member of West Berkshire council . last Christmas , I be the leader of that council , and I can honestly say to the Minister that I would much rather receive in my inbox the settlement propose by the Government than what I receive from the Conservative Government . in his statement , the Minister talk about fix the foundation . I welcome the £ 3 . 7 billion for social care , but do he agree that , with council spend up to two third on their budget on adult and child ' s social care , social care need full - scale reform if we be to fix the foundation ? will he support the Liberal Democrats ’ call for a commission to undertake that piece of work ? to be honest , although I absolutely agree that we need reform , I believe the urgency be today . think about the number of old people who would have be entitle to adult social care in 2010 who now do not even get support from the local authority , because eligibility have change in so many area . there be a crisis , and that crisis be not just be feel in the home of all the people who have give to this country and deserve well ; it be be feel in the acute sector and in the health service , where we be pay far more at the back end because community preventative service be not in place . we be work with the Cabinet Office and the Treasury to say , " let ' s learn as we go " on some of this , in term of innovation and pilot where we can invest to save — invest in those community preventative service up front , to try to well reduce demand . of course , it be about money , but in the end it be about the service we provide . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s comment about the settlement in the round . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a councillor in Telford and Wrekin , as well as an honorary vice - president of the Local Government Association . the Government ' s first step to restore funding for local government after a very difficult 14 year be welcome , but council area such as mine have fast - grow population , provide outstanding service and provide leadership to the sector . on all three of those count , until this point , that have not be reflect in the settlement that Telford and Wrekin council have receive . will this Government change that ? I also gently remind the House that when I be chair of the Local Government Association over the past couple of year , there be not a single conservative councillor who think the settlement or the last Government ' s approach to it be fair or proportionate . I be pleased to say that this year , core spending power in my hon . friend ' s area will increase by 8 . 1 % , and again , that do not take into account the billion of pound that will follow . that reflect the service demand pressure , but also the reality of the local tax basis in that area . Telford , like many area , do a very good job of provide local public service , but the council itself recognise that the neighbourhood service that most people see and feel — those that make a difference to quality of life — have be retreat on because of the need to fund targeted service , and social care in particular . we be absolutely determined to rebuild adult and child ' s social care and sort out the housing crisis , but we also want people to live in good place that people be proud of , which require those neighbourhood service to be rebuild . it will take time to do that , but our commitment to Telford and the rest of the country be that we be absolutely determined to do so . the core spending power table that the Government have publish today show that total Government funding for South Staffordshire be down by 7 . 5 % . just what do the Government have against council tax payer in South Staffordshire ? give the hon . Gentleman ' s background , I be surprised that he be display such ignorance of council finance . the Government ' s role in local government finance be to be an equaliser . as he know , everywhere have the ability to raise tax locally through council tax and business rate , but he also know that some area have the ability to raise far more than other because of their tax base . it be the job of the Government to equalise — to make sure that when it come to demand for service , everywhere get the service provision it need . that require the Government to provide more funding in some place to reconcile that low tax base , so that everyone get the service they be entitle to . the presentation that the hon . Gentleman have offer show either ignorance or politic , but I think the country deserve well . I very much welcome today ' s statement and the extra funding that have be announce . I commend the Minister for repeatedly remind the conservative party of 14 year of austerity , during which local government see big cut to its budget than any other part of the public sector . of course , the Lib Dems be a party to the coalition Government when the bad of those cut be make . may I ask my hon . friend two question ? first , when he come to consider more fundamental reform — which we accept will not be in place for another year — will he look at the council tax system as a whole ? it be an unfair and regressive system that take a disproportionate amount of money from the poor people in the poor house . secondly , can he confirm that the local audit office will be a stand - alone body that look at public sector audit , not an add - on to the audit , reporting and governance authority — a previous proposal — which be basically to be a private sector body that look at local government as an afterthought ? I thank the former Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee for that question . I can confirm that the core spending power of that element in this settlement for Sheffield will be 8 . 5 % , which be before the additional fund that will follow . Sheffield get a good settlement from this , but we recognise that it be in a context of grow demand , so we hope council see that we be meet they on the challenge they face . on whether we will review council tax , I think every Government recognise that there be huge limitation with council tax , and also huge geographical variation . it be regressive , which be the nature of a tax base on property value rather than the income of the people in they . however , council tax be understand , its collection rate be high and it be really the foundation — although not the total , as my hon . friend know — of the funding of council service . the urgent issue we need to face be that previous government move away from their role as the equaliser in the system . whereas the revenue support grant use to be in place to support council by reconcile low tax basis , recent government have be miss in action . we be say to council of all political stripe , across every type of authority and every part of the country , that we will reconcile that and work with they to equalise the situation . on the local audit office , we be absolutely determined that this will not be a return to the Audit Commission . we be try to do a number of thing . first , we want to rebuild the early warning system to make sure that we see any systemic problem develop in the system . however , we also recognise that the cost of audit have increase by 150 % , which be a direct cost to taxpayer , and that there be fragmentation in the market , and we need to look at the fall - back position as oppose to auditor supply . there be quite a lot that we need to deal with , but this be very much about the provision of audit and make sure the early warning system be rebuild ; it be certainly not a blow to the inspection regime . I know the Minister want to give thorough response , but I have absolute confidence that he can do that with few word . I welcome the Government ' s statement and their attention to local government finance . deliver service in large , dispersed rural area such as mine in South Devon be challenging and costly . what plan do the Minister have to ensure that rural local authority will be allocate additional funding to manage the extra cost of deliver service across area such as mine ? that be exactly the point of move to a fair funding formula — and we will of course consult on the component part make that up . we have to take this in the round — I genuinely want any part of the country and any type of local authority to be able to interrogate the system , and even if they disagree with the quantum — there will always be argument that — to be able to say that the rationale and the evidence base hold . it be a matter of accept fact that there be a premium on the cost of rural service delivery , just because of the travelling involve . for example , for a home care worker , there be the travel time between appointment and all the rest of it . however , it be probably also accept that the evidence base be not as robust and strong as it need to be , so we want to make sure through this process that we take into account the need for that strong and robust evidence base . fourteen year of Tory austerity and fiscal mismanagement have halve the central Government funding for Newcastle city council , suck the blood vampire - like from our local economy , and leave local business and family drown in uncertainty , so I welcome this increase funding and the specific commitment on housing and social care . however , can the Minister reassure I that there be further light at the end of the tunnel , because this Government ' s work on reform public service , local funding , business rate and innovation investment will mean that the people of Newcastle and the north - east will have the power and the resource to build the public service and the economy that we choose ? that be completely right . by the way , I give credit to council official , frontline worker and councillor , because it be local government that have lead on innovation and reform and that have bind together local community in very difficult time — and , I would say , with other part of the system too often work against the local interest , not with it . we need to find a way of send that message not to local government , because I think it be understand there , but to the wide system . we need to say that when we make such public sector investment in Newcastle and other place , we expect the whole system to rally around a single plan for the place and its people . we expect local government to be respect as the local leader — the convenor of place — that can hold the ring to make sure there be not duplication or contradiction and that the money deliver the right outcome for local people . we be absolutely committed to that . large rural county such as Norfolk face high cost in deliver their service , and the Government ' s job tax add £ 14 million to the pressure that Norfolk county council be face . can the Minister clarify whether the NICs funding he refer to in his statement , which will go to Norfolk county council and other council , will cover the cost of social care commission service ? first , I pay tribute to the leader in both Norfolk and Suffolk for the conversation we be have , particularly on devolution . we look forward to , I hope , make progress on that in the near future , because that be where the real prize be . we can sort out the foundation of council funding and reorganise public service to get efficiency , but in the end we need to see devolution . we need to see power come out of this place and be give to local community . the good way to achieve that be through a mayoral strategic authority work hand in glove with local authority . on the question about nic , we have provide over £ 500 million for the cost of employer ' national insurance contribution and we be provide additional money through the social care grant , and it be for council to decide how good to spend that money . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and the fact that this Government be start to fix the damage do by more than a decade of disastrous settlement for local government . in my constituency , that mean increase of more than 5 % for each local authority in core spending power , but do the Minister agree that as important , if not more important , be the consultation on long - term proposal to fundamentally improve the way that local government be fund through a fair system ? that be exactly right . we have approach this year as very much a recovery operation . we could see that council be in the ditch and need to be pull out and take home , and that be exactly what this one - year settlement will do . however , what they need and deserve be a multi - year settlement that give long - term security and stability , and for that long - term settlement not to be the continuation of a broken system , but a system that have be rewire and put right . with the fair funding review , the multi - year settlement and the reform agenda , put prevention at the heart of public service , we will begin to achieve the end to which my hon . friend rightly point . we have hear a lot from colleague about the delivery of rural service . Harrogate and Knaresborough be one of the area that see local government reorganisation , and we be now geographically the large council in England . so what reassurance will there be on make sure that rural service can be provide ? one of the big barrier the council face be be able to deliver home to school transport , the cost of which have go from £ 5 million just a few year ago to what be expect to be over £ 25 million this year . I have cover the rural service element before , so I will home in on the home to school transport issue , which I know be a huge issue in many county council area , where child be carry far away to get to school . I will be honest and say that some of that be absolutely require , and have always be require , but quite a lot of it be the result of a broken system in which education be not be provide in local community and parent have be force to move far out . the plan we have to rebuild education and to invest in school , some of it fund through imposition on private school to get that money into the state sector , be about rebuild local education provision so that parent have the choice and the confidence to go to the state school near to their home . that will have an impact on council budget for home to school transport . after eight year of conservative rule in Stoke - on - Trent , the council be take to the brink of bankruptcy , and the Minister will be well aware of the extraordinary financial support that we have receive and about which we be have additional conversation . how will the recovery fund interact with authority in receipt of extraordinary financial support ? may I also put on record the thank of the city to Councillor Alastair Watson and Jon Rouse , the chief executive , for the work they have do to stabilise council finance in difficult time ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and I join he in pay tribute to the council officer and council leadership in Stoke - on - Trent . as a direct cash payment — the down payment I mention early — stoke - on - Trent council will get £ 8 . 7 million , and its core spending power will increase by 8 . 6 % just in this round , but that may well over 10 % by the time the full allocation come through . that be part of the rebuilding process , and as I have say , it reflect the fact that we can not punish council because of their inherit historical tax base . we must make sure that the Government step up to their role to equalise the system so that everyone have fair access to public service . I thank the Minister for his statement . I recognise and accept the importance of proper funding for area of high deprivation , but it be important to acknowledge that council with low deprivation face rise demand for their service . in my constituency of Wokingham , child with special educational need and disability be suffer from this lack of investment . they be deprive , too , but in way that be not be measure , so their council be not get the crucial funding to look after SEND service properly . we want Wokingham borough council to get on with the job of deliver more for local resident , so how will the Minister ensure that Wokingham receive what it need ? I thank the hon . member for come to one of our surgery to make representation on behalf of his council . I know that he care about these issue . we need to be careful not to think that those who have receive the recovery grant be the only place that have deprivation , because that be not the case . the recovery grant be very targeted and have two component : one be whether the area have a weak tax base ; the other be whether the area have significantly high deprivation than other comparable area . we be clear that we need to root out deprivation and need wherever they exist . the fair funding review be intend to take into account many different component part , include the cost of rural service delivery , general overhead , premise cost , deprivation and the rest , so that , whatever the issue and whatever the context , council have confidence that the funding be correct . I thank the Minister and his team for listen to the voice of Portsmouth North and for the additional funding allocate to homelessness and rough sleeping , so that Portsmouth city council ' s project deficit can be address . it would be remiss of I not to thank the council worker , alongside Bev and all the volunteer at Helping Hands and other charity in the city . they have support the grow number of people on our street under the shameful Tory coalition ' s reign of recklessness . can the Minister confirm that after five month in government , this be just the start of additional support for our council ? can he also clarify that , should the Lib Dem - run Portsmouth city council need further advice , his door be always open ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her question to the Prime Minister early . the council ' s overall core spending power will increase by 7 . 8 % . put Portsmouth to one side , whatever measure we take in general term , we can never cast the net so wide and so thinly that we catch every council at the extreme end . if we do , the net would never get to the depth need . the door be open to any council that need a conversation about their particular circumstance . regardless of party politic , council can have absolute confidence that we will deal with they professionally , appropriately and with the respect they need . rise — member will know that if they be not here for the opening statement , they will not be call later in the statement . I draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a county councillor in Oxfordshire . in my constituency and in my surgery and correspondence , the frustration , desperation and anger of parent and child with special educational need be constant and shocking . their need be not be meet , and as the Minister have acknowledge , the funding shortfall for the high need block be significant and have lead to a deficit , which the Local Government Association estimate will be £ 3 . 6 billion at the end of this financial year . I very much welcome the Minister ' s focus on this issue , as well as that of his colleague in the Department for Education . can he assure parent and child in my constituency that , under the multi - year settlement to which he have refer , the future need of these child will be adequately meet , and the need of the council address , as we face those huge deficit ? yes , I can confirm that we be provide , with the support of the Department for Education , new funding of £ 1 billion to support the high need block in SEND for the reason that the hon . Member say . we also know that money today be not the answer in the long term . we have to reform SEND provision in the mainstream , so that parent and pupil get the support that they need . I welcome the money for homelessness in today ' s statement . evidence increasingly suggest that prevention work in homelessness . Calderdale be one of three local authority work with Crisis to pilot a system of early prevention . in six month , that have already lead to a 20 % reduction in people use temporary accommodation . will the Minister look at that work and commit to championing what work ? my hon . friend make a good point . where council such as Calderdale be do well and excelling , they be work hand in glove with the local community and voluntary organisation to ensure they get the coverage to reach into community . I applaud that work , and I hope that the 7 . 4 % uplift in core spending power in this part of the settlement go some way to support it . I thank the Minister for a positive statement on the funding that be available . government policy state that local government be the foundation of a good state , from bin collection to drive economic growth . it be paramount that that be do across the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . what discussion have the Minister have , or will he have with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland regard the possibility of secure great funding through the Barnett consequential so that Northern Ireland can have the funding it need to stimulate local , community and economic growth ? I probably have to be a bit careful not to stray into that , give that this be a statement about council in England , but the premise of the hon . member ' s question about adequate funding for local public service be correct . let we remember that council deliver more than 800 different service to local community in England . they employ more than a million people , many of whom will be local people of the community . council be a huge power and force for good , and I will certainly ensure that the representation he have make be pass on to the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . massive cut to local government service by the previous Conservative Government have see rough sleeping more than double and family in temporary accommodation regularly force to move from hotel to hotel with their belonging in black sack . I welcome the record £ 14 . 7 million in homelessness funding that the Minister ' s Department have award to Ealing council . that be an increase of almost £ 4 million . can the Minister outline how that will help those people sleep out in West Ealing and in Southall town centre tonight ? how will it end the use of hotel and bed and breakfast for family in Ealing Southall ? that be precisely why we have provide an extra £ 233 million to meet the demand . we do not take any pleasure or pride in that , actually . it be a sign of a system that be not work that we must keep on provide more and more money for temporary accommodation , to the benefit of hotel owner and not to the benefit of the people who need a safe , secure and affordable home . this funding have to be part of a wide plan . that be why the 1 . 5 million new home be so important . if we do not provide those safe , affordable home for people , we will always be in this cycle of try to play catch up , and that be not sustainable . may I , too , welcome the multi - year certainty give by the statement today ? as a former deputy leader of Milton Keynes council , I can say that it be the kind of certainty we ask for , rather than get a letter — on Christmas Eve , usually — set out what the funding might be , already halfway through our budget - set process . I also welcome the fact that Milton Keynes be get more than £ 7 million to prevent homelessness . I welcome the fact that there will be transparency , but can the Minister give reassurance to Milton Keynes that with the loss of the new home bonus , additional funding will be give to Milton Keynes to make up for that difference ? I thank my hon . friend for the advocacy that she show for Milton Keynes and for the local authority . overall core spending power in Milton Keynes will increase by 6 . 1 % , and that be only part of the settlement — the council can easily expect that to increase in its final settlement . it show that the Government be work in partnership with the council to deal with the issue that she raise . I welcome the extra funding go in to tackle homelessness , especially the £ 15 million allocate to Croydon council . after 14 year of Tory Members turn their back on local council , local councillor and the community they serve , do the Minister agree that there be a cost to do nothing when it come to reform local government funding ? can he outline what kind of support might be available to council still carry large amount of debt ? there be a legitimate question to ask the previous Government about why on earth some council be allow to borrow disproportionately to their revenue . in the end , some council have find themselves on the wrong side of that . when we be design the recovery grant , that be about deprivation and low tax basis , and deal with the quantum be about direct money to particular service , but I will be honest : there will always be council — Croydon will be one of they — which , because of their unique situation , be just outside that general allocation . we be ready to have one - to - one support conversation where need . Madam Deputy Speaker , let I wish you a lovely Christmas break . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] Don ' t put I off . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . as someone who work for a homeless charity in Harlow , I welcome the additional at least £ 1 . 2 million of funding to support homelessness and rough sleeping in Harlow as well as the additional £ 1 . 6 million of funding to neighbouring district , which partly overlap between I and the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) . that be couple with multi - year funding for council , for which I achieve cross - party support in the Harlow district council chamber . do the Minister agree that that show a clear desire by the Government to support the most vulnerable people in my constituency , but that that must come with join - up thinking on the plan 1 . 5 million new home and investment in our NHS ? that be a cute way to get a long question in — merry Christmas , Madam Deputy Speaker . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I pay tribute to the work that he do to represent the people of Harlow as well as the local authority . we stand ready to work on those long - term funding settlement issue to ensure that we genuinely rebuild the foundation . I commend the Minister for his work in bring forward the settlement to secure a fair deal for the sector , but , as many hon . member have allude to , the elephant in the room be temporary housing . that be in large part due to decision take by the last Conservative Government to freeze the housing benefit subsidy at 2011 level and cap the local housing allowance at a far low level than local housing tend to cost , with the end result be that local government be subsidise central government ' s welfare bill to an astounding extent , with two third of the council tax in my local area go towards pay that bill . as an advocate for the sector , will the Minister meet with counterpart in the relevant Departments to try to lift that cap , so that people be house at a rate that be cheap both financially and socially ? we come back again to the broken housing market . the need to build 1 . 5 million new home be there , but — let we be clear — they have to be the right home in the right place for the need in the local area . that mean not only more social home but council provision . we continue to see a cycle — we have all see today ' s inflation figure , which be drive by private rent — in which the taxpayer pay more and more for accommodation that be often substandard and do not even meet the decent home standard , with no benefit to the taxpayer . we have get to rebuild council housing and social housing and make it fit for purpose and affordable . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and merry Christmas — I win ' t get any long for say that . I thank the Minister for his statement and welcome the announcement make today . in 2010 , the last year of the previous Labour Government , St Helens borough council receive £ 127 million in central Government funding . under the Conservatives , that be cut to just £ 13 million a year . service can not be run on thin air and , despite the good effort of council staff and labour councillor , cut have have consequence . will the Minister assure I and my constituent that under this government we will get the funding for the essential service that we need ? that be exactly the reason core spending power in St Helens will increase by 8 . 6 % just through these measure . give the type of council , we could easily expect that to top 10 % . that be our down payment to say , " we need time to prepare the multi - year settlement and we need to do the fair funding review , but we know that council can not wait for that , give the last decade , " as my hon . friend describe . the last question go to the ever - patient Mark Ferguson . thank you for squeeze I in , Madam Deputy Speaker . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be glad to hear my hon . friend refer to the unfair funding formula champion by the previous Prime Minister , laser target as it be at reduce support to community like mine . there be part of Gateshead where the average life expectancy for a man be 73 year , yet the last Government focus wholeheartedly on reduce support to area of deprivation like that . I welcome the almost £ 2 million that Gateshead council be receive to tackle homelessness this year on top of its previous allocation , but give that one of the shameful legacy of the last Government be crumble infrastructure in community like mine , what effort will be make to support council like mine with the infrastructure they need ? in the end , some of it be about the quantum of funding , and some of it be about freedom of funding . take away the ringfencing and reporting be absolutely critical to that . Gateshead , and every other council , have our absolute commitment . finally , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I say thank you to the million of public sector worker , council official and , importantly , councillor for the work that they do in provide good public service every year , day in , day out ? may I wish everyone a merry Christmas and a happy settlement day ? Winter Preparedness with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on winter preparedness . before I begin , I want to say a very special thank you to all the staff who will be keep our NHS go over the Christmas holiday and into the new year . when I be a manager in the NHS , I work on winter planning , so , if I may , I will say an additional thank you to all the people who be often unseen : the manager and admin staff who also keep the system go . I know how hard it be for people to work in the system with the challenge that winter can bring through increase demand and high rate of infection . there be thing that we can not predict . Storms Bert and Darragh have add pressure , and we might have a cold snap . I know that many people like a winter cold snap of snow and ice , but it be not something that the NHS ever want to see . the NHS have excellent people who have do this before and , unlike last year , thank to the new Government , many of they will not be on strike . while we can not control the weather , we can plan , prepare and pull together , so today I want to update colleague with the current picture before move on to the thing that we be do . NHS England and the UK Health Security Agency will publish the late statistic tomorrow morning as usual , but we do know that level of seasonal illness be high . the most recent figure show that last week there be a 350 % increase in flu case compare with the same week last year , but that be comparable to level we see two year ago . norovirus case be high , but covid rate be low , and although rate of RSV — respiratory syncytial virus — have be high , we expect they to start come down over the next few week . I want to make it clear that the current rate for both bed occupancy and ambulance delay be unacceptably high . I will shortly come to measure about how we be deal with that capacity . I will not rehearse the Darzi investigation and his finding , except on one thing . I remind the House that he find " a perpetual bed crisis " , particularly during peak period like winter cold snap . that mean that every winter our staff have be waste precious time solve process problem , ring round ward to find bed and desperately try to hold the system together . we can see that in the figure . on an average evening in 2009 , a patient would have be 39th in the queue when they arrive at a typical accident and emergency department . in 2024 , they be 100th . the four - hour A & E standard have not be meet for nearly a decade and ambulance response time have not be consistently achieve since their introduction in 2017 . in November , the average ambulance response time stand at 42 minute , which be more than double the NHS constitutional standard . a third of the 2 . 3 million people who attend A & E last month wait more than four hour , and one in 10 of those people — more than 150 , 000 — wait for more than 12 hour . those life and death delay be the result of deep structural issue in the NHS that can not be fix overnight . but this winter , NHS staff will be on the frontline , not the picket line , because we take a different approach on how to work with staff and the union . to resolve the resident doctor ' dispute , we speak to they on day one , we meet they in week one , and by week four we have negotiate a deal to end their strike . that be why , for the first time in three year , the Government be fully focus on winter and not on plan for strike . this be what we be do . first , the NHS be manage extra demand by strengthen same - day emergency care and offer more fall service for old people , with upgrade 24 - hour live datum centre . secondly , we be continue to support system that be struggle with direct intervention through the NHS urgent and emergency care tiering programme . thirdly , the Secretary of State be chair weekly meeting with I and senior leader to ensure that we be manage pressure across the entire system . last week , he specially convene with trust and tell they to prioritise patient safety by focus on key metric , include improve emergency ambulance response time , address handover delay and tackle the long wait in A & E . we have make it crystal clear that we do not want trust to prioritise patient who can be see and discharge more quickly over those with the great clinical need , because this government will always prioritise people , not performance . this morning , the NHS publish a letter outline how it be prioritise patient safety . fourthly , I be take step to ensure that we get a clear picture of what be happen on the ground . I recently visit Newham hospital ' s A & E , Bristol Southmead hospital and the head office of NHS England to see the aforementioned operational control centre , where it receive datum in real time and respond to problem as they emerge . fifthly , we launch a national communication campaign in the autumn to encourage people across the country to take their winter vaccine , with a particular focus on people who be less likely to come forward . that last point be essential , because the good and easy way to keep people out of hospital this Christmas be to encourage they to come forward and get vaccinate . last year , people who receive a covid vaccine be half as likely to be admit to hospital than those who do not . so far , we have deliver over 17 million flu jab and 9 . 5 million covid jab , and we have introduce the first ever public vaccination campaign for RSV , with over a million and count vaccination deliver to protect young baby and the elderly . in total , we have deliver nearly 28 million vaccination for this winter , and I thank every person who have come forward to protect themselves and the vulnerable . now , I would like to speak directly to anyone who have not yet be vaccinate . no one want to be separate from their family and stick in hospital this Christmas , and there be a real risk that people may inadvertently take flu home to love one this year . please protect yourself , your family and the NHS , and book that appointment today , because tomorrow be the last day you can book a vaccine through the NHS app or website , although after tomorrow there will be local solution . while we tackle winter pressure in the short term , we be fix the foundation of our NHS with long - term reform . two week ago , the Prime Minister speak to the nation about our plan for change , and set out our ambition for the health service over this Parliament . we will get a grip on waiting list and return to 92 % of patient wait no long than 18 week from referral to treatment by the end of this Parliament . we be also take action on social care , introduce the large increase in the carer ' s allowance weekly earning limit since 1976 . we will ensure that carer ' s allowance meet its objective , while review unpaid carer ' s leave and look at the benefit of introduce pay carer ' s leave . we will publish an improved well care fund framework , use £ 9 billion of funding to provide well , more integrated health and social care for patient and people who draw on care . we be help disabled people on low income adapt their home through the disabled facility grant . the Employment Rights Bill be already in Committee , lay the foundation for the first ever pay agreement for care worker as a first step towards build consensus on the long - term reform need to create a national care service . by the end of our first year in government , we will deliver an extra 2 million operation , scan and appointment through innovation , investment in additional capacity and productivity gain . we be share the good of the NHS with the rest of the NHS , with our Further Faster team . these be team of expert that be support 20 trust with long wait to tackle waiting list and increase productivity . they have be deploy to five trust so far , and we be already see improvement — for example , in theatre . for this financial year , the Government have commit £ 12 billion more in everyday spending on health and social care than be plan by the last government in the spring Budget . we be give our capital - starve NHS the funding it so badly lack over the past decade , set aside at least £ 1 . 5 billion next year , which will create additional capacity , include new surgical hub and diagnostic scanner , and new bed across the estate . that will enable 30 , 000 additional procedure and over a million diagnostic test as they come online . that be the difference that a Government of service make . we have also be clear that investment must come with reform . Lord Darzi have give we the diagnosis , and the cure can be find in shift the NHS from treatment to prevention , hospital to home , and analogue to digital . Harold Wilson once call himself an optimist who carry a raincoat . as someone who have work in our NHS at this critical time , I be fully aware of the challenge we face and the effort require . I be make sure that we have a firm hold on problem in the short term , while we do the work of fix the foundation of our NHS with long - term reform . over the past 14 year , we have limp from one crisis to the next , improvise and make do with stick plaster . it can not go on . it be bad for patient care and it be totally demoralise for staff . we be build a health service that be fit for the future , ready to face every winter with confidence , and we will publish our 10 - year plan for health in the spring . anyone who think that we can not do it should remember : we have fix the NHS before , and we will fix it again . the public rightly expect we to put an end to the annual winter crisis , and that be what we will deliver . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Minister for early sight of her statement — as I have say before , it be typically courteous of she . I echo the gratitude that she express to those in our NHS , and also those in the social care workforce who will be work hard throughout the festive period . as she allude to , the NHS be already feel the pressure this winter . we know that winter be always tough for the NHS , irrespective of who be in government , but service be feel the strain even early than in previous year . a tidal wave of flu infection have lead to a 70 % increase in hospital case in just seven day , and the national medical director of the NHS have warn of a " quad - demic " of health emergency as case of covid , noroviru , RSV and winter flu be all on the rise . meanwhile , in October , the long A & e wait of over 12 hour increase by over a quarter in just one month , reach the third high monthly figure since comparable record begin in 2010 . of course , all that have come before the cold weather really hit and before more vulnerable pensioner be leave in freeze home , unable to put the heating on after the winter fuel payment be scrap for a large number . what assessment have the Minister and the Department make of the potential impact of that on hospital admission this winter ? in government , we recognise that the NHS face unique challenge in winter . we also recognise , as I know the Minister do from our previous discussion , the importance of flow in the NHS , with all part of the system work together . that be why last year we provide £ 200 million to boost NHS resilience specifically during the peak winter month , which be accompany by £ 40 million to bolster social care capacity and improve discharge from hospital . that follow the £ 1 billion announce early that year to boost capacity by deliver 5 , 000 additional bed , 800 new ambulance and 10 , 000 virtual ward place . the Secretary of State himself have admit that there will almost certainly be a winter crisis . there have be warning from the Royal College of Emergency Medicine , the Royal College of Nursing and director at NHS England . yet in today ' s statement , in contrast to the step we take , we hear a lot about datum , meeting and co - ordination , but very little in concrete term to increase capacity specifically over the winter period . that will give scant reassurance to those work in the system or patient need the system . in fact , early this year , the Secretary of State suggest that there would not be any specific new funding for the NHS to cope with winter pressure . the Minister will know that I have table a number of write question in recent day , meet in many case by what seem to be the standard DHSC response for name day question of a hold answer . as the pressure continue to grow , I have a number of specific question for the Minister while she be at the Dispatch Box . will the NHS receive more resource specifically to increase bed and A & E capacity this winter ? be there enough hospital bed and ambulance for this winter , or be she take step to increase they ? as of the 1st of the month , how many people who be medically fit to be discharge have not be , for a variety of other reason ? I be grateful for the update that the Minister provide on winter vaccination . what assessment have she make of the supply of the flu vaccine ? there be some suggestion that pharmacy and other have run out and be wait for more delivery . how many additional 111 and 999 call handler have be recruit specifically for this winter ? we talk briefly about the need for the system to work as a whole . in that context , what be the impact of national insurance contribution on hospice , social care and GPs ? the Secretary of State tell the Health and Social Care Committee this morning that hospice would get an update from he before Christmas , but at Prime Minister ' s question in response to the Leader of the Opposition , the Prime Minister appear to say that it will be after Christmas . can the Minister clarify that for the House , because it be an important point ? finally , what meeting have the Secretary of State personally have with Julian Redhead and Sarah - Jane Marsh , the NHS winter lead , and when be the first of those meeting specifically on this subject ? I be very happy for he to write to I if that be easy , give the complexity . as seasonal flu pile yet more pressure on NHS system , it be more important than ever that it get the resource and support that it need . there be many promise of reform , but the NHS need an immediate capacity boost in bed over winter . so far , the Government have kick reform into the long grass in favour of yet more consultation , and their preparation for winter have lack the urgency and focus that patient and NHS staff demand . in government , the conservative always put extra support in place to keep the NHS go through the tough winter period , boost capacity and increase support . this Government need to get a grip and do the same . I will do my good to address that range of question . first , as even a stop clock be right once — [ interruption . ] yes , twice . on that basis , I agree with the right hon . Gentleman . on correspondence and answer to parliamentary question , again , the situation we inherit be not satisfactory . I apologise to all member who be wait for correspondence — it be something we be take a grip of . we want to respond positively to question . the Conservatives do not ; we will make sure that start to happen . on capacity in the system , again , I remind member that we come into office in July , which be one quarter of the way through the planning and financial year . we very rapidly look at the plan that be bake in by the previous Government — I appreciate that the right hon . Gentleman be in the Ministry of Justice at the time , not the Health and Social Care Department — to see whether they be fit for purpose . we want to make sure we bring stability to the system . there be , in fact , more bed currently available in the system than last year . if there be a need to increase capacity due to a likely cold snap , the system be absolutely ready to respond in its usual way . that be why we be meet weekly . on meeting with clinical and managerial colleague at NHS England — who , frankly , I see more often than many member of my own family — I can tell the right hon . Gentleman that we start those meeting immediately . I would have to check the exact date , but it be certainly in the summer . I have have fortnightly meeting since September , which , as I say , we can move to monthly meeting , chair by the Secretary of State . we begin get a grip from day one , know that winter be come , which be why I be monitor the situation weekly . it be also why we visit the operational centre , to understand in real time what be happen across every single system and every single trust — be that ambulance issue or problem at the front end and in A & E . the one question I do not directly have the answer to be what the daily figure be ; I will try to get those figure to the right hon . Gentleman later . we all know that wait for discharge to assess be a massive problem . that be why , as I say in my statement , we want to take a grip of the well care fund , to ensure it work well and to stabilise the social care system . I be not particularly verse in issue on supply , so I apologise if that be wrong . we will certainly get back to the right hon . gentleman on that matter , because we want people to be take the vaccination where necessary . I can confirm that we want an announcement on hospice before Christmas . on winter fuel and its impact , as Opposition Members know , we will continue to monitor the impact of all situation on individual to ensure they be support in the community . we urge people to make sure they access pension credit . [ interruption . ] I have just address that , but if I have miss anything , I will come back to it . despite York ' s new emergency department , a consultant have describe to I the situation in emergency medicine , where patient be wait for day to be discharge and 50 patient be wait to be place on ward . we know we have inherit a broken nhs . will the Minister say what she be do first to enable primary care to pull more patient out of emergency medicine , in order to see people in the community , and secondly to invest in social care , which will clearly address some of the backlog and the logjam in patient flow ? my hon . friend ' s comment reinforce how much pressure , we understand , be front face . a & E be demonstrative of the overall pressure in the system , not just at discharge but , as she rightly say , in primary care . we take action in the summer to improve primary care , increase the number of GPs available in the system . it be absolutely critical that primary care community service be integral to winter planning at a local level . that be what we expect from every single system . we will continue to monitor that over the winter period and into the spring . if those service be not involve in plan for any particular system , enable they to monitor the surge and flow of people , we very much want to understand how that be work . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I express my thank and those of my Lib Dem colleague to everyone work over the Christmas period to keep people healthy and safe . preparedness for winter be absolutely critical for our health and care system , and a quick look at what happen last year show we why . ambulance across England collectively spend a total of 112 year wait outside hospital to hand patient over , and a quarter of a million people wait more than 12 hour to be see . every winter we be warn of a winter crisis . under the Conservatives , crisis become the norm not just in winter but all year round . this year be very concern so far . a & Es have overflow through spring , summer and autumn . at my local hospital trust , Shrewsbury and Telford , one in three ambulance have have to wait more than an hour to hand over patient , while patient with devastating cancer diagnosis have have to wait month for crucial scan result . across England , more than 7 million people be on waiting list . [ Official Report , 8 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 8WC . ] ( correction ) meanwhile , I be afraid , we have not hear enough from the Government on fix one of the root cause of this crisis , which be our broken social care system . the scale of the crisis be demonstrate by the challenge face ambulance service across the country at the moment . October — before the winter — be the third bad month ever for handover delay at West Midlands ambulance service , which cover my constituency . the equivalent of 130 ambulance crew be out of action , wait every single day . now these overstretch ambulance service be formally change their advice to reflect the pressure they be under . at time of peak demand , even category 2 patient — those suffer a heart attack or a stroke — will be ask to make their own way to a hospital . People in North Shropshire have long have to put up with some of the bad ambulance wait in the country , and they have come to harm as a result . it may no long be the case that they can rely on an ambulance arrive . action be urgently need to prevent more preventable death this winter . I be sure the Minister share my alarm that ambulance may not be reach people face life - threaten situation . if she do , will she commit today to the Government tackle the handover delay paralyse the ambulance service by accept liberal Democrat proposal to make a £ 1 . 5 billion fund to provide more staffed bed , and by agree to urgent cross - party talk to fix the crisis in social care ? I think I have address the Government ' s plan on social care . the hon . Lady make an excellent point on ambulance delay , which we know to be a problem , and particularly so in the west midland . that be one of the thing I have ask the system to look at particularly , so that the Government and hon . member can well understand the particular problem in their particular system . we know that ambulance and handover delay be a particular problem in some system . we be make sure that clinical and managerial lead from NHS England be visit those system and that they be understand in depth the process issue in some place , where they may not be adopt the good practice that can be learn from other . we need to roll out good practice across the country . when the Secretary of State and I visit the operational centre of the London ambulance service , we sit in on some hear - and - treat call ; in deal with people in mental health crisis , in particular , some place be do that well than other . those be the sort of example we want to learn from . I absolutely hear what the hon . Lady say about the unacceptable delay in particular part of the country . that be very much on our priority list . I call a member of the Health and Social Care Committee . last week , I visit Basildon hospital , which be rely on by my constituent and people across Essex . staff in the emergency department tell I that they be operate under intense pressure all year round , and that it be indeed winter all year for they . that be due to a lack of bed , the terrible condition of part of the estate and inadequate primary care service , mean that people turn up at the ED when they should be somewhere more appropriate . what step be the Minister take to turn the page on 14 year of decline , and to ensure that Basildon and hospital across the country have the resource and structure they need to well manage seasonal and year - round pressure ? my hon . friend have already be a fantastic advocate for her local NHS service . like the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the acute pressure all year round . we do not always have winter crisis under the last Labour Government . it be tough ; I work during some of that time , and it do happen , but get use to such level of bed occupancy and pressure in the system all year round be a direct legacy of the Conservatives and what they do to the NHS , particularly with the Lansley reform , and their refusal to take a grip of it . this matter of a summer crisis go into a winter crisis be a real problem . that be why we be committed to these short - term measure to stabilise and support the system over the winter . however , as I say in my statement , we will also look at medium and long - term reform so that we do not have to revisit this scenario year on year . I call the Chair of the Health Committee . last Friday , I visit Sherwood Pharmacy in Abingdon . Ben , who own it , tell I that local pharmacy stand ready to help . in fact , they be more than keen to help , but there be two thing that he need from the Government . first , there need to be a real push for GPs to refer people to pharmacy , in particular for vaccination , so that we be not collect patient in one already overstretch part of the system and they can do what they do well . secondly , there need to be a general plea to the public that they can go to their pharmacy for those thing . I note that in her statement the Minister do not mention pharmacy once . let we be honest , this question be not go to do it either . how do we ensure that the message — " go to your pharmacy and get vaccinate , you can do it fast there " — get out there this winter ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her point . she be right that I do not mention pharmacy , which be an omission on my part . we be run an advertising campaign , " think Pharmacy First " , to ensure people use pharmacy . she be absolutely right that they stand ready . I will visit mine over the next few day to make sure I be vaccinate . their support , work with primary care , be critical . again , in some place relationship be work well and pharmacy support people in the community — that be apparent in the statistic . we be absolutely committed to ensure that that work well , as part of our long - term reform . I call a member of the Select Committee . last week , Calderdale and Huddersfield NHS foundation trust ' s bed occupancy be at 99 . 6 % . some 20 . 1 % of those bed , because of the failure of social healthcare and community care , be take up by people who could be treat elsewhere . all I want for Christmas be a reassurance that , next Christmas and next winter , social care will be on a more secure footing . my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight those shocking level of bed occupancy . as I say early , run consistently at that high level of occupancy be something we should never have get use to . that discharge rate be demoralise for staff , very bad for patient and a sign of the pressure in the system . we absolutely must ensure the system be incentivise and work properly to make our hospital - to - community commitment , one of our three shift , operate in practice . People do not want to be in hospital when they do not need to be and it be not the good place for they to be . we will be say more about that in the new year . we hear today about a massive backlog at the Department for Work and Pensions in process pension credit and winter fuel payment claim . bear in mind that cold home increase winter death and hospital admission , and that we be debate winter preparedness today , what discussion have the Minister have with the DWP to ensure that those in my constituency who be wait for their winter fuel payment will receive they before the Christmas break ? will she commit to publish a full impact assessment of that decision on the NHS ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . we have discuss this issue a number of time in this place . we absolutely understand the impact of cold and heat on the system and on people . it be something we need to address more generally . she will be aware that discussion on this issue be continue with the DWP . if there be specific example she want to raise with I or the Department , I be very happy to look at they . I welcome today ' s statement and take a moment to thank emergency service in Harlow and across the country who be give up spending time with their family at Christmas to keep we all safe . East of England ambulance service have set up a new process to support paramedic and Princess Alexandra hospital , which will give they a direct line to a gp who can triage patient and send they to the right department straight away . what be the Department of Health and Social Care do to work with ambulance service across the country to learn from that and share good practice ? again , my hon . friend be already represent the people of his constituency so well by get to the heart of what be happen on the ground , learn it for himself and bring such example to the House . he be absolutely right that there be such example across the country , work differently in different system , which be challenge other system to look at that practice . that be why we say we want to bring the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . that be exactly what we mean . I be confident in the work happen centrally at NHS England . it be learn from such example and want to go around the country to ensure that we spread those sort of idea to other place . we be look at they all very closely . I call Andrew George , a member of the Select Committee . in the far west of Cornwall , in a medical emergency we can not look for additional support from the north , west or south , because it be sea . the urgent treatment centre at Penzance hospital be close two and a half year ago , under the Conservatives , add pressure to the only emergency department for the next 100 mile , which be in Truro , and the out - of - hour doctor service have no doctor . the Minister mention in her statement that the NHS urgent and emergency care tiering programme be able to help . will she use her influence to reopen the urgent treatment centre so that we can have a 24 / 7 emergency service in the far west of Cornwall ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I to make commitment from the Dispatch Box , which I be not go to do . he make a very serious point . the sea be an issue for many hon . member — beautiful though it be , it have an impact on the ability of the system to manage different area . look at different solution for population such as those he represent — be that 111 , hear and treat system , more use of technology , and pharmacy and community out - of - hospital care — be exactly what we think be the right way to go in the next few year , as part of the long - term plan . that may or may not be a building with service . we need to look at that in the round and learn from what work well in different sort of system . rise — order . the question seem to be get long and long , as do the response . let we try to keep the question on point , and no doubt the answer will be the same . when I start work in public health , winter pressure be just that : seasonal flu and extra hip fracture . under the Conservatives , winter start get long and long . how will our 10 - year plan ensure that seasonal pressure actually become seasonal and manageable again ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . we need to get back to normal and we need to recognise that there be different thing happen to the system at different time of the year , much of which be predictable . we need to ensure that the system be strong enough to be able to cope with those difference . as we come into the height of winter , will the Minister join I in thank all the amazing people on the frontline who be diagnose , treat and care for people right across the country ? with multiple infectious disease challenge , the impact of cold and extreme weather , and the risk of fall and accident , will the Government please now rethink their policy on winter fuel cut and national insurance rise , which will exacerbate the situation and compromise the delivery of primary healthcare , social care and hospice care ? I join the hon . gentleman in thank everyone who work in the system . as I say , the NHS be get £ 12 billion more this year from this government than it have from the previous Government in the spring Budget . we be now focused on ensure that money be use properly . let I take this opportunity to thank healthcare worker in Bracknell Forest , who will be work so hard across the Christmas period to keep patient safe this winter . do the Minister agree that we must ensure that we have not only the right investment in our health service but the right reform , so that we can fix the broken NHS and get it back on its foot ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we want to make sure that taxpayer ' money be use efficiently and effectively in the right place for the right treatment at the right time . that be why we be look at our long - term plan . that be why we want to stabilise the system , so we do not have to keep come back here year after year with a so - call winter crisis . I note that the Minister think that the absence of the word " pharmacy " from her statement be an omission . I wonder whether she also think that the absence of the word " general practice " be an omission . I have be visit some of my local GP surgery , and one tell I that , as a result of the NIC rise , it be face charge of £ 40 , 000 . that equate to a staff member , so it will have to consider lay off a member of staff . will the Minister please explain how gps lay off staff will help they to cope with the winter crisis ? as I think the hon . Gentleman know , I can not talk about individual case from the Dispatch Box , but we will be make announcement on that subject very shortly . I thank the Minister for her statement , and also thank my recent former NHS colleague , especially those in Sunderland , for what they will be do over the winter . the Minister have rightly highlight unacceptable level of bed occupancy as we go into winter ; we know that as bed occupancy increase to unacceptable level , there be a rise in patient safety risk . what assessment have she make of the patient safety monitoring regime over the winter , link to those risk ? we have make it absolutely clear , as do the NHS in its letter today , that patient safety be the watchword this winter . we have target in relation to monitor the performance of the system , but we absolutely want to ensure that patient be keep safe as we go through the next few month . yesterday I speak to an elderly gentleman who be take himself off to his local pharmacy to receive the RSV jab , but because he be over 80 he be go to pay more than £ 200 for it . will the Minister please tell we how much the RSV jab cost the Department when it be free for 75 to 80 - year - old , and how much guidance or limitation it place on the profit that can be take by chemist who give it to people who be over 80 ? I think the hon . Gentleman know that I can not do that from the Dispatch Box , but my official will have hear his request and what he have say about that specific case , and I will ensure that he receive an answer . I pay tribute to the hard - work NHS staff in Norwich and in Norfolk as a whole . Norfolk County Council have use artificial intelligence to identify more than 1 , 000 people who be risk of be admit to hospital because of fall this Christmas . do the Minister welcome that use of AI , and will she expand on how we be use technology , now and in the future , to help alleviate winter pressure ? I do not wish to test your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , but good fall practice have not be prioritise over the past decade , and the failure to prioritise it and continue the work that I know be be do many year ago be yet another testament to the failure of the conservative party . my hon . friend be right to refer to the way we can use AI to help the system to improve , so that this hugely preventable problem , which be so damaging to the elderly in particular , no long occur . winter pressure come around every year for all sort of reason . the difference this year be the political choice to take the winter fuel payment away from million of pensioner . worse still , the 44 , 000 pensioner live with a terminal illness will lose that payment . I can not believe that a Minister as diligent as the hon . Lady have not carry out an impact assessment of the cost to the NHS of people be leave in cold home . my right hon . friend the Member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) — the shadow Secretary of State — and my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) ask for such an assessment . may I give the Minister another chance to commit to publish it ? the hon . Gentleman be wholly wrong to say that winter crisis happen under every Government in every year . they happen , and become a fact of the NHS , under his party ' s Government . the key difference this year , which the Conservatives will still not address , be the fact that doctor be not on strike . doctor be work in the system , care for patient and do their job , because this government , on day one and week one and week four , deliver the negotiate settlement with the doctor . we can not run the NHS and we can not manage a winter crisis without doctor in the frontline , and that be where they be . that be what the difference be . it be great to be go into the winter for the first time in four year without doctor be on strike . last week I visit the new emergency medical receiving unit at Stoke Mandeville hospital , a 21 - bed facility to provide quick care for patient who come in from ambulance and as a result of GP referral but require only short admission . the early result look very promising . do the Minister agree that we must take these pocket of good practice from across the NHS and ensure that other part of the NHS learn from and adopt they to help we get through this winter and future winter ? I commend my hon . friend for , as a new MP , get to grip in detail with what be happen in her local system and challenge that system , while also give we those example of good practice so that we can all learn from they . as she say , many part of the NHS across the country want to learn from they , and we want to ensure that they be mainstreame where possible . there be different solution for different system , but she be absolutely right to highlight that one . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a member of the University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust . the upcoming rise in national insurance contribution could cost our GP surgery the equivalent of more than 2 million appointment a year . general practice be the cornerstone of the NHS ; it be our front door . many gps in my constituency have write to I to express their serious concern . do the Minister recognise that hike cost for family doctor will only worsen pressure on our hospital , push more people towards a & E and prevent many from receive the care they need ? we recognise all the cost to gps , as contractor , and to many other part of the system , as we have say many time in the House . we also recognise the improvement that we have make to the system by improve the number of GPs and fund the NHS by more than the last Government do . we will continue to look at that in the round to ensure that we have a sustainable system . one of the main reason I become a politician be the fact that my wife be a midwife . she would come home night after night complain bitterly about staff shortage on the ward . can the Minister reassure I that maternity service will receive all the fund they need over the winter , and will she join I in thank all those maternity staff who work so hard over Christmas , over the new year , and all year round ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . many tragedy happen over the Christmas period — my own father die on 23 December . those staff member go above and beyond to help people at difficult time , but also at time of great joy — baby do not wait for Father Christmas , do they ? — and my hon . friend be right to commend midwife and everyone else who be work at this time . we know that maternity service be particularly stretch across most of the country . those midwife be do a tremendous job in keep the system work , and do the critically important job of support woman at a mostly joyous but sometimes very difficult time . at the start of this week , 300 patient be ready to go home from my local NHS hospital trust in Sussex . that bear out the statistic in Lord Darzi ' s report that 13 % of patient be medically fit for discharge . I be really concerned that we have now reach a point with winter pressure where corridor wait be normalise , not only in A & E department but in the case of initiative such as continuous flow model , with corridor trolley wait be push into regular ward . it be unacceptable that this have become normalise . will the Minister expand on her comment about the national care service ? when will the plan be publish ? will the Government work with we on a cross - party basis , and why do this work not begin soon ? as I say in my statement , we have begin plan to stabilise the workforce and the employment Bill be go through the House , so I do not agree with the hon . Lady on that point . we know that it will take a long time , and we will of course be work with colleague to ensure that we do develop that national care service . let I begin by echo the Minister ' s word and thank the fantastic NHS worker and those in the wraparound service who provide a vital service in Portsmouth all year round , but particularly in winter . let I also thank all the member who turn up for the joint NHS consultation with I and with the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) . unfortunately , owe to the scale of the damage do to the NHS by the last government , our NHS provider have to make very difficult decision at this time . can the Minister reassure I and my constituent , that patient safety , and emergency service in particular , will be this Government ' s first priority during the winter ? I be very pleased to reiterate that safety be the watchword for winter , as it be all year round , and to stress that that be why NHS England write about it today . I commend my hon . friend for meet her constituent locally , and I urge all member to do the same . we be get some fantastic idea from staff and from patient about how to reform and change the system for the long term . one in four people try to contact their GPs last month be unable to get a same - day appointment , and one in 20 could not get through to their GPs at all . we know that these people end up in A & Es up and down the country , and that hospital be already buckle under the strain . what be the Minister do to improve support for gps and frontline service during this winter crisis , especially while they navigate the challenge of the employer NICs rise ? I refer back to what I say in my statement about how we be support the system . we absolutely understand the importance of primary care , and of use 111 to make sure that people be direct towards get the right care in the right place . we know that the system be under pressure , and we will continue to do all we can to support it in the long term , as well as in the short term . I recently visit Northumbria specialist emergency care hospital in Cramlington in my constituency . I meet the staff there , who share their concern about winter pressure . every year , they closely track the flu season in Australia , give that the pattern that emerge there be often what follow here . they be extremely concerned about what we be go into this winter . what step have the Department take to ensure that as many people as possible be vaccinate this winter ? I be work very closely with the UK Health Security Agency to make sure that , week on week , we be aware of the movement of different disease and virus through the system , and we will continue to publicise the campaign to get people vaccinate . anything that hon . member can do to support that campaign , and to make sure that people support themselves and their loved one , will be gratefully receive by the entire system . the campaign be something that everyone can get behind . while we all pay tribute to the NHS staff who work over Christmas , we should remember that they be not only miss Christmas with their family , but put their own health at risk in care for we . on Monday , Winchester hospital declare a critical incident , say that it could admit no more patient and ask people to seek treatment elsewhere . for year , the chief executive officer of the hospital have be request 160 extra social care package , because the lack of social care be stop the flow of patient through the hospital . she say that provide such package be the single big thing that would help deal with the winter crisis . in September , Winchester hospital apply for winter crisis funding to put an urgent treatment centre on the front of its A & E department to help deal with the anticipated extra caseload . it be now December , and the hospital have still not hear whether it will get the funding . give the number of critical incident be declare , will the Minister meet I and the ceo to discuss how we can support the hospital through this situation , and how we can avoid have a plan crisis next winter ? as I say early , different system have different issue . funding have be allocate in advance to the NHS so that it understand which system require funding , and that have now be bake in for this year . I can not address the hon . Gentleman ' s point directly from the Dispatch Box , but I be very happy for official to take note of they and to check with the system on what be happen in his particular community . obviously , it be important that Winchester hospital work closely with its local authority with regard to discharge . we want to improve the well care fund , and I be sure that he will work with the local authority and his hospital to make sure that it work well . I declare an interest : I be a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital , and I have a family member who have share in a medical company . the Royal Berkshire hospital have experience its high increase in emergency department attendance as we head into the winter period , yet the estate of the Royal Berks be crumble , out of date and not fit for purpose . People with infectious disease , such as flu , covid and noroviru , can not easily be isolate due to poor air circulation , which only make the situation bad . when will the Royal Berkshire hospital be rebuild , and will the Minister visit it to see the full extent of our challenge ? finally , may I wish the Secretary of State and the Minister a merry Christmas ? they should take a short break but come back quickly to continue to clear up the Conservatives ’ massive failure on the NHS . hopefully , we will make announcement on the Royal Berkshire hospital and other as soon as possible in the new year , as I know that this issue be of great concern to all hon . member . we know that the system will be under pressure , and we thank everyone work in it . we want to make sure that everyone keep well , and I will take this opportunity to thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . I be look forward to return here in January , hopefully to answer more question . I thank hon . member for their question this afternoon . copyright and Artificial Intelligence and now for something completely different ! with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement regard our launch of a public consultation on copyright and artificial intelligence . the United Kingdom have a proud tradition of creativity and technical innovation . from our film and television sector to video game , publishing , music , design and fashion , our creative industry be a cornerstone of our economy and our creative identity . they bring £ 125 billion to the economy and employ over 2 . 3 million people . James Bond , the Beatles , Vivienne Westwood , Adele , " Vera " , Bridget Riley , " Tomb Raider " , the Sugababes , " Football Manager " , Paddington and Paul Smith be all part of an immensely valuable british industry . the creative industry be central to our economic future , and we be determined to help they flourish . the same be true of artificial intelligence — both as an enabler of other industry , include the creative industry , and as a sector in its own right . the Government be determined to capitalise on the UK ' s position of strength in the global AI sector and will soon publish the AI opportunitie action plan , which will set out an ambitious road map to unlock AI ' s transformative potential across our economy and public service . both the creative industry and AI sector be at the heart of our industrial strategy , and they be also increasingly interlink . AI be already be use across the creative industry , from music and film production to publishing , architecture and design ; it have transform post - production , for instance . as of September 2024 , more than 38 % of creative industry business say that they have use AI technology , with nearly 50 % use AI to improve their business operation . strong copyright law have be the bedrock of the creative industry , but as thing stand , the application of UK copyright law to the training of AI model be fiercely dispute . right holder , include musician , record label , artist and news publisher , be find it difficult to control the use of their work to train AI model , and they want and need a great ability to manage such activity and to be pay for it . likewise , AI developer , include UK - base start - up , be find it difficult to navigate copyright law and complain that the legal uncertainty mean that they be unable to train lead model in the UK . the status quo can not continue . it risk limit investment , innovation and growth in the creative industry , the AI sector and the wide economy . neither side can afford to wait for expensive litigation — either here or in the US — to clarify the law , not least because court in different jurisdiction may come to different conclusion and individual case may not provide clarity across the sector . nor can we simply rely on voluntary co - operation . that be why we think the Government must take proactive and thoughtful action that work for all party . the consultation publish yesterday set out clearly that the Government ' s objective on this issue be threefold : to enhance right holder ' control of their material and their ability to be pay for its use , to support wide access to high - quality material to drive the development of lead AI model in the UK , and to secure great transparency from AI developer in order to build trust with creator , creative industry and consumer . in short , we want to provide legal certainty for all and to secure enhanced licensing of content . there be three key aspect to our consultation . the first be increase transparency from AI developer . that include the content that they have use in train their large language model , how they acquire it , and any content generate by their model . in other word , consumer should know whether a book or song have be generate by a person or by artificial intelligence , and whose content help generate it in the first place . the second aspect be a new system of right reservation , whereby right holder can withhold their content from be use unless and until it have be license . the third be an exception to copyright law for text and datum mining where right holder have license their content or otherwise choose not to reserve their right . that would improve access to content by AI developer , while allow right holder to control how their content be use for AI training . those measure be contingent upon each other . progress together , we believe this package of measure could enhance the ability of right holder to protect their material and seek payment for its use through increase licensing , while also enable AI developer to train lead model in the UK in full compliance with UK law . it will , however , only work if there be a proper system of right reservation in place . I urge everyone to read and respond to the consultation document and to examine the safeguard we be propose for right holder . I would especially urge both AI developer and right holder to work with we to identify a simple , practical , proportionate and effective technical system of right reservation , without which the whole package will not work . we be conscious that the UK do not operate in a hermetically seal bubble , and this provide its own challenge . if we be to adopt a too tight regime base on proactive explicit permission , the danger be that international developer would continue to train their model use UK content access overseas but may not be able to deploy they in the UK . as AI become increasingly powerful and widely adopt globally , this could significantly disadvantage sector across our economy , include the creative industry , and sweep the rug from underneath british AI developer . that be why , as well take this approach in the UK , we be commit to international engagement and recognise the importance of international alignment . this consultation be a joint effort between the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Intellectual Property Office , and between the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my wonderful hon . friend the Member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) , who have responsibility for AI , and I , with responsibility for the creative industry . this be not an academic exercise . the consultation be absolutely clear that we will not implement these change unless and until we be confident that we have a practical , practicable and effective plan that meet our objective of enhance right holder control , provide legal certainty around AI firm ' access to content , and provide transparency for right holder and AI developer of all size . my fellow Minister and I will be engage directly with a wide range of people in an attempt to find practical and technical solution to this question . many people have call this an existential question for our creative industry . they be right . we therefore see this consultation as a pivotal opportunity to ensure that sustained growth and innovation for the UK ' s AI sector continue to benefit creator , business and consumer alike while preserve the value and principle that make our creative industry so unique . we believe that there be a potential win - win solution , and that the UK , with its strong tradition of copyright and technological innovation , be in a unique place to deliver it . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister , Dr Ben Spencer . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . Britain be a world leader in the creative industry , from music to art to literature to our free and independent medium . I say as a shadow Science , Innovation and Technology Minister that , while we need science to live , the art make life worth live . the UK also have a world lead tech sector . the invention of generative artificial intelligence provide many opportunity , but particularly for the creative industry the data mining behind AI model can breach copyright . that present challenge around authenticity when they be use to mimic artist and creative work , and there be a lack of legal clarity around the status of computer - generate work . we must tackle and respond to those issue . Britain ' s creative industry employ nearly 2 . 4 million people and contribute £ 125 billion to our economy , but we must also recognise that we be part of a global technological ecosystem and if we fall behind in support our artificial intelligence industry it will move elsewhere . let we be clear : the genie be out of the bottle and the world be scrabble to respond to it . as always there be a balance to be strike to ensure we take the opportunity on offer to revolutionise working practice and to deliver productivity through technological innovation , so we welcome work and investigation in this area on both the role of regulation and the option available . give the delay in the Minister bring this work forward , he must recognise that this be a complex area to regulate , especially give the international and domestic interconnectivitie . sadly , rather than take an open position as an honest broker , it be clear today that the Government have already pick one side in this debate . the Minister ' s preference for a data mining opt - out for the creative industry will place extra burden on creator to protect their intellectual property . give the magnitude of the impact of his proposal , why have he release this consultation now , just before the Christmas break , and why be it limit to only 10 week ? so when I be benefit from UK creative talent over the Christmas period , whether listen to the Sugababes or watch Daniel Craig as James Bond — Bond be blond — the creative sector will be respond to a consultation that the livelihood of those who work in the sector depend on . will the Minister extend the consultation ? can the Minister explain how the opt - out will ensure protection to creator ? and in form this position , how many time have he already meet representative from the technology and creative sector both domestically and internationally ? the Minister should be well aware , follow five month of fall business confidence , that one thing that business dislike be uncertainty , but this announcement of an opt - out represent nothing but uncertainty for the creative industry . rather than prioritise their need to be see to be do something , the Government need to start learn to do thing right . I call our very own James Bond , Minister Chris Bryant . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . fortunately , I ask chatgpt what the shadow Minister would ask I and it be pretty much right — although some of the question from ChatGPT be rather more to the point . I will deal with the serious point he make . first , the shadow Minister raise the point about mimic artist . that be one of the thing we be consult on . there be a legitimate question about whether we should take further action in this country . Tennessee have act : it have get its ELVIS Act — the Ensuring Likeness Voice and Image Security Act . California and a couple of other state in the United States of America have act on this already , and whether we should move in that direction be a perfectly legitimate question . likewise , the shadow Minister refer to computer - generate work . he will probably know that under section 9 ( 3 ) of the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 there be provision that seem to guarantee the right for computer - generate art to be copyright - protect . that be not the case in most other country , and it could be argue that development in recent copyright law on the nature of originality would suggest that , unless a human being be directly involve in the creation of the work , there should not be copyright protection . we have suggest a direction of travel to get rid of section 9 ( 3 ) of the Act . the shadow Minister say that we have delay bring this forward , but I merely point out that for quite a long time the previous Government say that they would bring forward a voluntary system , bring the two side together . nothing whatsoever come from that , so I be afraid that feel a bit of a cheat . what I want to contest be the idea that we have side with one or the other . there be a legitimate problem , which be that AI company and the creative industry be at loggerhead in the court in several different jurisdiction on several different point which be moot at the moment . we do not think that simply stand by the present situation will suffice because the danger be that in two or three year ' time all UK content will have be scrape by one or other AI develop company somewhere else in the world if there be no legal clarity in the UK . I would like to be able to bring all that home so that AI operator can work in this country with security under the law , use UK copyright that have be license and pay for , because that be another potential revenue stream for creator in this country . the shadow Minister ask about extend the consultation . I be not go to extend the consultation . we want to crack on with this piece of work . only two minute early in his speech he say that we be delay bring it forward and then he say we should delay far . it be time that we seize hold of this . I certainly will meet with a large number of people . my fellow Minister my hon . friend the Member for Enfield North and I have meet many different organisation and we will be provide a list because it will be in our transparency return publish soon , and the number must run to dozen if not hundred . of course , there be differ view , but I make it absolutely clear that the three measure we be talk about — the transparency on input and output that AI developer will have to provide , the provision for creator to reserve their right , and the exemption for datum mining for commercial purpose — be contingent upon each other . we will not move forward with such a package unless there be a technical solution to the question of how people can reserve their right . at the weekend , I look online to see what it would be like to try to reserve right , by pretend to be various musician and artist . at present , it be phenomenally difficult and complicated — other member may have question about this — and that must change . there must be a proper right reservation system that be easy to use , practicable and enable creator , either individually or collectively , to assert and maintain control of their right . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . the UK be in a unique position — second in the world in the creative industry , and in the top three for AI innovation — so get the right solution to protect and support our intellectual property , while support and incentivise AI innovation , be uniquely important to our cultural and economic life . I be a former regulator and charter engineer , so I welcome the Minister ' s decision to go with regulatory technology as the solution , and to challenge the tech sector to come up with technology to ensure we can have both the reservation of right and the transparency of input to large language model , both of which be critical . the tech sector too often spend less time protect people and property than maximise profit , but the language of the consultation be a bit vague . the Minister talk about arrive at a plan rather than a solution , so will he make it absolutely clear that any text and datum mining exemption be contingent on the technology be deliverable , implementable and workable , and that if the technology fail , the exemption fail ? I welcome the Chair of the Select Committee to her place . she be 100 % right that we can not have the text and datum mining exemption for commercial purpose unless there be a proper right reservation system in place . I do not know whether she have look at right reservation , but it be terribly complicated . People can use the robot exclusion protocol , but it be rather out of date and be avoid by many player in the market . it be very complicated and apply only to a person ' s own website , whereas their creative input might not be on their personal website — it might be on somebody else ' s . I try to create a Bridget Riley use an AI bot over the weekend . the bot have obviously train itself on some Bridget Riley work , but it be a shockingly bad Bridget Riley — it be nowhere near . I want to ask whether it have use Bridget Riley ' s work to learn how to make a Bridget riley - like picture and , if so , whether Bridget Riley receive any compensation . Bridget Riley could use another website , haveibeentraine . com , if she want , but it be phenomenally complicated . that be precisely what must change . the AI company must come up with a technical solution , whether they produce music , text or whatever . without that , we will not be able to progress . it be always easy if the Minister look at the Chair , so we can ensure that we be stick to time limit . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the UK can and should be a global leader in AI innovation , and I welcome this consultation . investment and support for technological innovation will be a crucial pillar of grow our economy and solve the problem of today and tomorrow . likewise , our world - lead creative industry must remain a growth priority . in my constituency , I see the invaluable contribution that the film industry make to the local and national economy , drive growth while produce top - quality content . we might not have James Bond , but we have have " Robin Hood " and " Deadpool " , and " Wicked " be recently film just over the border . the creative industry have be clear that failure to apply exist copyright law to AI model training present an existential threat . they be be ask to allow their output to be use to train model that could be in direct competition with they . we must get this balance right . there be no uncertainty in exist law . UK law be totally clear that commercial organisation must license the datum they use to train their large language model . the announcement that the Government favour a text and datum mining exemption will be deeply concern to the creative industry . the issue be think to be settle under the previous Government , so what assessment have the Government make of the likely impact of their favour option on the creative industry ? the expectation seem to be that small business in the creative industry should welcome an opt - out system in exchange for vague commitment to transparency , so will the Minister lie out what successful , workable example of an opt - out system he have look at ? can he give we example of where this approach have successfully protect creative ? why have the option of an opt - in not be include in the consultation ? as have be say previously , the creative industry add £ 125 billion a year in gross value to the economy and go hand in hand with our digital economy . it be essential that the Government support AI innovation , but that can not come at the cost of our world - lead creative industry . Madam Deputy Speaker , I will look at you to make sure that I do not go over time , but I would point out that " Wicked " be far too long a movie . I make it clear that I do not think there be a complete separation between AI and the creative industry . AI be a creative industry in many regard . there be an important collaboration between the two , and even Sir Paul McCartney have say that he have use AI to help he write some of his most recent work . the hon . Lady say this be all settle under the previous Government , but nothing in this territory be settle under the previous Government . it be simply leave hang in the air , which be why we be try to take action . she ask whether there be any successful example of opt - out . no , there be not . precisely the point I be try to make be that , at the moment , it be remarkably difficult for individual and organisation — whether a record label , an individual artist or photographer , or whoever — to protect their right . that be what need to change . there have be some licensing . some newspaper have license content with OpenAI . Sony Music have write to all the different AI operator to say that all the work that it protect be copyright and not to be use . but I be not sure that such piecemeal process be enough to build the control we want for right holder , while enable AI to develop fruitfully in the UK . I welcome this consultation and my hon . friend ' s recognition that neither we nor this stuff exist in a bubble . what do he make of the NO fakes — Nurture original , Foster Art , and keep Entertainment Safe — Bill , currently in the US House of Representatives , which protect personality and likeness of human writer and artist against misappropriation ? the Minister say he be in meeting mode . do he know what be happen with the consultation on live event ticket ? it would be great to meet he to discuss my private Member ' s Bill — the anti - oasis - style scam , rip - off ticket Bill — which be be squash by Friday filibustering . I think my hon . friend , who be on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , take advantage of the change in the Chair to get away with ask a question that have absolutely nothing to do with this consultation . on live ticketing , I be absolutely certain that the Government will have something to say soon — the word " soon " mean precisely what I choose it to mean . on publicity right , my hon . friend be quite right that that be a significant question that we will ask during the consultation . there be an argument for bring in legislation in the UK . California , as I say , have a digital replicas law and Tennessee have the ELVIS Act , which stand for eliminate limit on the voice ' s intrinsic sovereignty . I think that be an attempt to cram that into the word " Elvis " . she be right that the US Copyright Office be argue for a federal digital replica law , and we might want to go down that route as well . I urge my hon . friend and , perhaps , the Select Committee to consider that matter . they might like to provide some advice in response to the consultation as well . I be tempt to invite the Minister to consult the magnificent Taylor Swift who , apart from all her many other talent , have show herself pretty shrewd when it come to preserve the copyright of her material . he put his finger on the key weakness in all this : no matter what sort of regime we set up , and no matter how many country we try to get involve in this , surely it will only take one rogue jurisdiction to allow a machine to scrape from everybody else ' s material ? then , the internet ' s ability for everyone to access it will undermine the regime and , in that way , we face the danger that " shake it off " become " rip it off " . I disagree . I see the right hon . Gentleman nod early when I be talk about not want to pull the rug from under the foot of UK AI adopter . the UK be in a very specific position . we have probably the good copyright law of any country because of the specific way in which they develop . it be partly thank to Hogarth , Dickens and many other over the year that we have end up with strong copyright legislation . we also have a strong body of intellectual property in this country , which be enormously valuable , potentially , to AI operator . we stand in a very specific position . there be an argument that AI can be train elsewhere , in another jurisdiction , but the moment it be bring into the UK , it still fall under UK legislation . the right hon . Gentleman be also right about this . I do not consult Taylor Swift , but I do ask an AI company to come up with a song in the manner of Adele . " oh , I still feel you deep in my soul , even though you leave I out here on my own . the love we have it ' s slip through my hand , but I can ' t forget , I still don ' t understand . you ' re go , but your memory ' s all I see , and in the silence , it ' s you haunt I " — Madam Deputy Speaker . [ Laughter . ] it be sort of Adele , but it be not Adele . do Adele know that her material have be use ? do her record label know that her lyric have be use to create that ? it be sort of in the territory , but it be not right . I think we can get this right in the UK and provide leadership to the world . that be what we should strive for . I will just make the point that I can see that this be very technical and complicated . it might require long answer , but I be not sure it require that level of input from not - Adele . can the Minister clarify the difference between his term " right reservation " and previous report of the Government ' s preference for an opt - out system ? those system have already be call out and consider unjust by our creator . there be AI leader who recognise the need for fair licensing . what assurance can the Government provide to support both human and AI innovation ? do the Minister , with his creative industry hat on , agree that respect copyright would see the introduction of an opt - in system as essential ? again , this be another false dichotomy be present to we between opt in and opt out . that be why we have land on the term " right reservation " . a lot of the material out there be not copyright . that be either because it be long out of copyright — the law for most work last for 70 year after the death of the author or the first publication of the work — or because some artist have categorically decide not to retain their copyright . Tom Lehrer , the author of many satirical song from the 1980 and 1990 , such as " the Vatican Rag " and " the Masochism Tango " , have deliberately surrender his copyright . this be a world where we want to make sure that the vast majority of right holder , whether they be the record label , the individual photographer , the artist or whatever , have the right of control over their copyright — over whether it be use and how it be use — and if it be go to be use , they should be remunerate . I urge my hon . friend , who I know have a great interest in this subject in his role on the Select Committee , to make sure that that false dichotomy between opt in and opt out be abandon . we talk about right reservation , because then , opt out might look remarkably like opt in . in July of this year , it be reveal that 173 , 000 youtube video , include material create by globally recognise british musician , news channel and artist , have be scrape into a dataset use to train AI model . content from over 40 , 000 creative have be find in this dataset , yet I do not believe that consent be seek from a single impact creator to use their copyright work . it be clear that AI offer a fantastic opportunity for our economy , but it must supplement and grow industry rather than replace they wholesale . creative deserve to be compensate for their work . AI company will happily pay the electricity bill for their data centre and wage for their staff , so why should they not also pay to access the creative content on which their model depend ? I completely agree with the hon . Lady . of course those company should pay for the content that they be use . I think she be refer to laion - 5B , which be the dataset that be produce in Germany . interestingly , a court in Hamburg have decide that this be already cover by the exemption for datum and text mining for non - commercial purpose for research . subsequently , though , this have be use not just for research , but for other purpose , which be precisely the kind of area where there be a legal dispute . that be why we be try to provide legal certainty in the UK as to what can and can not be use , when it can be use , and how we can make sure that people ' s creative right be protect . this be an important issue everywhere in the world , but it be particularly important here in the UK because our economy have , as the Minister have say , incredible strength both in the creative industry and , more recently , in AI development . it be important to note that a lot of the technology that power these model be pioneer by DeepMind here in London . do the Minister agree that get the balance right on this be critical to the Government ' s mission of deliver economic growth ? both sector be part of our industrial strategy , and we must make sure that both be able to flourish . I fully understand that there will be people in the creative industry who will be worried about what we be say , but I want they to understand that this package come as a whole . Ed Newton - Rex , who be formerly of Stability AI , write in his Substack today that he be concerned that this Government would proceed without actually check whether a system of right reservation work . we will not . we will proceed only if there be a proper system of right reservation . but there be an awful lot of very clever people who work in AI in this country . I would like somebody to set a bunch of they on work out a simple , practicable , technical solution to the question of right reservation . then , I think , everybody have a chance of prosper in the UK . as a former journalist , I be intimately familiar with the gold standard copyright law that we have in this country . do the Minister agree with the News Media Association , which be very concerned about the current situation face by its member , where thing be already be scrape and take into these AI machine ? to quote the fabulous Sugababes , those member would like the Minister to " push the Button " on the exist law and protect their copyright now . can we have action now , rather than this rather vague and woolly consultation ? well , no . this be a genuinely thorny question that need a technical solution . the Government be not go to write the technical solution . that have to come from the two side work out together how we can get to a situation that benefit everybody . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the newspaper . some newspaper have already license material , include Associated Newspapers , the Washington Post and several other . it would be interesting to see whether the income that those company be receive be flow through to the journalist who produce the copyright material in the first place , but perhaps that be part of the right reservation system that we need to look at as well . the commitment of the Secretaries of State for Culture , Media and Sport and for Science , Innovation and Technology to ensure that creator can control how their content be use and be pay for it be very welcome , but some creator be concerned that the right reservation framework propose by the Government will not allow they to assert control . what step be the Minister take to ensure that a new framework take account of those concern ? I have be try — perhaps I have not yet succeed — to make it absolutely clear that I , the Secretaries of State for Culture , Media and Sport and for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) , who be sit next to I , would not bring forward for legislation something that undermine the copyright right of right holder in the creative industry . we simply would not do so . what we be try to do be push both side to a place where we can create a new system — it will probably be new to the United Kingdom , and might be one of our gift to the world — of right reservation that be simple , practical and practicable . this be not a second reading debate ; it be simply a statement on a consultation . I urge all who have concern to voice they in that consultation . this be a timely statement , because I have be converse with Anne , one of my constituent . Anne be a visual artist and dress designer , and she have exactly the concern that you set out . order . it be the Minister who be set out concern , not I . I beg your pardon , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will recommend to Anne that she contribute to the consultation . however , the Minister hit on the nub of the problem , which be the international element . for I , the key example be China , a country that have a history of steal IP and be a key player in the international AI competition . I wish the Minister well in this work , but how can we thread the needle so that , if the consultation lead to a Bill that get implement , we avoid not only the copyright of our creative be steal by chinese AI firm but hand the AI advantage to China ? I think that China be the problem in lot of different case ; I be not sure that it be in this case . it be more difficult for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for I to get a practicable solution , but that be what we be determined to achieve . when the hon . Gentleman refer to Anne , I think for one moment that she be his AI assistant . the truth be that we will all have AI assistant very soon . Most of the time , when we google anything these day , the first result come up because of AI . it be part of our life , and we can not pretend that away . what I would like be for UK company and start - up to develop AI in a way that accept that the content that many of they be desperate to use need to be pay for . may I convey to the Minister my disappointment that his chatgpt prompt yield the Sugababes and " Football Manager " but not the endure institution of " Gavin and Stacey " from the Vale of Glamorgan ? I know that that be an omission that ChatGPT will correct . this be a critical debate , because the path to prosperity for nation have to be a path through technology . in that context , the primary question on my mind be whether the Minister can set out plan for how datum accuracy and completeness in the creative sector can underpin the Government ' s wide AI action plan , and ultimately drive national growth . my hon . friend make a very good point about " Gavin and Stacey " , and I look forward to the Christmas special . I would merely point out that , since H from Steps be from the Rhondda , Steps have a lot more to offer . he live in the Vale of Glamorgan . well , some people have greatness thrust upon they . my hon . friend make an important point about datum , which will become an increase part of our economic resilience and strength in this country . that be another part of my responsibility , if I have my dsit hat on . I very much look forward to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill come to the Commons in the new year , once it have finish in the other place , because it be an opportunity for we to create smart datum , which will release a great deal more economic potential and productivity in the UK . UK Music describe copyright as the foundation of the music industry , provide a means for creator to monetise their work , an incentive for investment in talent , and an opportunity for we , the public , to enjoy the fruit of creativity . it be important that we get this right , so will the Minister set out how the Government will work with both developer and right holder to make the most of this groundbreaking technology while still protect artist ' work ? no . 1 : I will have endless meeting with an awful lot of people from the creative industry to ensure that all their concern be recognise . I pay tribute to UK Music , which have already be in touch several time in the past 24 hour to express its view on the subject . quite interestingly , copyright work differently in different medium — in music , publishing , newspaper and so on — and that be one of the thing we need to take clear hold of when we take anything far forward . I also have a successful meeting this afternoon with people talk about introduce a voluntary levy on ticket and arena gig to ensure that we have money to support grassroots music in this country , and I very much hope that we will be able to make a significant announcement on that in the new year . I welcome the statement . the Minister refer to Ed Newton - Rex , who recently give evidence to our Select Committee on this very subject . it be clear that creative be deeply worried about any suggestion of an opt - out when it come to the solution . that be why I welcome my hon . friend ' s commitment at the Dispatch Box to make any progress contingent on a technological solution on right reservation because , ultimately , be that not the way to square the circle that this Government be always try to square , which be of economic growth and innovation , while protect worker ’ right ? my hon . friend be 100 % right . square the circle be what we be in the business of do , and sometimes that be not an easy thing for Government , because not all the lever lie with Government and with legislation . to be absolutely clear , though , we know we need to provide legal certainty in this space . that almost certainly mean that we will want to introduce legislation . we will not introduce legislation until such time as all the different aspect that I have already refer to — namely , transparency on input and output , control of right reservation for right holder , and the text and datum mining exemption for commercial work — in that sphere hang together , as all of they be contingent on one another . I think that be the last question , Madam Deputy Speaker , so have yourself a very merry Christmas . you be suppose to sing it ! I don ' t think I be allow to sing at the Dispatch Box . the Minister would be well advise not to sing at the Dispatch Box , but I thank he for his comprehensive response this afternoon . Post Office Redress and Funding with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to provide an update to the House about the Government ' s Post Office redress scheme and funding . no one in this House — no one in this country — will have fail to be move by the plight of postmaster catch up in the Horizon scandal . the fact that they suffer so much over so many year be both unconscionable and inexcusable . the Government be determined to do right by they and to learn from the mistake of the past . that be why , before the election in July , we promise to ensure swift and fair redress for postmaster affect by the Horizon scandal and , in the past five month , we have make significant progress . to date , compensation have more than double since the Government take office , with £ 499 million pay to 3 , 300 victim . of that amount , £ 79 million have be pay to 232 people from the Horizon conviction redress scheme , which we set up in July . as of 29 November , the Ministry of Justice have notify more than 520 people in England and Wales that their conviction have be quash by the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Act 2024 . the relevant justice authority in Scotland and Northern Ireland be also continue to notify individual within their jurisdiction . while the progress we have make be positive , we know there be still complex case to resolve , and we need to speed up other part of the redress process . many postmaster be still yet to be compensate or have their case reconsider . I be conscious that for the victim of the Horizon scandal , justice delay be justice deny , and that our responsibility in Government be to work to make the compensation process as effective as possible . that be why we have ask the Post Office to write to over 16 , 000 former postmaster , encourage they to come forward if they believe they have a genuine claim . I can confirm those letter have be send . we want to ensure that every postmaster who be eligible for redress under the Horizon shortfall scheme have the opportunity to apply for it . on more complex case , notably in the group litigation order and the Horizon conviction redress scheme , for which my department be , and should be see to be , directly responsible , we have agree a new target for 90 % of challenge case in the GLO and HCRS to receive a substantive response within 40 day . we have move in additional staff , and Sir Gary Hickinbottom , who be already assist we with the overturn conviction case , have be appoint chair of the independent panel for the HCRS . we be look again at the argument for provide additional redress to postmaster family member who be affect by the scandal , and to the employee of postmaster . I will report back to the House on that in due course . the Horizon compensation advisory board recommend the establishment of an appeal process for the Horizon shortfall scheme that be independent of the Post Office and Government , and we accept that recommendation in September . we be in the process of assemble a team of independent external lawyer to help deliver the appeal process . we expect that contract to be award in January . I will be able to provide a further update on the appeal process early in the new year . there be still concern about the responsibility of the Post Office to deliver the Horizon shortfall scheme and the overturn conviction scheme . the Government be consider the merit of my Department take over that responsibility , but the benefit of such a move must clearly outweigh the potential disruption . we be carefully consider what intervention we may take . thank to a small group of postmaster and their family come forward this year , as well as to parliamentarian include Lord Beamish , we now know that issue at the Post Office go beyond Horizon , and that some postmaster may have be affect by early system such as Capture . the Government have respond with swift , significant action . the Kroll investigation publish its report into Capture on 30 September , with a further addendum make on 18 October . from that report we have conclude that there be postmaster who may have fall victim to flaw in Capture software . Most of we will not be able to comprehend fully what it be like to be accuse of mistake never make , ill intent never harbour and crime never commit . some postmaster have tell we that , like victim of the Horizon scandal , they be shun by their local community — by their customer , friend and neighbour . I speak on behalf of the whole Government in express how sorry I be for what those postmaster and their family have go through . for that and all they be force to endure , they deserve not just redress but the restoration of their good name . uncover exactly what happen in each case will be a challenging exercise give the passage of time and the lack of record and evidence . however , we be keen to apply the lesson that we have learn from previous redress scheme , and to take account of the need of this group of victim . the Government will develop our proposal through engagement with postmaster and other key stakeholder , such as the Horizon compensation advisory board and legal expert . over the come month , we want to determine the scope of the financial redress and the eligibility criterion , so that we can bring both redress and closure to the impact postmaster and their family . I expect to provide a further update to the House on that matter in the spring . next year , we also expect to receive Sir Wyn Williams ' s report . the Post Office Horizon IT inquiry have review the oral evidence that be submit to it over the course of the last two year . I be thankful to Sir Wyn Williams for his excellent chairing of the inquiry , which close yesterday . I be also thankful to the Horizon compensation advisory board for the report that it publish early this year . in case member be not aware , the board be recommend that a new independent body be set up to deliver any future redress scheme on behalf of the Government , as well as to act in a role similar to that of an ombudsman . the goal be , of course , to reduce the chance of future scandal — or at least to expose they more quickly . the Government welcome those recommendation . any recommendation that might prevent harm , or at least help the government be more responsive to it , be worthy of serious consideration . the potential impact of such a body would be wide range , with potential implication for exist redress scheme in the NHS , which need to be consider alongside other issue . we will therefore take time to consult and consider in particular the view of the Williams inquiry before reach a conclusion . we intend to give a full response within six month of the publication of the Williams inquiry report . for too long , decision about the future of the Post Office have be put off . that neglect have allow significant issue at the heart of the company to grow and take root . as previously set out , we will publish a Green Paper in the first half of next year to seek the public ' s view , insight and experience to help shape the future of the Post Office . in the meantime , we be take step to continue to support the post office network and the important service it provide . I can announce that we be provide a furth £ 37 . 5 million to subsidise the post office network this year . the interim chair of the Post Office , Nigel Railton , be rightly shift the focus of the business from headquarters to postmaster ; the Post Office be also review its cost , as its financial position continue to be challenge . he have announce ambition for a new deal for postmaster , and I be pleased that the Post Office be go to make an immediate one - off payment to postmaster to increase their remuneration , in recognition of the pressure that postmaster face . that payment be expect to be deliver this month . we be work with the senior leadership of the Post Office on future opportunity , begin with banking , so that the company can increase its product offer and commercial revenue and reduce its cost in community across the UK . together , we hope these step will enable the Post Office to move forward , work well with its postmaster and well serve the need of its customer . this government be attempt to fix the foundation , deal with the injustice of the past , and invest in a different future for the Post Office so that it can sit at the heart of our community as a trust institution once more . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . as shadow Secretary of State , I can say on behalf of every conservative Member that we be commit to work collaboratively with the Government to deliver the appropriate redress to all those affect by the Horizon scandal and any issue relate to the Capture software . many of the action on which the Minister have update the House be initiate by my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . as my hon . friend have say , Ministers will have our full support in the swift delivery of redress and the overturning of the conviction of those affect by this wide - range scandal . the conservative party welcome the redress scheme that have be implement to remedy the gross miscarriage of justice that have affect hundred of family across the country . our only focus now must be on process claim to get those scheme complete as quickly as possible . there remain a number of question follow the Minister ' s statement that I would be grateful if he would clarify . I understand that the Kroll report do not publish any conclusion about the safety of criminal conviction . the Horizon advisory group have already recommend that the Government introduce legislation to overturn the conviction of postmaster who fall victim to the Capture scheme . I read that the Government have defer to the Criminal Cases Review Commission on that matter . could the Minister update we on what conversation he have have with the ccrc in relation to the process of overturn conviction ? the redress that the Minister have announce be welcome news , but there remain a lack of specific detail on how the affected party can expect progress . will he set out a timeline for the redress of postmaster affect by Capture ? he say that he have instruct the Post Office to write to 16 , 000 potentially affect former postmaster , urge they to come forward if they believe they have a claim to make , and that those letter have be send . can he confirm when they be send ? be the Minister able to provide an update on his conversation with Fujitsu ? how much have Fujitsu contribute to date ? what meeting have he have , and where be we on that important aspect of this process ? it be concern to learn back in September that only a small handful of claim have be offer redress through the Horizon conviction redress scheme and , at that point , no full and final settlement have be make through that scheme . could the Minister reassure the House that the Government be not just open the door to those claim , but manage the process of get they hear , resolve , and ultimately redress ? I be pleased to hear that additional staff have be second to facilitate the compensation scheme — I welcome that and thank the Minister — but can he confirm how many have be second and from where , and can he give the House an assurance that they will remain seconded for as long as be necessary ? finally , we welcome the Government ' s announcement of £ 37 . 5 million of network subsidy . it be announce in yesterday ' s write ministerial statement , and it be indeed welcome news . the Minister say that it be for this year , so would he clarify whether that relate to the period up until the end of March 2025 ? what certainty be there of funding beyond that period so that we can all proceed on a sustainable footing ? be it only for this year , or do it also cover the fiscal year 2025 - 26 ? I be grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for his willingness to work with we collaboratively on provide redress not only to the victim of the Horizon scandal , but to the victim of the Capture software issue . the shadow Secretary of State reference the Kroll report . as he and , I suspect , other member of the House who have follow this issue closely will be aware , Kroll do not take a specific view on conviction . we be aware that a small number of sub - postmaster — those who believe they be victim of use the Capture software , give the shortfall it generate and the way they be treat by the Post Office as a result — have refer their claim to the Criminal Cases Review Commission . we have instruct the Post Office to work at speed to review what evidence it can provide to the ccrc to help it make decision on the safety of those conviction . similarly , the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission be look at a number of case , and we have similarly instruct the Post Office to co - operate with it as quickly as it can . on Capture redress , yesterday we meet sub - postmaster who have campaign on Capture , and indeed Lord Beamish , to update they on the step we will take . we will work at pace . as I say in my statement , we face a significant challenge with the amount of evidence available . for example , no central record have as yet be find of the number of Capture user or of who they be . we be nevertheless go to be work to design a redress scheme . we will consult sub - postmaster and the Horizon compensation advisory board . as I have say , I will bring forward an update on where we have get to by next spring . on the 16 , 000 letter that the Post Office have send out , I can confirm that they have go out very recently — the shadow Secretary of State will forgive I if I do not have the exact date . he rightly air again the concern about the responsibility of Fujitsu , which be feel across the House . I be sure that he will recognise that we need to wait for Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry to report , to give we a well understanding of the scale of Fujitsu ' s responsibility and , therefore , its potential liability . we have say that we will respond to the inquiry ' s recommendation at pace , and certainly within six month . I be sure that he will opine on Fujitsu , and we will respond accordingly . on the Horizon conviction redress scheme , the then Minister of State at the Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) , and I have the pleasure of appear before the Business and Trade Committee , chair by my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , to update it on progress in overturn the conviction follow the legislation last summer . she commit the Ministry to complete its work of assess the case by the end of January , and I understand that it still intend to do so . we have already pay out some £ 79 million as part of our responsibility to provide redress to those whose conviction be overturn . lastly , on the network subsidy uplift , the shadow Secretary of State will understand that the money be just for this year . spend review discussion be take place across Government , and the Post Office be an active part of those discussion . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I welcome much of the Minister ' s statement today . redress be be pay out fast , but the truth be that 70 % of the budget for redress have still not be pay . the Select Committee will be supply its advice on how we make that fast in a report that we will release on new year ' s day . the Minister have set out detail for the House about the Capture victim who have be identify . do he believe that many of those victim be convict ? if they be , would it not be right to have those conviction automatically overturn , in the way that we have do for other victim of this appalling scandal ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend that the first report of his Committee have look at the Post Office redress scheme . he will know that progress have be make , but as I allude to in my opening statement , we recognise that there be still significantly more to do , particularly with the complex case . specifically on conviction and capture , I have to tell the House that at this stage we do not know how many people be convict as a result of the Capture software . we be aware of a small number of case . as I have say , a number of case be with the Criminal Cases Review Commission and the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission . we have instruct the Post Office to review all its record — we know it have some record available for the 1991 to 1999 period — and to get what information it do have to those two body , so that they can opine as quickly as be feasible on the safety of those conviction . it be right that that be the first step we take . we will wait to see the judgment . in the meantime , we will get on with design a redress scheme for all those who be not convict but who suffer as a result of the Capture software . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for share his statement in advance . honest , hard - work people have their life totally wreck by this scandal , and it be a great shame that it happen over a number of year , and that there be dither and delay over it for far too many year . I welcome the step that he have outline this afternoon . I welcome the suggestion make to he about an independent body for compensation . however , this scandal must never happen again . one way this Chamber could ensure that be the case be by have a duty of candour on official , as the Liberal Democrats have call for . I hope he will give that serious consideration , to stop such a scandal ever happen again . finally , there be a real opportunity , should the Government choose to take it , to set up an office for whistleblower through the Employment Rights Bill , which be currently make its way through the House . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his opening remark . in particular , I share his anger , and that of the whole House , at how sub - postmaster be treat , whether as victim of the Horizon scandal or of the Capture software issue , which be clearly appalling . we must do everything we can to ensure that can never be repeat . he will understand that yesterday be the last day of hearing in Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry . Sir Wyn Williams have say that he will publish his conclusion and recommendation within month . the Government will then work at pace to consider his recommendation and to publish our response within six month of that date . the specific idea that the hon . Gentleman have reference in that context will , I be sure , be part of the Government ' s deliberation . he will forgive I if I wait at this stage for Sir Wyn Williams ' s recommendation . we will then look at those recommendation and come to the House with the future step we intend to take . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement on the Green Paper on the future of the Post Office . it be also welcome that the Government be take additional step towards financial redress for the postmaster who suffer such horrendous treatment in that scandal . I be concerned that this new deal for postmaster come at the expense of post office branch across the country , include at Kennington Park in my constituency . do he agree that there should not be a choice between give postmaster a fair deal and lose essential high street service ? will he please meet I to discuss that far ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend . I recognise that post office be a fundamental part of every one of our community in the UK . that be one of the reason why the Government have be clear that we adhere to and support the commitment on various access requirement to ensure that every community have good access to post office facility . on directly manage branch , she will know that no decision on the future of all those branch , or indeed any individual branch , have be take . I recognise that she have particular concern about the branch in Kennington , and I be happy to meet she to discuss that . I be glad that the Minister choose to reference the excellent work do on behalf of the postmaster by Lord Beamish , who be well know to many of we as our former colleague Kevan Jones . I hope that the whole House will join I in congratulate he on his appointment today as the new Chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee — an appointment , by the way , by his fellow Committee member , which be exactly as it should be do . may I gently ask the Minister — this may go slightly outwith his Department ' s responsibility — whether there be any news or progress about the question of prosecution for criminal conspiracy ? that be something I have raise before . that be one thing that might act as a deterrent to this sort of terrible behaviour by a gild , self - select class of people who think that their institutional importance be great than truth or justice . I be certainly happy to echo the right hon . member ' s congratulation to the noble Lord Beamish and to emphasise again my appreciation for his work on champion the concern of those who be victim of the Capture software . he be one of those whom we will continue to work with go forward as we put together redress and think about these issue more generally . specifically on prosecution , the right hon . member may be aware that the Metropolitan police have confirm that it have establish a unit and be look at a number of issue to do with how the Post Office operate . he will understand that , quite rightly , Ministers be not involve in those decision , but the information that I have set out be publicly available . we will obviously all have to wait to see what happen in that regard . my hon . Friend rightly say that there be an urgent need to speed up the redress process . what we know be that while £ 500 million have be pay out in claim , £ 267 million have be spend on lawyer . Nigel Railton tell we that between 80 % and 85 % of all claim be simple case , so do my hon . friend agree that there be a real opportunity to automate the process so that we handle claim far more quickly ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . specifically on what further action we can take to speed up the process , one of the reason why we introduce a fix - sum payment of £ 75 , 000 for those whose claim have be accept as part of the Horizon shortfall scheme be deliberately to offer an option of fast redress for victim . on the question of automation , we encourage Nigel Railton and the senior leadership at the Post Office to look at what further step they can take to speed up the consideration of claim under the Horizon shortfall scheme , where there be particular pressure give the number that be still come forward . I welcome the fact that they be come forward , but we need fast action to get through they and to support all those whose claim be be accept to get redress under the Horizon shortfall scheme . recently I meet a couple of constituent — Tony Hibberd , a former sub - postmaster , and Colin Chesterton , a solicitor who be represent he pro bono . during our meeting , they raise concern about the delay and inadequacy of the Horizon shortfall scheme . my constituent have wait in excess of four year since his claim application and 14 year since he be force to lose his livelihood . what percentage of the claimant to the Horizon shortfall scheme have receive an interim payment , and what percentage have have their request settle in full ? if the hon . Gentleman write to I with the detail of that case , I will happily look at where it be at . the Horizon shortfall scheme have be run by the Post Office for some time . initially , it be close and then it be reopen under pressure . all those who come forward in the initial tranche of claim have have they assess and offer have be make . the majority of the compensation that be offer have be pay out . when the scheme be reopen , there be a substantial increase in the number of people apply for redress . indeed , we be still see people come forward now and we would expect , as a result of all the letter that we have ask the Post Office to send out to sub - postmaster who might have a claim , that there will be far substantial claim under the Horizon shortfall scheme . with the Post Office , we be look at what more we can do to speed up the assessment of those claim . the fix sum payment that we announce in September of some £ 75 , 000 , which sub - postmaster can choose to accept in full and final settlement of their claim , have be welcome and accept by a significant number of sub - postmaster . that be help to speed up redress under the Horizon shortfall scheme . I accept that there be more to do , and we be look at what else we can do in that regard . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement and the fact that he be put more resource and manpower into process people ' s claim . but I wonder where the complexity of these claim be come from . be we ask for too much information from people in the first place ? I watch the evidence of Sir Alan Bates at the Business and Trade Committee , and I have read some of the case in the news . in one case , a person with breast cancer have their compensation reduce and I think , hang on a minute , this may be go too far and be a bit churlish . just how much information be be go through in order to process these case ? I wonder if we may want to go back and look at that . I have speak to the Minister about this , and I know that he want to speed the process up as much as possible . be it possible that we could streamline the process ? I have look at this issue , which come up at the Select Committee . we write out to ask for further information in order to be able to justify the payment of more compensation , not to query the information that have be provide by sub - postmaster to date . to try to provide reassurance on that point , we be make that explicit in the letter that we send out to sub - postmaster . we be anxious to reduce the stress and concern and , essentially , the trauma that people have go through already . we do not want that process to be repeat , if at all possible , during the compensation process . ask for more information be design to enable we to offer more and fair compensation to the individual concern . I be listen in detail about the process you be go through look for more information on Horizon . you have mention Capture , which go back to 1992 — 30 year ago . you have mention a lack of information and that you be look for more detail — order . three time , " you " — it need to be " he " or " the Minister " , please . bad habit — must get rid of they . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be concerned about the Capture system , which be more than 30 year old and have 19 different version . we do not know who use it , and we do not know who have be convict for it . the people who have be convict be probably die every other week just now . the Minister talk about work at pace , but can he make a fly sprint to get to those people urgently , to ensure that investigation be carry out and that compensation deserve be duly receive ? the hon . Gentleman make a perfectly reasonable point — it be something I feel acutely . I have meet a number of the sub - postmaster who use the Capture software and be treat very badly as a result by the Post Office , so I be acutely conscious of our collective responsibility to those individual and their family . some of the sub - postmaster who use Capture software have already pass away , which only underline the point he and I have make . I can assure the House that we will work at pace . we be work with the Post Office , and have ask the organisation to go through its record so that we can identify , inasmuch as we can , how many people be potentially victim of Capture . we be also support the work of the Criminal Cases Review Commission in look at whether conviction be safe . the devastating case of Susan Cain , the mother of my constituent Zoe Stokes , highlight the profound human cost of this scandal . Susan , who run the post office in Hampton in Arden , be falsely accuse of theft , and force to sell her business and home in order to repay £ 25 , 000 to avoid prison . tragically , she later die from emphysema , which medical evidence link to the immense stress that be cause by these false allegation . despite her exoneration , her family have be offer just 40 % of their claim , with the Post Office refuse to accept responsibility for her illness . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the compensation programme for family like Zoe ' s be fair and transparent , and fully account for the harm cause by this scandal ? I commend my hon . friend for champion the cause of the family of a sub - postmaster in his constituency . he will forgive I if I do not know the exact compensation scheme that his constituent apply to . however , in general , independent element be build into each of the compensation scheme to try to ensure that as fair a sum of redress as possible be offer . on the Horizon shortfall scheme in particular , in September we commit to set up an independent appeal process , and I hope to have more information for the House early next year . we be determined to establish that process to provide a far independent element for that particular scheme . my constituent Donna be one of the 555 . she be audit through Horizon , which find a loss of £ 186 , 000 . an employee admit fraud and be later imprison , but Donna be make bankrupt for the loss — for not just £ 186 , 000 , but £ 250 , 000 , which , of course , she could not pay . it be never challenge ; we do not know whether the real amount be £ 180 , 000 or £ 180 . she be award an interim payment , most of which be take by the receiver . now , the amount the receiver take have be take from the final £ 75 , 000 fix amount , and she have only be offer £ 20 , 000 , despite lose everything . will the Minister personally look at Donna ' s case and ensure she get proper redress for this obvious miscarriage of justice ? I would be very happy to receive further information from the hon . Lady , and I will endeavour to reply to she as quickly as I can . I recognise that there be concern about the fairness of the compensation process . there be complex case that be still to be settle . we be work at pace to ensure , where we can , that those case be settle , particularly with regard to the GLO scheme . we have make it clear that for all the remain case that be with we by Christmas , we will be able to get substantial redress pay out to those individual by the end of March . as I say , if she write to I I will happily look at her letter . it be know as the Horizon scandal , but the real scandal be not the failing of software but the action and deed of individual and institution , as Sir Alan Bates say . in that light , I would include the misuse and potential abuse of private prosecution . will the Government commit to act on that ? yes . my hon . friend raise a very good point . the Ministry of Justice have make clear its concern about this issue and be set to bring forward a consultation document early in the new year , I believe , to address exactly that concern . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , but do he recognise the frustration that many , many sub - postmaster still experience ? we put legislation through this place month ago on the quashing of conviction . the compensation scheme have be in place for many year now , yet well over half of the individual still have not have their case deal with . I meet some of they when they come over for the inquiry a few week ago , and there be real fear among they that the Post Office be still in denial and be therefore still reluctant to proceed with these claim . two people give I example . one have be ask for information that he do not have because the Post Office seize all the information . for the other , the delay be cause because she meticulously keep record and now the Post Office say it have so many record to go through that it will take some time . do the Minister understand why many people feel that , despite the decision of this House and the commitment of Ministers , there be still reluctance on the part of the Post Office to deal fairly with these people ? I understand completely the frustration of sub - postmaster who have wait so long to get redress and have their case hear . the right hon . Gentleman will understand that there be four Horizon scandal compensation scheme . in the case of the conviction that be overturn by this House this year , the fourth compensation scheme , the Horizon conviction redress scheme , be set up on 30 July and have begin pay out significant sum of money to sub - postmaster who have have their conviction overturn — some £ 79 million , as of the end of November . as I say early , the MOJ have seek to contact all individual who have their conviction overturn as a result of that legislation . it have say that it will complete its work by the end of January and I understand that it be on course to do so , but I be acutely aware of the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . it be why we continue to look , as much as we can , at what further effort we can take to speed the delivery of compensation . last but by no mean least , I call Emma Foody . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his commitment to provide redress as soon as possible . one of my constituent , a former sub - postmaster who wish to remain anonymous , attend a surgery recently to share their experience . accuse of steal over £ 40 , 000 due to the Horizon system , they lose their home , their job and their business , and be force to pay thousand from their and their family ' s saving . compound the financial loss be the reputational loss : ostracise by the community , experience racial abuse and force to move away — appal in its own right but , as we have hear today , just one of many , many example . do the Minister agree that any redress must address not just the financial loss , but the further damage do to people ' s live as a result of the action of the Post Office ? I be sure I speak for the whole House when I say that I wish the experience that my hon . friend have describe be just an isolated example , but sadly there have be far too many similar example of what sub - postmaster have be through . we absolutely must get more speed into the compensation process , and we be very much work on that , but we will also look carefully at the recommendation of the Sir Wyn Williams inquiry when they be publish next year . his work will be crucial in help to ensure that nothing like this ever happen again . Bill present Public Procurement ( british Goods and Services ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Champion present a Bill to make provision about public procurement in respect of british good and service ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 153 ) . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance on behalf of the independent alliance MPs in relation to our correspondence with Ministers . we have write to the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary on numerous occasion without receive a reply . on 5 August , we write to the Home Secretary ask for a meeting follow the far - right riot . we have yet to receive a response . on 25 October , we write to the Chancellor ask she to abolish the two - child benefit cap and to reverse the cut in the winter fuel allowance . we receive a hold reply which read " we have receive your submission to the Autumn Budget process " , but no further reply have be receive . on 18 November , we write to the Prime Minister ask he what legal advice he have receive on the definition of genocide in relation to the situation in Gaza , and what action he be take to prevent genocide . we have not receive a response . on 18 November , we also write to the Attorney General ask he what legal advice he have offer the Prime Minister on the definition of genocide in relation to the situation in Gaza . we have not receive a response to that either . on 21 November , we write to the Prime Minister ask he if the Government would enforce the arrest warrant from the International Criminal Court , and what action he be take to prevent genocide . again , we have not receive a response . we write those letter on behalf of our constituent , and they deserve answer to our question . could you please advise we , Madam Deputy Speaker , on the good way to secure a reply to our letter , and to ensure that Ministers reply to letter that we may write in the future ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . he have put his concern on the record , and I be sure that those on the Government Front Bench have be listen to they carefully . if he and his right hon . and hon . friend have not do so already , I recommend that they make contact with the private office of the Ministers concerned . if that do not lead to prompt reply , a number of option be open to they , include table question , both write and oral , and seek an Adjournment debate . I suggest that the Table Office could be very helpful in give they further idea as to how they can well hold Ministers to account . office of the Whistleblower Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to establish an independent Office of the Whistleblower to protect whistleblower and whistleblowing ; to make provision for the Office of the Whistleblower to set , monitor and enforce standard for the management of whistleblowe case , to provide disclosure and advice service , to direct whistleblowing investigation and to order redress of detriment suffer by whistleblower ; and for connected purpose . so it be quite a small Bill . if I may , I shall start with a couple of thank yous . all too often , be a whistleblower be a thankless task . whistleblower risk so much : their personal standing , their reputation , and their home . I think that this ten - minute rule motion , come so soon after the statement that we hear from my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , highlight the importance of those who be willing to speak up and draw attention to wrongdoing when they see it . I should like — on behalf of the House , if it will indulge I — to thank those people who have the bravery to stand up , say that there be wrongdoing , and put themselves at risk . I also want to pay a short tribute to my immediate predecessor in this place , Jo Gideon , who now serve as the chairperson of WhistleblowersUK . she do a lot in this House to progress the issue , and it be a testament to she that progress be make in the last Parliament . I hope that we can continue it in this place . I be grateful to the Government for the work that they have be do on improve current arrangement for whistleblowing . the duty of candour Bill , which will place on our public servant the requirement to speak out and tell the truth when an investigation be happen , be an important part of shine a light on some of the dark recess of our public sector when thing go wrong . I be also grateful to the Government for recognise that whistleblowing can be important for tackle sexual harassment , and for the work that they be do on the Employment Rights Bill . the whole purpose of whistleblowing be to try to prevent thing from happen in the first place . all too often we end up in circumstance and situation in which something terrible happen , and somebody stand up and give evidence about what have happen . as we have hear over many hour of debate in this place , it then cost an awful lot of money to redress the wrongdoing that have happen . in such circumstance , not have in place an effective and efficient whistleblowing system that be available to anybody who see wrongdoing cost taxpayer a huge amount of money . the current framework for whistleblowe in this country be very much look at through the lens of employment law . technically , someone be consider a whistleblower only if they be employ by , and have a contractual relationship with , the organisation about which they be make a disclosure . that mean that the remedy and redress that be available to the whistleblower normally end up in an employment tribunal , which look at the occupational and work - relate loss that the individual have suffer , and not necessarily at some of the social and reputational damage that they suffer as a result of be the person who stand up and speak out . we all know that stand up and speak out be so important , because it be instill in new Members of Parliament when we arrive here . we be tell that if we see wrongdoing , we have a duty to say something . anyone who travel on train will hear the slogan , " see it . say it . sort . " if people see wrongdoing in life , however , say something about it be often a risk too far . they might make a disclosure about their workplace , and suddenly they will be put on gardening leave . they find themselves in a situation in which they be label as the troublemaker in the organisation . then they end up down the employment tribunal route , and the issue do not necessarily get deal with . one aspect of my Bill that I hope the Government will consider take forward — if not through this Bill , then perhaps by bring forward other Bills — be the propose office of the whistleblower , which be support by my party in opposition and in amendment table to the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 . such an office have be talk about in this House ; the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , who be no long in his place , say in a previous debate that it would have help we to prevent some of the scandal that we have see in this country . the propose office of the whistleblower would provide a genuine levelling effect for people who stand up and say the right thing , and who then suddenly find themselves oppose by the legal and financial resource of huge company that seek to discredit they , isolate they and put they in a position in which their reputation and home life struggle . with an office of the whistleblower , we could remove the David versus Goliath situation and genuinely ensure that speak up and do the right thing count . I would hope that the propose office of the whistleblower would be a designate body to which people can report when they have make a disclosure . currently , 88 different regulatory body can take a whistleblowing declaration . in fact , member of Parliament be prescribe people : whistleblower can make a declaration to we without necessarily incur a penalty . very few of we know that , and very few of we be able to progress a disclosure to the next stage . the propose office of the whistleblower would be require to collate datum on where whistleblowing declaration be be make from public body and other organisation . crucially , that would tell we where there be a problem . I be sure that even today there will be employee in the NHS , the civil service , other public sector organisation and the private sector who make a disclosure to a manager , while yesterday somebody else make a disclosure to a different manager about the same problem . but no one be collate that datum to say , " actually , this be a problem in a particular sector ; we should probably look at this and take some action now and prevent a genuine wrongdoing , malpractice , malfeasance or even death from occur . " our current whistleblowing arrangement be far too reactive . they rely on somebody stand up and speak out , and they rely on that person take a risk after an event have happen . it become almost a situation of say , " here be the evidence to correct the wrongdoing that have occur . " we need to change whistleblowe culture in our country so that when something be happen and we see it or somebody else see it , they feel compel and also support to make that declaration . that be very important because quite often the people who be do the wrongdoing in the first place — the people who be undertake malpractice , malfeasance or corruption — do it because they think they can get away with it . they do it because they think nobody be watch . they do it because they think the risk be less than the reward they can personally derive from a cover - up , fraud or any form of non - criminal activity . by make it clear that we now empower individual — citizen of the country — to stand up and make a declaration , and be protect and support in do so , those who want to do wrong will think again . that will prevent our have to spend million of pound on redress — money that we can put to well use in this country . I hope that this short Bill , although it have a long title , will go some way to rebalancing power in this country by allow those brave soul — who often take on the mighty giant — the opportunity and the support they need to do the right thing , know we have get their back . question put and agree to . order , that Gareth Snell , Liam Byrne , Robin Swann , Richard Foord , Sarah Champion , Mr Jonathan Brash , Tonia Antoniazzi , Dr Allison Gardner , Mr Alex Barros - Curtis , Jim Shannon , Jodie Gosling , Will Stone and Anna Dixon present the Bill . Gareth Snell accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 152 ) . Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( extension ) Bill [ Lords ] consider in Committee [ Caroline Nokes in the Chair ] clause 1 - Amendment of Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider clause 2 stand part . I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as Madam Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . " Madam Chair " , " Chair " and " Madam Chairman " be also acceptable . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairship , Madam Chair . as I say on Second Reading , this be a straightforward Bill with only one substantive clause and a singular aim : to extend by five year the provision agree by this House in the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 . it will mean that vacancy among the Lords Spiritual continue to be fill by the most senior eligible female bishop , if there be one in post , in preference to the most senior male bishop . the Government introduce the Bill at the request of the Church of England , as be the case in 2015 . as we witness on Second Reading last month , the Bill have widespread cross - party support , and I be pleased that the spirit of co - operation have continue . I note that no amendment have be table to frustrate , challenge or change the aim of the Bill . the purpose of clause 1 be to extend , by an additional five year , the arrangement make by the 2015 Act . without this clause , the arrangement would cease to have effect on 17 May 2025 . the Bill have be introduce to extend the provision until 18 May 2030 . clause 2 set out the commencement and short title of the Bill . and there we be . it be clear that this Bill command broad consensus , and I be grateful to colleague for their approach to this legislation . I very much look forward to the rest of today ' s debate , and to see the Bill on the statute book soon . it be a privilege to speak again on this Bill . as the Minister outline , by extend the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 by five year , this Bill do exactly what it say on the tin . it be very quick and straightforward . I note that the Church of England introduce its own legislation in 2014 to allow for the ordination of woman bishop , and this Bill stem from that . the 2015 Act be introduce by the last government , and we look forward to see its quick progress today . overall , the 2015 Act have be successful in ensure that woman have a fair chance of sit alongside their male counterpart in the other place as one of the Lords Spiritual . five of the six woman bishop be appoint under the Act ' s provision , show that we have progress since then . when further bishop retire , the Bill will give more opportunity for even more woman to progress , depend on the situation in each eligible diocese . I think it be good for our Parliament to continue push this forward . do the Minister foresee another five - year extension ? when the measure be first introduce , it be to last for 10 year . how many appointment do she feel be need before the 2015 Act become redundant in and of itself ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment . he ask whether the Government foresee extend the Act past these five year , and we will review the situation at that time . as the opposition know , we be honour what the Church of England have ask we to do . since the 2015 Act receive Royal Assent , we have see six female bishop take their seat early than they otherwise would have do . we will have to review the situation and see what happen with this five - year extension . as be outline on Second reading , we will shortly see the value of this legislation again , when we welcome Debbie Sellin , the Bishop of Peterborough , to the Lords Spiritual . we can already see and feel the benefit of the 2015 Act , and we believe that this extension will be positive . we look forward to see what come out of it . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . Bill , not amend in the Committee , consider . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I will say , first of all , what a remarkably efficient Committee stage that be . in that tradition , which have now be set , I will keep my remark brief . the Bill will continue the positive effect see from the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 for a further five year . the 2015 Act follow the very welcome decision make the year before by the Church of England to allow woman to be ordain as bishop , and the legislation pass the following year begin to allow ordained woman bishop to enter the other place as Lords Spiritual early than would otherwise have be the case . I want to take the opportunity to thank all the official who have work on the Bill for their support to I and to the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) , as well as to my right hon . friend , the Leader of the House of Lords . I thank all those who speak on Second Reading and today : my hon . friend the Members for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) and Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , as well as the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) and the shadow Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , who show that wonderful talent today of be succinct in the passage of the Bill . in all seriousness , I wish to put on the record my thank for the spirit in which the official Opposition have approach the Bill . we be grateful for that . finally , I give particular thank to my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) in her position as the Second Church Estates Commissioner . during the passage of the 2015 Act , the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , describe the legislation as " unopposable " . I be pleased to say that nearly a decade later , that sentiment continue to ring true . I commend the Bill to the House . I thank the Paymaster General for the spirit in which he have speak today , as well as the entire Bill team behind this . we should let matter rest there and let the Bill proceed as quickly as possible . I and my liberal Democrat colleague be supportive of the extension of this legislation and its ambition to make our second Chamber a more equal and representative place . I be glad to see the legislation move so swiftly through Parliament and I plan to play my part in that . we be glad of the intention of the Bill to address the stark gender imbalance that exist among our Lords Spiritual . we be supportive of that aim and welcome step to ensure that Parliament well reflect the country it serve . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass , without amendment . Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill consider in Committee [ Caroline Nokes in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee , they should not address the Chair as Madam Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . " Madam Chair " , " Chair " and " Madam Chairman " be also acceptable . clause 1 Provision of Loans or other Financial Assistance to Ukraine Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider : clause 2 stand part . new clause 1 — report on loan or other financial assistance to Ukraine — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must — ( a ) prepare report on the operation of assistance provide in accordance with section 1 ( a ) , ( b ) lie a copy of each report before Parliament . ( 2 ) each report must provide detail of the amount of — ( a ) monie provide by the United Kingdom to Ukraine under section 1 ; ( b ) the United Kingdom ' s share of the principal loan amount and interest accrue under the scheme ; and ( c ) receipt of extraordinary profit from the russian immobilised sovereign asset under the scheme . ( 3 ) each report must also provide a summary of discussion between his Majesty ' s Government and other G7 government about discussion on any subsequent arrangement that be supplemental to or modify or replace the arrangement refer to in section 1 ( a ) , include any discussion concern — ( a ) the range of russian asset to which the arrangement might apply , and ( b ) the use of those asset . ( 4 ) the first report must be lay within the period of 6 month of the passing of this Act . ( 5 ) each subsequent report must be lay within the period of 6 month begin with the day on which the previous report be lay . ( 6 ) the duty under subsection ( 1 ) cease to have effect 12 month after the arrangement refer to in section 1 ( a ) or any subsequent arrangement of the kind refer to in section 1 ( b ) cease to operate . " this new clause establish an annual reporting requirement relate to the UK share of loan to Ukraine and receipt from the extraordinary profit from the freezing of russian state asset and to any G7 discussion to extend the arrangement . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship today , Madam Chair . we have a very constructive debate on Second reading of the Bill . in particular , I wish to express my appreciation for the universal support that the House have show for the provision of this vital funding . it be clearly a subject close to the heart of many of we across the House . I look forward to further discussion on this important Bill today . as the Committee be aware , the extraordinary revenue acceleration be an ambitious scheme design to provide Ukraine with a total of $ 50 billion in additional support , to be repay by the extraordinary profit generate on russian sovereign asset hold in the European Union . the United Kingdom ' s contribution of £ 2 . 26 billion be join by pledge from the United States , the European Union , Canada and Japan . the Bill contain only two clause . they be both straightforward . clause 1 grant the Government the legal spending authority to fulfil the commitment we have make to provide Ukraine with the UK ' s contribution to the extraordinary revenue acceleration . the clause empower the Treasury or the Secretary of State to provide the Government of Ukraine with fund approve by Parliament as a result of the extraordinary revenue acceleration loan for Ukraine scheme , or " any subsequent arrangement that be supplemental to or modify or replace those arrangement . " payment make under clause 1 will be those that be necessary to perform the UK ' s commitment to the ERA scheme . in of course welcome the Government ' s measure , I note that the Minister refer to the extraordinary interest from the frozen russian asset . have the Government permanently set their mind against any possible actual seizure of the asset themselves , perhaps in agreement with other G7 member or EU member ? I thank the right hon . member for his contribution . as we debate on Second Reading , this be a commitment across G7 partner and with the European Union to take action on the proceed of the asset that be hold . for other complicated legal reason , there be no intention to seize those asset at this time . I thank the Minister for his acknowledgement of the cross - party support for this measure , but to back up my colleague , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , the $ 3 billion from the UK be generous and will make a difference , but the $ 300 billion in frozen asset would be utterly game change . I accept the Minister ' s argument at the moment about some of the more complicated legal issue . I know that he accept the very serious situation that the Ukrainians be face on the front , defend all of we . may I encourage he merely to continue to look at this issue and see whether he can work with G7 colleague to find a way of unpick the difficulty that he have highlight ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s encouragement , which I take in good faith . he will know that these matter be multilateral and subject to negotiation with other ally and G7 colleague , but he will also know , as I be sure the whole House do , that we go into 2025 with a strength of resolve across those G7 country to do all that we can to help Ukraine continue to mount its defence against the illegal invasion from Russia . any other payment beyond the extraordinary revenue acceleration loan to Ukraine or any other country that be unrelated to the ERA scheme be not cover by the provision of the Bill ; this money be in addition to other grant and payment that have be refer to in the House previously . the clause contain provision for the UK to provide funding towards subsequent arrangement that be supplemental to , modify or replace the ERA . this provision allow for flexibility in the unlikely event that the scheme itself should significantly alter . it be not intend to be use without this change in circumstance . clause 2 simply set out the short title of the Bill . I thank the Minister for open the debate . the Conservative Government be a vociferous advocate for mobilise Russia ' s frozen sovereign asset to support Ukraine . we drive G7 and european partner to try to coalesce around the most ambitious solution possible to achieve that outcome . the announcement on 22 October mark progress on that journey and be a step in the right direction . we understand that the Government ' s position be that the United Kingdom ' s contribution should be earmark for support Ukraine ' s military expenditure , include on air defence , artillery and other equipment . the opposition would support that . we need to persevere with our effort to put Ukraine in the strong possible position to counter Russia ' s unprovoked and illegal invasion . matter since Second reading have be fast move , so let I pose some question to the Minister . since Second Reading , the United States have give Ukraine $ 20 billion , fund by the profit of frozen russian asset . that economic support form a significant part of the overall $ 50 billion package agree by G7 member nation and announce in June . the US Treasury say that it have transfer the $ 20 billion to a World Bank fund , where it will be available for Ukraine to draw . money handle by the World Bank can not be use for military purpose . the US Administration have initially hope to dedicate half the money to military aid , but that would have require approval from Congress , which the President do not seek . perhaps the Minister can update the House on what discussion the UK Government have have with the US Administration , Canada and the European Union about the use of fund provide for military purpose . be any string attach to the fund that will be provide by the UK ? as the US have already provide its share of money anticipate in the G7 package , can the Minister advise the House on the timing of the UK ' s contribution ? I think it be make clear on Second Reading , but it would be helpful to have an update , give the move by the US since then . as the Minister and the Government have advise , the loan that the UK will pay will form part of the extraordinary revenue acceleration loan agreement by the G7 . the loan that the UK will provide will be repay by the Ukraine loan co - operation mechanism , establish by the European Union under regulation 2024 / 2773 on 24 October . the ability of the UK to have its loan repay depend in large part on a decision by the European Union to maintain its freeze on russian asset . the EU renew russian sanction every six month , and effort to extend that to a three - year review cycle be rebuff by Hungary early this year . will the Minister confirm that there be a risk , in the event that the EU do not extend its sanction on Russia , that the cost of the loan will be bear by UK taxpayer , and what mitigation he might consider if that situation arise ? finally , the EU control more than two third of Russia ' s $ 300 billion of sovereign asset that have be freeze by western ally follow Russia ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine . of those EU - hold frozen asset , 90 % be hold by the Belgian - base financial service company Euroclear . the profit from the EU - hold asset , estimate to be between $ 2 . 6 billion and $ 3 . 2 billion per year , have be use to arm Ukraine and finance its post - war reconstruction . we understand that the EU ' s top diplomat , Kaja Kallas , say in an interview with the Guardian on 12 December that the European Union should use the billion in frozen state asset to aid Ukraine . she emphasise that Ukraine have a legitimate claim for compensation , and describe the russian asset hold in the EU as " a tool to pressure Russia . " the Minister respond to early intervention , but can he confirm the UK Government ' s position ? have he discuss the matter with the EU and Belgium , and do he have any plan for the UK to go far on the use of those asset ? I want to speak to new clause 1 , which I have sign , but I first want to reiterate my support for the Government and the Bill . as I say on Second Reading , it be absolutely right and proper that Russia pay for the damage it have do to Ukraine and its people . the Bill be an important first step in provide that financial assistance from russian asset to Ukraine . echo the comment from around the Chamber , we need to move with ally towards a position of seize russian asset , but it be a positive first step that we be use the proceed of the interest on those asset to support Ukraine . on Second Reading , I mention that " Canada have pass the Special Economic Measures ( Russia ) Regulations , which collect datum on russian asset , freeze they and publish the value , which currently stand at 135 billion canadian dollar " . — [ Official Report , 20 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 312 . ] I ask if the Government could disclose russian asset hold in the UK in the same way . new clause 1 go a long way to provide that . it would ask the Government to lay a copy of a report before Parliament show under the Act , as it will hopefully become , " monie provide by the United Kingdom to Ukraine " to the following level of disclosure : " the United Kingdom ' s share of the principal loan amount and interest accrue under the scheme " and " receipt of extraordinary profit from the russian immobilised sovereign asset under the scheme . " it would to an extent mirror what our close ally Canada have do . although I do not expect to divide on new clause 1 , I would appreciate it if the Minister would comment on how he will report progress to the House , disclose the level of russian state asset that be here , and state how much of the interest accrue from those asset have be mobilise to support Ukraine in its war effort . I thank the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for outline some of the thing in the new clause we have table . I want to outline in some detail what be in new clause 1 and what we hope to achieve with it , and hopefully the Minister will be able to respond and outline some of his thought around report in particular . new clause 1 would impose a reporting requirement on the Secretary of State to keep Parliament inform about three critical aspect of our support to Ukraine under the scheme . the report would detail the monetary support provide to Ukraine , include the amount disburse and how that fit into the broad multilateral agreement . that ensure transparency and allow Members and the public to understand the precise scale of our financial commitment . the report would also provide clarity regard our share of the principal loan amount and any interest accrue . such information be vital for proper scrutiny and public trust , ensure that fund allocate be achieve their intended purpose . finally , and most importantly , the report would shed light on any extraordinary profit arise from immobilised russian sovereign asset under the scheme . while we can not legislate here to seize those asset directly , the provision ensure that the question do not simply fade away . by require regular report , we maintain focus on the issue and keep pressure on the Government to engage with our G7 partner . if , at some future point , there be an opportunity to use russian state asset more directly for Ukraine ' s recovery , Parliament will be fully inform and ready to act . the report must highlight any discussion the UK Government have have with other G7 country about future step , include expand the range of asset consider or use they in new way . that ensure ongoing diplomatic transparency and accountability . Parliament will know if the Government be push for more ambitious measure internationally or if they be hesitate while other lead . in practice , the first report would appear within six month of the Bill ' s passage , with subsequent report every six month until one year after the relevant international arrangement cease to operate . the structured timeline guarantee sustain oversight , rather than just a one - off glance . give the complexity and duration of the challenge Ukraine face , such ongoing engagement be critical . it set a framework for continue scrutiny , encourage more ambitious future action and underscore that , despite the Bill ' s limited scope , our resolve to hold Russia accountable remain unwavere . through those measure , we would ensure that Parliament remain fully informed and ready to stand by our ukrainian ally when the opportunity to take bold step arise . it be a pleasure to speak in support of the Bill . the battle for Ukraine be one of the define issue of our age . in February 2022 , Putin launch an illegal and reckless invasion of a sovereign european democracy . see that happen in the third decade of the 21st century be a sobering moment ; we have see nothing like it on european soil since world war two . it put beyond any doubt the revanchist and irredentist ambition of the russian regime , and the need for all freedom - love democratic people to resist those ambition at all cost . the ukrainian people be fight not just for Ukraine , but for all of we — for the value we hold dear : democracy , human right , the rule of law , and freedom from global gangster like Putin . by help Ukraine to stand strong against russian aggression , we be send a clear message to dictator and autocrat around the world that we will not tolerate violation of national sovereignty or the use of force to change border . last week I meet ukrainian refugee in my constituency who convey not just their gratitude for our country ' s steadfast support for their war action against Russia , but their sense of desperation because many of their visa run out early next year . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should act quickly to give those people the certainty that they will continue to be welcome in the UK for the foreseeable future ? I agree with my hon . friend about visa . we need to do everything we can to support the ukrainian people , whether here in the UK or abroad . our support for Ukraine be an investment not just in its future but in the security and stability of Europe and the world . Russia ' s war against Ukraine have not only devastate the life of million , but challenge the very foundation of the international rule - base order . the brutality of Russia ' s action , the targeting of civilian and the displacement of more than 8 million Ukrainians be stark reminder of the atrocity that war bring to ordinary people . this be a tragedy for the russian people , too . many ten of thousand of russian troop have be needlessly kill in Ukraine — victim of the vainglorious and deranged ambition of their leader . our quarrel be not with ordinary Russians ; it be with the regime that oppress and lie to they . Ukraine , meanwhile , have show resilience , courage and an unwavering determination to protect its land , its people and its freedom . President Zelensky and the ukrainian people have stand firm in the face of adversity . as I have say before , they be fight not just for Ukraine , but for all of we . let we make no mistake : if we do not send the weapon and financial support that the Ukrainians need to fight this war , we will one day have to send our son and daughter to confront Putin and his regime . I be proud to say that our unwavering support for Ukraine unite Members on both side of the House , and it have unite our country , too . I be very proud to walk around my Livingston constituency and see ukrainian flag in window and garden as a sign of our solidarity . from provide military aid to offer humanitarian assistance , and from impose sanction on Russia to offer refuge to those flee war , we have act with purpose and resolve , and many british people , include individual in this House , have open their door to ukrainian refugee . the UK have provide £ 450 million in humanitarian assistance since the start of this full - scale invasion , include £ 20 million to double this year ' s support for Ukraine ' s energy system , and £ 40 million for stabilisation and early recovery , which the Foreign Secretary announce in Kyiv in September . the Labour Government have step up for Ukraine . the UK will deliver £ 3 billion of military aid to Ukraine every year for as long as it be need — their fight be our fight . the UK ' s military , financial , diplomatic and political support for Ukraine be ironclad . the Bill provide the Government with the spending authority to enable the UK to provide the Ukrainians with financial assistance , as part of the G7 extraordinary revenue acceleration loan to Ukraine scheme , which be an important part of this effort . it represent an advance of approximately $ 50 billion , repay from the extraordinary profit make on immobilised russian sovereign asset hold in the UK . we must continue to stand with Ukraine , confront russian aggression , and pursue Putin for his war crime . our response must be one of strength , resilience and unity for as long as it take . at a time of existential threat to Ukraine , I have be hearten by the tone from across the House towards the ukrainian people . it be critical at this moment in history that this House and all european Governments step up and do not give up . while I welcome the detail of this short Bill , we should be focus on the untapped countermeasure and counter - offensive that be at our disposal . like a number of colleague , I gently say to the Minister that we should think about the use of frozen russian asset to support Ukraine in its non - violent economic and political reconstruction . the UN General Assembly have already endorse an international mechanism for compensate Ukraine , but we can not wait for the war to be over before we enact that countermeasure . back in 2022 , Ukraine lose 29 % of its gdp , so if it only receive its compensation at the end of the war , that will be far too late . by use the $ 300 billion in russian central bank asset hold by free and open country now , we can give Ukraine a lifeline as it continue its honourable defence of its country . I believe that this action would be not just morally justified , but underpin by sound legal ground . the true centre of gravity in this war be Ukraine ' s economic endurance against Russia ' s strategy of attrition and ruin , but despite the effort across Europe , there be currently a leadership vacuum when it come to push through the use of frozen russian asset to assist the decisive action that be need for Ukraine ' s victory . we be see Putin ' s increase isolation , with civil unrest in Russia , and it be imperative that we take advantage of that . to date , european country and the United States have provide roughly $ 3 billion per month to the ukrainian people in order to keep their Government function . I think all member of this House would endorse that approach , but in the long term , it be neither right nor practical to expect western taxpayer to foot the bill for reconstruct Ukraine when there be legal mean for Russia to pay . there can be no credible scenario whereby Russia get its money back after wage an unprompted war against Ukraine while the victim go uncompensated . that would effectively give the right of an aggressor precedence over those of its victim . we must show that the UN ruling and international law have tooth , and that Russia will face consequence for wage its illegal war . we can not live in the blind hope that Russia will fulfil its legal obligation . as such , I gently say to the Minister that take action now and use those frozen russian asset as a form of down payment on the reparation that Russia will one day have to pay be a route that the Government should pursue at the early opportunity . it be a pleasure to speak in support of this Bill , and to pay tribute to the Government for their support for Ukraine and to the consensus across the House that Ukraine must be support against the barbaric and illegal invasion of a sovereign nation , as my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) say . the invasion of one european state by another in February 2022 be something I never think I would see in my lifetime — we all think that have be consign to the history book , where it belong . I be very pleased that we be back the ukrainian people in their struggle , and I hope that in time , the russian people can vote in free , fair and democratic election to choose their own path . I also pay tribute to the community of Northumberland , who have come together to welcome family from Ukraine in Hexham , in Riding Mill , and in other town and village across my constituency . when I be out and about in my constituency , I be always strike by the ukrainian flag that I see , sometimes in the most incongruous place — on country lane , on the side of church and in private home . it really give I a renew optimism to see those flag fly beneath the beautiful northumbrian sky . one question that have be put to I by constituent , and on which I would like to gently probe the Minister , be the future of the Homes for Ukraine scheme . many family who have take in ukrainian refugee have ask I to pursue clarity on that scheme , so I would be grateful if the Minister could give some assurance about it , or some timetable for it . ultimately , this short Bill be need to promote and protect one of our sovereign democratic ally , to protect our institution , and — as my hon . friend the Member for Livingston say — to avoid the need for further conflict in the year to come . Putin ' s war machine could quite easily continue to impinge on our life and on people ' s live across the rest of Europe . I would endorse the comment that have be make by colleague . I think we sometimes need a little bit of perspective . in my constituency and in Tayside and Fife — the hon . member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) will be well aware of this — we have defensive barrier that be build during the second world war . the barrier in Tayside and Fife be build by Polish and , as they now be , ukrainian soldier who be stand up to tyranny . they build those defence to defend Scotland , and to defend the rest of the United Kingdom as well . they know that there be no point in stand up to tyranny just in one corner of Europe ; we have to do it throughout Europe . those defence stand as a testament to the time when the Poles and the Ukrainians stand by we . now be the time for we to once again stand by they . I echo the remark make by the hon . member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) about the way that Ukrainians have come to our home and have enrich our society and our community . I know they be keen to go home , but we can just give they that little bit of certainty . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) for his work and that of other on frozen asset . that speak to the enormous challenge that Ukraine be face , and that the rest of we be therefore face at exactly the same time . I acknowledge the work of the Minister in seek to untangle those asset . I welcome his remark — I really do — but some of the administrative burden be as nothing compare with the burden that have be carry by ukrainian troop on the frontline in Kursk , Donbas and elsewhere , and compare with the challenge we will see from conflict and a refugee crisis should that front collapse at any point . I know he get that , and there be agreement across the Chamber on it , but I think it be worth underline . I also welcome the remark make by the conservative shadow Minister , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , about engage with our european partner on this , because that be pivotal . I fully endorse his remark about where a number of these fund be be keep , and about how if one move , we all need to move . there be unanimity in this Committee , and I have be strike by the outstanding work do by a number of colleague , that unanimity and resolve reflect the magnitude of the challenge that each and every one of we face if we do not stand up to tyranny and secure the future of Europe right now . I wholeheartedly welcome this Bill , which allow we , alongside our G7 partner , to provide £ 38 . 6 billion of loan to Ukraine to be repay use profit from sanctioned russian asset , and I wholly support this Government ' s commitment to stand unequivocally with Ukraine . I believe that Putin and his crony should be the one who pay for the damage they have cause across Ukraine . to that end , while this be a very welcome first step , do the Minister agree that we should be do all we can within the rule of law to seize frozen russian asset , both private and state , and use they to finance the reconstruction of Ukraine ? moreover , may I gently suggest to the Minister that we must secure a swift resolution on the proceed of the sale of Chelsea football club ? in March 2022 , Roman Abramovich pledge to sell Chelsea football club and donate the £ 2 . 5 billion — nearly seven time the value of the humanitarian assistance that the UK have pledge since the invasion in 2022 — to support victim of the war in Ukraine . however , as I think all member know , two year on from the sale , this have hit a stalemate , and regrettably no money have be deliver to the victim of the conflict . with that in mind , the Government should commit to a number of recommendation that the campaign group Redress have work on , and all of which I support . the first recommendation be take step to ensure that the proceed of the sale of Chelsea football club be swiftly transfer to a charitable foundation in the UK , or adopt other exist mechanism set up to deliver reparation to victim of the conflict . the second be ensure that a substantial percentage of the fund be use for reparation for victim of the conflict , particularly victim of gross violation of international human right and humanitarian , such as survivor of conflict - relate sexual violence . the third recommendation be to engage ukrainian civil society , victim and survivor in guide the repurposing of those fund . the fourth and final recommendation be to establish a working group between the Government , civil society and survivor to ensure that fund be distribute in an effective and timely manner . I very much welcome the substantial progress that the Government have make in the past few month in stand shoulder to shoulder with the ukrainian people , include the recent announcement of a new anti - corruption champion , the further designation of vessel in the russian shadow fleet and increase collaboration across Government to tackle Putin ' s war economy , bear down on both the Kremlin and the wide network of crony who enable his unlawful and persistent invasion of Ukraine . as my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) say , the Bill be an important step , and I welcome further initiative to support the ukrainian people as they continue their struggle to protect their sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of Putin ' s unlawful invasion . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) . he have demonstrate why he will be such a valuable addition to the Foreign Affairs Committee , and I congratulate he on his election to it . I associate myself with his comment and those of other member . we often find ourselves disagree over the small of detail , so I be proud that we can all come together on an issue of such magnitude in unity with the people of Ukraine . long may that cross - party support continue . early this year , as some member may know , I have the privilege of visit Ukraine . I go over with an estonian charity , drive a couple of military pick - up truck over from the UK as part of a much large convoy that go into Kyiv . those vehicle be hand over to the ukrainian soldier , and it bring home that there be not only support and solidarity in this country for Ukraine , but solidarity across the whole of Europe . that be why we be come together on the measure in this Bill . hopefully we will have an opportunity to go again , and I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . we be both on a call early , and I know that he and other member have also make trip to Ukraine and be part of aid convoy to help people , and long may that continue . this Bill be another tool in the arsenal when it come to fight one of the world ' s great tyrant . Ukraine ' s fight against russian tyranny be not just for Ukraine ' s sovereignty , but for the freedom and security of the whole of Europe . one strike thing in make that journey be realise just how flat Europe be . I know that seem a silly point , but it bring home that there be nothing stop Putin at the border of Ukraine if we do not stand up against he now . the fact that another of the world ' s tyrant , Assad , be now cower in Moscow demonstrate the importance of curtail Russia ' s aggression . I be proud that this Government and the Government before have stand foursquare behind Ukraine . as other member have say , the Bill will land a deafening blow on Putin ' s war machine and unlock a £ 2 . 26 billion contribution from the UK to the extraordinary revenue acceleration scheme , which crucially will not be pay by Ukraine or by british taxpayer . it come from dodgy cash from profit own by sanctioned russian asset hold in the EU . I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) , who list the various way in which the previous Government and the current Government have support Ukraine . long may that continue . it be so important that we continue to stand four - square behind Ukraine for as long as it take . I urge the Committee to do all in our power to ensure that the Bill receive Royal Assent as urgently as be feasible , especially as we approach winter , when the battle condition will become even tough . finally , I use this opportunity to pay tribute to the ukrainian force fight on the frontline , the british troop involve in training and equip they and all those show resilience in the face of Putin ' s illegal war . in closing , I thank right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) , for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) and for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) and the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) and for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) , the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , and the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , for be here for this important debate . all of we across the House want the same thing : for Ukraine to win the war and for the UK to provide the good possible support to make that happen as quickly as possible . I assure the House that this will remain a priority for the Government , and the Bill be an important step towards that goal . I turn to new clause 1 , table by the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) . I will explain why the Government will not support it . the new clause would impose reporting requirement on the Secretary of State in relation to the ERA . as I see it , those would broadly fit into two category . the first would require financial reporting to Parliament on the progress of the £ 2 . 26 billion ERA loan itself . that would include provide information on the disbursement make by the UK and our share comparatively to the G7 , and provide detail of the repayment that we will receive from the EU ' s Ukraine loan co - operation mechanism . the second category would involve produce a write summary for Parliament of discussion between the UK and our G7 ally regard any subsequent scheme . the reference to subsequent arrangement track to the language in paragraph ( b ) of clause 1 , which provide the Government with the flexibility to provide fund to Ukraine via alternative arrangement that be supplemental to , modify or replace the ERA : for example , where necessary , to respond to unforeseen future event or material change in circumstance beyond our control . I will approach each of those category in turn . the additional financial reporting requirement in subsection ( 2 ) of the new clause be unnecessary because the information require to be report under that subsection will be report in any case through the Treasury ' s exist channel . the first tranche of the loan will be disburse from the Treasury in the financial year to 31 March 2025 . the spend will therefore be reflect accordingly in the Department ' s detailed annual report and account for this financial year alongside disclosure of any narrative associate with the spend . the annual report and account will be lay in Parliament before they be make public ; that usually happen in mid - July . any future spending and repayment in future year will be reflect in the annual report and account in the normal way . the Treasury plan to make the ERA support package separately identifiable in the note to the account , which will allow the financial impact of the scheme to be readily understandable . that will be include alongside full disclosure of the risk — for example , credit risk and market risk — associate with the ERA spending . I turn to subsection ( 3 ) , which would require the publication of a summary of discussion between the Government and other G7 lender on subsequent arrangement . as the House might expect I to say , the Government should not tie their hand by agree to provide a public report on the nature of private discussion between G7 lender . that would threaten to undermine the UK ' s credibility with our establish partner and ally ; I hope that be an obvious point . privacy allow our international partner to speak candidly to we and vice versa , which be key to our diplomatic effort . the House will understand that that be especially important for matter of global security , such as the debate before we . when discussion be make and milestone reach , the G7 issue statement and communiqu é s in the normal way . we do not want to undermine that process with mandatory additional reporting to Parliament . the Government be commit to transparency and accountability , however , and Parliament will be update in the usual way when major decision be take . that include through oral and write ministerial statement , as the Chancellor do when the UK ' s contribution to the ERA be announce in October , but that do not extend so far as to provide a running commentary , which would ultimately serve to undermine our ability to resolve sensitive matter , include those relate to russian asset , with our close ally . I thank the hon . member for table the new clause and hope that my answer be satisfactory in explain the Government ' s position . before I close , I turn to other point make by right hon . and hon . member in the debate . the shadow Chief Secretary ask I a number of question . first , of course , G7 ally will co - ordinate our approach to the scheme in the round , include repayment and mechanism for the future . however , as he note , different country be use contribution in different way . as we have report to the House , our intention be to use the money for military aid to Ukraine . the term of the loan and how the loan will be execute be currently be discuss between our Government and the Ukrainian Government and will be manage in the normal way as part of our portfolio of loan . on timing , as I say , we intend to get the money to Ukraine as quickly as possible next year , which be why we will progress to Royal Assent for this enable Bill as quickly as possible . the term of the ERA say that all money should be pay at the late by the end of 2027 , although we intend to be quick than that . a number of member raise the correct point that , under international law , Russia be liable for the damage it have cause in Ukraine and must pay for that damage . a number of hon . member ask about asset seizure . I have set out the Government ' s position on that , but I can reassure the House that although this Bill be not about seizure of asset , the Government and our ally continue to keep all available opportunity under review so that we can pursue lawful avenue to ensure that Russia pay for the damage it have cause . my hon . friend the Members for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy and for Hexham raise the Homes for Ukraine scheme and visa . I assure they that I will pass those point to my colleague in the Home Office to consider and respond to in due course . member rightly point out the support that this country have give to the people of Ukraine , the ukrainian armed force and our ally in support they . it be timely go into the Christmas period , when we have many image of England on our Christmas card and our tv , to note the number of ukrainian flag on house , church and community building across the United Kingdom . that be a gesture of solidarity between the british people and the ukrainian people , and show that we be keep they in our heart this Christmas time , and in our mind as we think about our resolve go into 2025 to do all that we can to help they through these atrocious situation on the border with Russia . among some of the excellent contribution we hear in this debate be the remark by the hon . member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) that if Putin be not see to fail in Ukraine , british troop will ultimately end up be involve in some sort of conflict directly . will the Minister take that message back to his Treasury colleague ? some of we feel that the argument about whether 2 . 5 % of GDP should be spend now or in a couple of year ' time rather miss the point , because if we get to the stage where british force be engage , we will be spend far more than that . as a Treasury Minister , he should realise that investment in defence in peacetime can deter a much more expensive conflict . the Government ' s position , as the right hon . Gentleman will know , be that we will set out the trajectory to 2 . 5 % of gdp on NATO qualifying spend in 2025 , follow the conclusion of the strategic defence review and the spending review . he will also know that we fund our armed force not just to be prepare , but to be ready to contribute . but clearly , I can not comment on hypothetical scenario in 2025 . he be right to allude to contribution in the debate that rightly highlight the ukrainian armed force on the battlefield fighting not just for their own country but for the security of Europe and the United Kingdom . I think we be all clear - eyed about that and , therefore , our responsibility to help they . that be why the Bill be one part of the package of support that we be put in place and will continue to put in place over 2025 . I think I have answer most of the point substantively , and so I conclude my remark . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . Bill , not amend in the Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . once again , I extend my gratitude to member from across the House for contribute to today ' s debate and facilitate the swift passage of the Bill . today , and throughout the Bill ' s passage so far , this House have make clear its strong feeling on the plight of the ukrainian people . member of all political stripe have speak eloquently in favour of continue support for Ukraine in its ongoing fight against Russia ' s tyrannical , unprovoked and illegal aggression . since Russia ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 , no matter which party have be in office , the UK Government have remain committed to fully support Ukraine for as long as it take . the G7 extraordinary revenue acceleration scheme and this Bill , which facilitate the UK ' s contribution , be another demonstration of the UK deliver on that promise . beyond the ERA , the UK have now commit £ 12 . 8 billion in military , humanitarian and economic support to Ukraine . early this year , the Government announce that we will continue to provide guarantee military support of £ 3 billion per year to Ukraine for as long as it take , and our ERA commitment go far still . as hon . member will know , the Bill unlock the UK ' s contribution of £ 2 . 26 billion , which constitute a fair and proportionate contribution to the scheme base on our GDP share within the G7 and EU . it remain crucial that we pass the Bill as swiftly as possible to begin disburse fund this winter to meet Ukraine ' s urgent need . take together , the ERA will provide Ukraine with an additional $ 50 billion in support . I pay tribute to our G7 partner for their collective determination to bring the ERA to fruition in just a few short month . we all remain united in our support for Ukraine against russian provocation . we in this House recognise the sacrifice that the people of Ukraine be make . they be fight not only for their own survival and national identity , but for the security of Europe and the United Kingdom . the Bill will enable the Government to provide Ukraine with the essential support it require to continue its battle against Putin ' s unjust and illegal aggression . at this point , Madam Deputy Speaker , give that this be probably my last contribution to the House this year , I wish you and the House a very merry Christmas , and say to the ukrainian people that we hold they all in our heart over this difficult period . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . on behalf of the official Opposition , I thank the Government for bring forward the Bill and conclude its stage in this House before we break for Christmas . I also thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , for the way he have handle the discussion on the Bill at each stage , provide member with all the information they need at any stage and in answer to all question . he have do an exemplary job . I note the uniformity of support across this House from Members , whichever party they represent . however , it go deep than that : since former Prime Minister Boris Johnson galvanise the west into defence of Ukraine , through former Prime Minister Liz Truss , to my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , and now , with our current Prime Minister , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , the United Kingdom Government have be determine in support of the people of Ukraine . it say something of the depth of support in this country for the people of Ukraine that if we sweep away a large proportion of the member of this House and replace they with different representative from across the country , the resolve in support for Ukraine would remain the same . we must not give up our effort . since we start our debate , there have be further action in Ukraine . I will quote the late summary from the Institute for the Study of War , which demonstrate the urgent need for the support set out in the Bill that we be pass today : " on December 14 … russian force field more than 100 piece of equipment in a recent assault in the Siversk direction and note that there be 55 combat engagement in this direction on December 13 — a significant increase in tempo in this area of the frontline . " it go on : " the GUR report that a contingent consist of russian and north korean servicemen in Kursk Oblast lose 200 personnel as of December 14 and that ukrainian drone swarm a north korean position , which be consistent with recent report of north korean force engage in attritional infantry assault . " our support , the military support the United Kingdom provide under this measure , be desperately need , but the need go far . since Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , an estimate 8 million ukrainian citizen have be displace and 6 million people have leave the country as refugee , with many still unable to return . as hon . member have say , over 200 , 000 ukrainian citizen be live in the United Kingdom . our thought and prayer be with they and their family . we should also note the work of british charity and non - governmental organisation , include the British Red Cross , which estimate that , with other Red Cross and Red Crescent society around the world , assistance have be provide to over 18 million people in Ukraine . as we take our break , many of we will be celebrate Christmas . I hope that the christian message of peace and hope will resonate in the new year , and that all of we in western Europe and particularly in Ukraine can look forward to a peaceful future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in support of the Bill and to highlight the importance of our unwavering commitment to Ukraine . I thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his detailed response to the point raise in my new clause , which I really appreciate . when I address this House a few week ago , I express my desire for measure that would go far , particularly to empower the Government to seize russian state asset freeze in the UK and use they to help rebuild Ukraine — an issue many hon . member touch on in the Committee of the whole House . it remain , in my view and that of the Liberal Democrats , a critical step that must be take . while procedural constraint have make such an amendment impossible within the scope of the Bill , the importance of ensure accountability and justice can not be overstate . the repurposing of frozen russian asset be not just a financial issue ; it be about ensure that those who have enable the Kremlin ' s action face tangible consequence . the UK have an opportunity to lead by example in demonstrate that aggression will not go unpunished . the Bill , by enable the UK to participate in the G7 ' s ERA loan programme , provide vital financial support to Ukraine at a critical time in its fight for freedom . beyond financial measure , we must continue to stand resolutely with our ukrainian ally in other way . that include provide advanced military aid , bolster Ukraine ' s defence , and work closely with NATO and the EU to co - ordinate our collective response to russian aggression . the UK must lead by example , show that our commitment to Ukraine be unshakeable even in the face of uncertainty about the future of US support . Ukraine ' s fight be not just for its own sovereignty , but for the principle of freedom and democracy that we all hold dear . with winter loom and the conflict show no sign of abate , the UK must be a steadfast partner , ensure that Ukraine have the resource , support and international backing it need to endure and prevail . the Bill be a welcome step forward , but it can not be the final word . let we seize the moment to demonstrate moral leadership and resolve . let we ensure that Ukraine ' s struggle for freedom remain our share cause , pave the way for a future of peace and resilience . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) order , that the Order of 22 October 2024 ( Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( 3 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . — ( Stephen Doughty . ) Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be a particular pleasure to follow the swift passage of that important Bill on financial assistance to Ukraine . it be also a particular pleasure to join the ukrainian Foreign Minister twice in the last two week and to assure he of our continued support at this time , especially as we approach the Christmas season , but also , crucially , to assure he that we will continue our financial commitment and that there be unity across the House and , indeed , the country . this too be an important Bill , on which there be again a huge amount of unity across the House . I hope that it will not detain we long . I pay tribute to all member for their co - operation in get the Bill this far so quickly in the new Parliament and under this new Government . it be a rare occasion when the House find itself in such agreement , but the Bill have continue to receive unwavering support from member in all part of the House . that be a true testament to the importance that member ascribe not only to the aim of the Bill , but to the aim and value of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross . I strongly endorse the sentiment that the Minister have express . may I offer my thank and support to the cpa , which recently stage an excellent visit to read on behalf of the Barbadian Parliament ? it be a wonderful experience , which be interesting and supportive both for I as a parliamentarian and for my colleague from Barbados . it help the barbadian community in read to build and develop vital link . our town once have the large concentration of Barbadians outside Barbados itself , and there be a strong heritage there . the visit be much appreciated , and I wholeheartedly support the cpa and thank it for its work . I thank my hon . friend for his comment , which underline the importance that we ascribe to our relationship with our Commonwealth partner as parliamentarian and , of course , as a Government . as my hon . friend will know , the Foreign Secretary make his own visit to the Caribbean just last week . those tie be hugely important , and it be important that we maintain they in the House as well . this be a significant moment for both organisation . the cpa have be seek this change in its legal status for more than 20 year , and the icrc have be do so for over a decade . we be now finally able to deliver that . the passing of the Bill will ensure that the cpa ' s headquarter remain in the UK , and its treatment as an international organisation will allow it to continue to operate fully across the Commonwealth and international fora . it will also allow the cpa to participate fully in area where it be currently restrict . as I have say , we ascribe great importance to our membership of the Commonwealth , a vibrant global network of 2 . 5 billion people unite in the pursuit of freedom , peace and prosperity . in October this year , Samoa host the first Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in a Pacific island country . it be his Majesty the King ' s first CHOGM as head of the Commonwealth , and there be a strong Government attendance . I be especially delighted that the representative of the UK overseas territory be present — the current president of the UK Overseas Territories Association and Premier of the Cayman Islands . this be the crucial context within which the cpa operate , and it be crucial that we secure status change so that it can continue its work in promote democracy and good governance across the Commonwealth . have participate in its work in the past , with both incoming and outgoing delegation — I think fondly of my visit to Ghana a few year ago , work with Commonwealth parliamentarian from across Africa — I have see that work at first hand . throughout the Bill ' s passage , member have be vocal about the crucial role the icrc play in conflict to protect civilian life . it have a unique mandate under the Geneva convention to provide humanitarian assistance to people affect by armed conflict and other situation of violence and to promote the law that protect victim of war , and it work globally to promote international humanitarian law . it also have a unique legitimacy to engage with all party to conflict , and have unparallelled access to provide protection and assistance to vulnerable group in conflict around the world . it be therefore critical that it can operate in the UK in accordance with its international mandate , maintain its strict adherence to the principle of neutrality , impartiality and independence and its working method of confidentiality . I know from our previous debate that member be in agreement on why the Bill be so important in enshrine those principle . we will continue to work with both the cpa and the icrc to agree the write arrangement that will set out the parameter of the status change , as well as the privilege and immunity that the Government have decide to confer on both organisation . those arrangement will be specify in Orders in Council , which will be bring to the House to be debate and vote on before be implement . as member be aware , this be not the first time the House have consider the Bill . it be first a private Member ' s Bill that be introduce in the last session by the former Member for Basingstoke , and I pay tribute to she for her effort in push it forward . I also want to put on the record my gratitude to the team of fcdo official and lawyer who have work tirelessly to ensure the Bill ' s readiness and provide support to various Ministers throughout its passage . I thank my noble friend in the other place , Lord Collins and Baroness Chapman , for their work in ensure the Bill ' s smooth passage . I also express my thank and appreciation to the drafter in the Office of the parliamentary Counsel for prepare the Bill , and to the House authority for all their work behind the scene . give that this be likely to be my last outing before the festive season , I want to wish a very happy Christmas to member of the House — Nadolig llawen — and I wish everybody a successful festive season . I be delighted that we will get this Bill to its conclusion imminently . I call the shadow Minister . I be pleased to stand here as the shadow Minister represent his Majesty ' s official Opposition , and to support this Bill . sadly , I note that the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) be not in her place . the opposition support the Bill , as we have do throughout its passage — both here and in the other place . we support the Bill in the last Session , when it be a private member ' s Bill . I , too , pay tribute to Dame Maria Miller , who be no long a Member of this House and who originally promote the Bill . we continue our support in this session as it come before we as a Government Bill . I thank their lordship , who have take a lot of interest in the Bill and make valuable contribution , particularly Baroness anelay of St Johns . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) for their work on Second Reading and in Committee respectively . this be a sensible Bill for two really important organisation : the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross . these organisation do vital work that be often align with UK foreign policy objective . it be important to resolve the issue that the Bill seek to address , and we want to see it on the statute book . the Bill be to be welcome , and it will now be key for the Government to take advantage of the new structure it put in place . on the cpa , we welcome the fact that the Bill make a number of legal change and support the work of the court in deal with privilege and immunity . as we say on Second Reading , it be important that the Government now stretch every sinew to support both the work of the UK delegation and the cpa more widely . perhaps I might also say that the performance of the Government at their first Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting be find a little wanting . that say , we very much hope to see future engagement with the cpa , particularly in the democratic institution - building work that be signal in the Samoa communiqu é . the Commonwealth be a community of like - minded nation with shared history , but it be about so much more . it be about our public institution , an independent judiciary and the rule of law . I recall my own visit to Barbados in 2021 , when I be a Minister at the Foreign Office . I accompany the then Prince of Wales , who be now his Majesty the King . it be surely a testament to the value of the Commonwealth that Barbados have choose to remain a member of the community of nation . the cpa do so much to strengthen the Commonwealth , and I praise the work of colleague serve on the executive committee , in particular my hon . friend the Members for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) and for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , who be not in the Chamber today , and my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , who be sit on the Benches behind I . I also thank my colleague in the other place , Baroness Sugg and Lord Kamall , who be on the executive committee . the icrc have a unique legitimacy that allow it to engage with party to conflict across the world , and to gain important access to vulnerable people in conflict zone . the Bill recognise that , which be to be welcome . the icrc do vital work ; I hope the Government will continue to recognise that , as we do in government , by commit generously to support its activity . the icrc employ 18 , 000 staff around the world who work under incredibly difficult circumstance in some of the bad crisis , and I would like to thank they on behalf of those of we on the Opposition Benches for their service . I will conclude as I start , by reiterate our support for the Bill before we today . it make a number of welcome change that support the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross , and I again pay tribute to all who support their vital work . as the Minister say as he conclude , I hope this be my last outing at the Dispatch Box this week before Christmas , and I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all member a very merry Christmas . first , I declare my interest as a member of the UK cpa executive . it have be great to see the swift progress this Bill have make thus far and the cross - party support it have receive . it be a short but important Bill that define the status of the cpa and the icrc . this be the third time it have be bring before the House , and I be sure , give the cross - party support it have already receive , it will pass Third read smoothly . the Bill be essential in provide the cpa and the icrc with the require protection to operate as trust partner of the UK and continue work in promote democracy and meet humanitarian need . the UK continue proudly to reaffirm the vital role of the Commonwealth family in tackle the issue we face in an ever more uncertain world . I recently meet the high commissioner of a few Commonwealth country , include Zambia , St Vincent and the Grenadines , and Cyprus , who truly value their relationship with the UK . we must continue to foster good relation across the Commonwealth , and we can do so only if leader and parliamentarian have the opportunity to work together . I fully support the proposal for elevate the cpa and the icrc status within the UK to stand alongside their vital international partner . this Bill will allow the cpa to operate as an international organisation headquarter in London rather than within limited scope as a UK charity . the cpa do incredible work in engage parliamentarian across the Commonwealth , fully embody its mission in promote the advancement of parliamentary democracy . the threat to democracy and our liberal value have never be great since the second world war , so this mission be more important than ever . the ability to engage openly with parliamentarian globally , particularly in fragile and conflict - ride region , and to exchange knowledge , good practice and an understanding of good democratic governance could make a world of difference . globally , the cpa operate in over 180 legislature in 60 nation and encompass over 18 , 500 parliamentarian . the cross - parliamentary engagement conference and the forum allow for fruitful discussion on common value and aspiration . importantly , this Bill will provide parliamentarian with the credibility and authority to operate fully on the international stage . the status of the cpa as an international organisation will facilitate an active role in global diplomacy in address the challenge of our time . expand its organisational scope will also bring the ability to sign international convention and pursue political purpose such as denounce the political persecution of parliamentarian in several country . grant the necessary privilege and legal immunity to the cpa place it on an equal footing with other international organisation , thus ensure its global influence in promote parliamentary democracy and good governance . crucially , the Bill seek to elevate the status of the icrc . as an independent humanitarian organisation , the icrc have a unique mandate to protect victim of armed conflict , enshrine in the Geneva convention of 1949 . this Bill will provide the necessary mechanism to enhance the work of the icrc in a way befit its mandate in international humanitarian law . grant the icrc certain immunity and privilege will bring the UK into line with over 110 state and alleviate many operational challenge under its current status . the icrc ' s effort to provide humanitarian assistance and rebuild community need to be protect . it be important to recognise that the ICRC work in many dangerous zone around the world , and that allow the legal protection of information and testimony will in turn protect its worker and benefit the people it be help . its work in Gaza , Sudan , Congo , Ukraine and in over 90 country must be protect and must maintain its principle of neutrality , independence and confidentiality . this Bill provide a critical step in ensure that both the cpa and the icrc , through their new status as international organisation , be entrust by the Government to operate fully within the UK . both organisation will continue to be value partner in the UK ' s central role in global diplomacy , through the promotion of good governance , democracy and the Commonwealth , and in address global humanitarian need . I hope the whole House will support the Bill on Third Reading . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you for your forbearance , Madam Deputy Speaker . I apologise for my hasty entry into the Chamber , which do not detract from the high importance that the Liberal Democrats and I attach to this Bill . I be pleased to welcome the Bill back to the House on Third Reading and , have listen to hon . member over the past week , I acknowledge the reservoir of support across the House for both the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross . on the liberal Democrat Benches , we want to see Britain deepen trust and building partnership with our ally ; we want to see Britain set an example in its support for international humanitarian law ; and we want to see Britain counter the rise in global authoritarianism through our commitment to institution such as the Commonwealth . Set against the scale of these ambition , the change make by this Bill may seem comparatively narrow . they be , however , no less important . by alter the status of the cpa and the icrc so they can be treat as international organisation , with associate privilege and immunity , we will safeguard the critical mission of both body while ensure they can retain their particular relationship with the United Kingdom . in the case of the cpa , the importance of this be readily apparent . the cpa ' s present designation as a UK charity limit its participation in the work of the Commonwealth to that of a civil society organisation and fail to respect the spirit of co - operation and voluntary association that animate the Commonwealth . this Bill be an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the Commonwealth and to continue host the cpa ' s headquarters here in the United Kingdom . the Commonwealth charter , sign by the late Queen Elizabeth II , lay out the 16 core value and principle of the Commonwealth . these include democracy , human right , gender equality , protect the environment , and the rule of law . these be all principle and value that the liberal Democrats be pleased to champion . I turn now to the International Committee of the Red Cross and its thousand of dedicated employee who , along with million of volunteer in national and international Red Cross and Red Crescent society , comprise the rest of the broad Red Cross and Red Crescent movement . the icrc be an organisation without parallel . its unique mandate be an exclusively humanitarian one : to protect the life and dignity of victim of armed conflict and other situation of violence , and to promote and strengthen humanitarian law . I be sad to say that the icrc ' s mission be as indispensable now as it be at the committee ' s found in 1863 and when it be affirm by the Geneva convention in 1949 . today the world be rack by more than 120 armed conflict . in Sudan , Ukraine , Gaza and across the wide world , million have be make refugee and ten of million have be internally displace . the UN estimate that 87 % of the casualty result from recent hostility have be civilian . aid worker , such as those in the Red Cross and Red Crescent movement , be increasingly at risk , and even news welcome by this House , such as the fall of the brutal Assad regime , be accompany by urgent humanitarian need . since the beginning of the war in Syria in 2011 , the icrc have register more than 35 , 000 case of people who have go miss . now , with Assad ' s prison finally cast open , the icrc have be work to reunite family and to support ex - prisoner . in Sudan , where some 25 million people be in urgent need of humanitarian aid , the shameful russian veto of the UN Security Council resolution draft by the UK and Sierra Leone , which call on both the Rapid Support Forces and the sudanese armed force to increase aid access , must now encourage the Government to redouble their effort to see humanitarian law uphold . since the beginning of the conflict in Gaza , the icrc have facilitate the release , transfer and return to their loved one of 109 israeli hostage hold in Gaza . the committee also perform the same function for 154 free palestinian detainee . presently , the icrc have be deny access to the hostage even now hold by Hamas in Gaza , as well as to the Palestinians in israeli detention . the icrc therefore have no assurance that either the hostage or the detainee be receive humane treatment , nutrition or healthcare . will the Minister affirm that the icrc must be give immediate access to the hostage in Gaza and to the detainee in Israel and the occupy territory to fulfil its mandate under the third Geneva convention ? will he also inform the House of what action the Department be take to ensure combatant adhere to their obligation under international humanitarian law to treat prisoner and detainee humanely ? by treat the icrc as an international organisation , we can provide it with a legal basis to protect its neutrality and continue its work in the world ' s most dangerous and fraught region , and that will be a positive step . however , we must also recognise that while change to the icrc ' s status be necessary , they be far from sufficient to ensure that humanitarian law be upheld and humanitarian aid be deliver where , when and in the quantity that it be need . I urge the Government to stand up to the permissive attitude in international law that we witness today in many war zone , affirm our share value in support of international humanitarian law and impress upon war faction the need to deliver aid without interference . I be glad that the fcdo ' s support to the icrc this year look likely to exceed the £ 133 million provide last year . however , I remain concerned that the cut to the UK ' s international development spending from 0 . 58 % of gross national income to 0 . 5 % , announce in the Budget , will be reflect in reduce support to the icrc in 2025 and beyond . at this dangerous time , when support for humanitarian aid organisation be so critical , I hope the Government will commit to increase the funding next year for the icrc and the indispensable work it do . we Liberal Democrats come from a long tradition of liberal internationalism , which prize co - operation base on share value . the effort of both the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross be of vital importance . we be proud to support they and proud to support the Bill . it be a pleasure to follow the liberal Democrat spokesperson , who make it just in time . I say , well late than never . it be an important contribution . I want to assure the parliamentary private Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) , who put it to I that it look like I have rather a lot of piece of paper in my hand and ask how long I intend to speak , that it be more a case of the font be a bit big so I can read it , as oppose to the temptation of speak for far too long . [ interruption . ] never ? you should be so lucky . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak briefly on Third Reading of this much need and very welcome piece of legislation . I want to start , as my hon . friend the Member for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) do , by declare my interest as a member of the executive of the UK branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the Commonwealth . I congratulate the Minister on his work get the Bill through the House and pay the same tribute to Baroness Chapman , alongside noble Lords of all party and none — I think of Baroness d ' souza particularly . that the Bill have work its way through the House with no substantive amendment speak to the collective commitment on all side to our role on the world stage and to be good citizen . I note on Second Reading that the Bill have be through the war and be rudely interrupt by the general election , although I would not be here without that , so I be grateful to a point . I be therefore delighted that Royal Assent be within touching distance . with that in mind , I accept that the soon I sit down , the fast the Bill will get on the statute book . however , I want to say a couple of thing . in many way , I be a child of the Commonwealth : my grandfather be bear in Jamaica , that wonderful island in the West Indies , and my father , as member will know by my surname Jogee , be of indian heritage , but be bear and raise in Zimbabwe — Rhodesia at the time , but now Zimbabwe . notwithstanding Zimbabwe ' s departure from , and intention to rejoin , the Commonwealth — an issue I shall raise with the Minister for Development in the new year — all three nation , alongside our United Kingdom , be or be important member of the Commonwealth of Nations . this Bill be important to I , as it ensure that we lead by example , give real , tangible effect to our commitment to the Commonwealth , and make it clear that we will play our full part . that be important , because , follow our departure from the European Union , make global Britain work , make it real and make it a success have to happen with the Commonwealth at its heart . a successful and effective Commonwealth can be a vehicle for our value , for trade , for the sharing of idea , and for delivery . the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association do such important work , and the new legal status that this Bill afford it allow we , as a United Kingdom , to take our seat firmly at the table . it bring parliamentarian here together , allow we to form friendship — the former Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , and I be now pal — and create alliance and working relationship at home and abroad . it allow we to learn from other , to share our success and , importantly , to pick up good practice . as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson note , it be important that the cpa will remain headquartered here in our United Kingdom . I would like to say thank you to Sarah , Josh , Helen , Daisy and all the team who have support I since my election to the executive of the UK branch of the cpa . my thank also go to the secretary - general of the cpa . Stephen Twigg be a former Member of this House and the man who send Portillo packing in Enfield Southgate back in 1997 . I see Stephen ' s effectiveness , patience , and diligence up close at the cpa conference — I be sure that the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale will agree with that . just to reassure Opposition Members , I would also like to pay tribute to Dame Maria Miller , formerly of this parish , for the role that she play in get we to where we be today . this Bill be about our standing on the world stage and our role as a leader in the fight for human right , democracy , respect , good governance , decency and , importantly , togetherness . the Bill , when sign into law by his Majesty , will specifically grant international status to both the icrc and the cpa and will enable both those reputable and long - stand body to benefit from the immunity and privilege of all other international body . that be a win for all of we . it be a technical Bill , but an important one . I know that colleague in Parliaments and Assemblies across the Commonwealth be look to we to get this do , and today , all be well , we will do just that . her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II always say that she have to be see to be believe , and she be right . the same go for we , Madam Deputy Speaker , because as this Bill become law — subject to the will of the House — we will be able to look our partner , neighbour and friend in the eye and prove our commitment to the Commonwealth in deed as well as in word . the Committee stage of the Bill be the first Committee that I sit on follow my election to this House . I accept that it be a little less demanding than the Committees on some of the other Bills before we , but that speak to the cross - party nature of the Bill . I welcome the support of colleague from across the House , include the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) and the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) from the Liberal Democrats . I join the Minister in pay tribute to all the official in the Foreign Office who have work on the Bill , some of whom be listen , and to the Clerks and official here in this House . they be all wonderful and very talented people . I wish the Bill well when the question be put shortly , and I look forward to support it on Third Reading . I feel sure that it will receive the overwhelming support of the House . as this be the last time that I shall speak in the House in 2024 — [ interruption . ] I be go home . Newcastle - under - Lyme need I and I be go home . how will we cope ? you ' ll cope just fine . I just want to wish all colleague here in our United Kingdom Parliament , our Commonwealth kith and kin , and , of course , the good people of Newcastle - under - Lyme , who I shall see tomorrow , a very happy Christmas and a peaceful , calm and tolerant new year . what a pleasure it be to follow so many positive speech on such a unifying issue . I can not help but observe that it be singularly appropriate that the amiable Minister should be make his last contribution before Christmas on this issue rather than the more fractious one early of the future of the Chagos island . right hon . and hon . member may recall that I speak on Second Reading in support of the very sensible change that the Bill will make to the status of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross . by give each organisation the status of a body corporate , the Bill ensure that the independence of their staff be sufficiently protect , and that the staff be able to continue with their work unhindered . the Bill give a clear and welcome signal that the UK be commit to support democratic institution in carry out their important and independent work . I have be encourage by the Minister ' s positive comment throughout the parliamentary debate regard the importance of safeguard the institutional independence of such organisation , and the same be true , indeed essential , for the office of the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament . I have hope , as I say on Second Reading , that the Bill would be expand to include the ISC , give the very clear read - across . unfortunately , it have not prove possible to extend the scope of the Bill to cover the ISC within the available timeframe , so I will not repeat my early comment . however , I hope that the Government have hear the strength of feeling on this issue , which be about uphold the commitment give to Parliament . it be about ensure that this House be able to hold secret organisation to account , without the independent staff who do that work be subject to undue pressure , inappropriate influence or improper interference . follow the recent appointment of the new Committee under its highly experienced Chairman , elect today by the other Committee member , Lord Beamish , formerly Kevan Jones MP , with whom I serve on the Committee for four year , I trust that the Government will find another suitable legislative vehicle to allow the important change that we be make to the cpa and the icrc to be apply to the ISC as well . give the very clear similarity between the two democratic institution cover by the Bill and the office of the ISC and its secretariat , I be confident that that measure would receive the same level of strong cross - party support that have rightly be achieve for this important Bill . I should declare that I be the treasurer and international representative of the cpa UK branch . the scale of the resentment , and indeed anger , among Commonwealth country at the previous structure of the cpa be sometimes not clear in this House . a body have be set up to consider alternative structure , in particular the cpa leave the UK and be base elsewhere , because of that concern and the many year that it have take to bring the issue forward . I be therefore very pleased to be able to go to the interim committee , which have be set up to consider alternative location for cpa International , and provide it with a copy of the Hansard report of the Second reading of the Bill , which I be grateful that the Minister and the fcdo bring forward in a timely fashion that tie in , deliberately or otherwise , with the Commonwealth parliamentary conference . give undertaking that have be give repeatedly by UK representative , there be a demand for evidence that that would be do . the unanimous support that the Bill achieve on Second Reading go a long way towards do that , open up the opportunity for cpa International to start to focus on many other issue . the issue of the cpa ' s structure and legal status have preoccupy it at an international level for many year . I attend the conference in Ghana last year and , at that conference , that be the dominant issue that take up virtually all the debate . this year , I be pleased that there be an excellent debate on climate change . we have a new international chair in Dr Christopher Kalila , who will visit London shortly . he have set out his wish to bring a renew sense of purpose to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , which will focus not so much on structure and constitutional issue as on bring together the Commonwealth parliamentary family on issue of importance across the Commonwealth . as the Minister know , we can not disguise the fact that there be difficult issue out there . the LGBT + issue remain extremely challenging , and we can not duck that . we have to look at way in which we can take that forward . Certain Commonwealth country be promote the criminalisation of not just member of the LGBT + community but their ally . that be not acceptable , and we have to take a stand and show leadership on it . we also have to acknowledge that other actor be at work . it will shock Labour Members that when I be in South Africa , I be condemn as a neo - colonialist by the Economic Freedom Fighters party , who wear fetch red boiler suit in Parliament to display that , in fact , they be ordinary work people and not part of the elite . they be not supportive of the Commonwealth or South Africa ' s role in it . we know Russia and China be active in many Commonwealth country , so we can not just take it as give that everybody will proceed on the basis that we would wish they to . but I , like other who have speak , regard the Commonwealth as a great force for good . there be huge opportunity at both parliamentary and governmental level to make a difference to those on the ground across the Commonwealth , and I hope that will be at the heart of the Government ' s approach . there be one or two people who I would like to thank and acknowledge , not least my former colleague Dame Maria Miller , who try to get the Bill through . whether the arrival of the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) be worth pause the Bill for might be a matter for debate on another day . I praise our former colleague Ian Liddell - Grainger . Ian would have do well in the diplomatic service , if he have choose to do so . he have to step in when the former chair of the cpa international die suddenly and there be a vacuum . Ian come in and steady the ship , as well as pursue the issue within this Parliament and identify its importance . of course , as have already be mention , our former colleague in this House , Stephen Twigg do a hugely important job as chief executive of cpa International . on his behalf , I ask the Minister to ensure that the subsequent order that have to be bring forward be do so in a timely fashion and that we can continue to confirm to the Commonwealth family the momentum behind the process . the international executive committee of the cpa be due to meet here in London in May , and it would be helpful if the other part of the process could have be complete by then . my final plea to the Minister be for the Government to make more use of the cpa by work more closely with it . as he have acknowledge , have be on many visit , the cpa UK — with member of this Parliament — have the capacity to act in a soft power role for the Government . as he and other know , mp can share and discuss thing that it be not necessarily possible for our Ministers or high commissioner to discuss . in fact , when we be in Ghana last year , we have good discussion around the LGBT + issue , which would not have be possible in more formal setting . I just want to say to the Minister that the point that the right hon . Gentleman have just make have support across the House . many Labour member want to see exactly the urgency and focus that he have just mention . I thank the hon . gentleman for that and for his wide comment . the cpa UK in particular be a good way of bring together colleague from across the House . I know that Mr Speaker fully endorse and support that . it have be a pleasure to attend many event over the year , both overseas and here , with colleague from across the House . to return to my point , I hope that the Minister and the fcdo in its current guise will endorse and embrace the cpa , and the opportunity to use its soft power , to take forward matter that be in the interest of everybody across the United Kingdom . I do not intend to speak again , but with the leave of the House , I will respond to some of the important question that be raise . it be good to see the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , who ask important question about the terrible situation for the hostage hold by Hamas . we want to see those hostage release . the icrc have call for the immediate release of the hostage and for access to they , it continue to request information on the hostage and their current health condition , and it continue to try to get access to the hostage as part of its mandate role to assess their welfare , pass message to family and provide medical and other support . however , for that to happen , all party to the conflict need to reach agreement , and the icrc have no means to compel they to do so . we understand that the icrc continue to meet representative of the family — as do the Government . we all want to see the hostage bring home . the hon . Lady also raise the important matter of funding for the icrc . in 2023 , the funding be £ 133 million , include £ 52 million core unrestricted funding . however , in 2024 , the UK be on track to provide over £ 165 million to the icrc . the current spending review be under way , so the total amount for 2025 and beyond be not confirm , but our intention be to continue structure future funding within a new multi - year business case , to give the icrc the predictability of income that it need to plan ahead for its crucial international humanitarian law and protection programme around the world , to which many member have refer . I join the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) in congratulate Lord Beamish on his new role . I note carefully the point that the right hon . Member make , and I have no doubt that he will continue to pursue they in the way he do . I thank all member who have contribute to Third Reading and the other debate on the Bill , include my hon . friend the Members for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) and for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , and the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) . I join the right hon . member in thank Stephen Twigg for his excellent work , particularly in relation to the cpa . I be glad that there have be agreement across the House on these issue . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass , with amendment . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , broadcast that the draft Local Digital Television Programme Services ( Amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 5 November , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . Internet Service Providers and Suicide - relate Content Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) the reason I have seek this Adjournment debate on internet service provider and suicide - relate content online arise from a terrible tragedy that happen in my constituency . my constituent Joe Nihill be age just 23 when he take his own life back in 2020 after access a horrific website . the purpose of that website be something that will alarm every Member of this House : it be dedicate to push people towards suicide . in fact , the website — which I will not name for reason of public safety — be the subject of a BBC investigation link it to more than 50 death in the UK , but it be link to many more death around the world . that BBC investigation , which take place a year ago , rightly identify multiple warning to the UK Government by coroner , and a number of police investigation . to be clear , this website push people to suicide by encourage suicide , and by actively attempt to dissuade they from seek mental health support or the support of their family and friend . it provide people with instruction on how to take their own life , it have link to where substance can be purchase , and it have even livestreame suicide . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate before the House . I speak to he before the debate ; this be an issue that need air , and he be do we all justice by do so . I be aware that some stream service such as Disney + will put disclaimer in place for graphic self - harm and suicide scene . Netflix take a step far : its programme " 13 reason why " remove its final episode , as it contain a highly graphic scene of suicide that many find distressing . do the hon . Member agree that stream service that screen scene of suicide must , as an industry standard , have a responsibility to consider the age range of their target audience ? what we be ask for tonight be for the Minister and this Government to take action . the hon . member be correct that everyone should exercise great moral responsibility when put stuff out there for people to see and be influence by . Joe Nihill ' s mother Catherine and his sister - in - law Melanie have run an inspire campaign in the wake of that tragedy to stop what happen to Joe back in April 2020 happen to other people . before he take his own life , Joe leave a note for his family , and in that note , he ask they to do everything they could to get this website take down so that other be not push down the same path as he . Catherine and Melanie have save life as a result of their intervention , personally prevent people from go down that path . what be need , though , be not the heroism of people such as Catherine and Melanie — it have save life , but it be not enough . what be need be a change in the law . of course , I welcome the advance make in this regard through the Online Safety Act 2023 , which I will turn to later . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure this important debate . my constituent David Parfett have be in the news speak about his son Tom , who sadly take his own life follow his visit to a very harmful site — quite possibly the same one that the hon . Gentleman be talk about — that promote how people can take their own life . he source poison that way and take his own life . there be 97 Britons who have lose their life after use this website . we need to take action on these very small but very harmful website . the Online Safety Act contain a provision for such website to be include in category 1 , the most highly regulated category , yet the illegal harm code publish yesterday do not include they . do the hon . Gentleman agree that this be a massive oversight , and that these website should be include in category 1 ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention , and I will mention her constituent ' s horrific experience later in my speech . I agree that there be much furth to go to ensure that the Online Safety Act do what it need to do to protect as many people as possible . of this website , Joe ' s sister - in - law Melanie say yesterday on social medium that " the problem with these website be that they be access by people at their most vulnerable and child . I ' m Joe ' s sister in law and I know Joe would still be here if he hadn ' t access that website because the method he use be only discuss there he wouldn ' t have know any other way . these site be run by people who prey on the vulnerable and say they too be go to end their life but 4 year later they be still here do the same thing push method . we be never go to end suicide , but we know that so many people can be help . " the BBC investigation identify one of the creator of the site , and track he down to his home in Huntsville , Alabama in the US . he be doorsteppe by the BBC reporter and he refuse to answer any question , but an account associate with this creator of the site issue defiant response about the UK ' s want to block the site . as part of its investigation a year ago , the BBC contact internet service provider , as do Joe ' s sister - in - law and his mother . Sky Broadband , for example , respond by say that it have block the site . Catherine and Melanie say at the time : " it ' s really important to we both , as it mean access be become limit to prevent other … find it — which be a step in the right direction . " the hon . Member mention her constituent David Parfett , and David ' s son Tom be 22 when he end his own life in 2021 after access this site . respond to Sky Broadband ' s decision as an internet service provider a year ago to block this site , Mr Parfett say : " it make I cry . it ' s pure relief , mix with anger that Tom may still be here if " it " have be regulate two year ago . my sole aim have be to stop other people be influence to take their own life . " respond to a defiant response from the site link to the founder of the website , Mr Parfett add : " these people encourage other to die and celebrate death " . in a statement at the time , Ofcom tell BBC News — this be just over a year ago — about the then Online Safety Bill : " if service don ' t comply , we ' ll have a broad range of enforcement power at our disposal to ensure they ' re hold accountable " . in a recent Westminster Hall debate , I intervene on the Minister about this , and I congratulate the internet service provider Sky and Three on take action to block access to this site . the Minister very helpfully welcome that intervention , and make the important point that " internet provider do not have to wait for the Act to be enact ; they can start make such change now . " she go on to say that " the Online Safety Act … be a landmark Act , but it be also imperfect . Ofcom ' s need to consult mean a long lead - in time ; although it be important to get these matter right , that can often feel frustrating . " — [ Official Report , 26 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 250WH . ] it be right that internet service provider do the right thing and take responsibility . just as Joe ' s family have be contact internet service provider , so have I . I very much welcome the fact that Three have respond to representation by block this site , which I will not name , as have Sky . other response be not quite as positive or as practical . Vodafone respond by say that the site be block " where customer have adult content filter enable " . BT respond by say that " our fixed network level broadband parental control setting for all age block the site " . the response from Virgin Media O2 concern I , and I want to put it on the record . it originally come back to I say that it would block the site if a court order tell it to . we need to be clear that it be not impressive to say , " if a court tell we to do something , we will do it . " a court order be a court order , and company have no choice other than to comply . Virgin Media O2 also refer to people change setting so that they can not access this site . Virgin Media O2 need to get real . somebody who be in the mindset of consider take their own life — somebody who be struggle to control that impulse — be not likely to disable the setting to stop themselves from look at it . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . I do not come here to speak , but he be discuss a key topic . as we move into Christmas , many of we be look forward to it , but it can be a low time for people . I worry about people access this content and content around eat disorder . the question for any internet service provider — hopefully they be watch this debate — be , what possible justification can they have for continue access to this site ? be they hide behind freedom of speech ? to I , there be a complete imbalance between the need to protect the right of these young people and the wide freedom of speech argument . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . this be not a freedom of speech issue ; this be a particular website link to the death of 50 people in our country and many more worldwide . in its reply , Virgin Media O2 also say that it be handle this matter through its partnership with the Internet Watch Foundation . I contact the internet Watch Foundation , and it reply that " we work with company to block child sexual abuse material specifically , so don ' t work on suicide relate content I be afraid " . it be therefore a poor reassurance from Virgin Media O2 to point to a partnership with an organisation that do great work , I be sure , but not in relation to this specific issue . I press Virgin Media o2 far , and it say : " we will review the specific website you raise with we and consider if further action should be take " . of course further action should be take . there be technological limit that sometimes mean a block can not be 100 % effective , but life can be save and will be save by restrict the number of people who access this site . I put on record that I have have no answer from ee . it should answer , and it should act . I encourage all internet service provider to do the right thing and , in whatever way they can , to block this specific site , which be link to 50 UK death , be the subject of police investigation , as we understand it , and be refer to in various coroner ' report . to give a sense of the scale of the challenge , Three UK have kindly provide I with datum today that show that it have block 10 , 025 attempt to access url that it have categorise under suicide and self - harm in the past month alone . three UK should be congratulate on what it have do . the fact that it can inform I of the number of attempt to access such site that it have block show why it be fundamentally necessary for other company to do the right thing . the site be host by Cloudflare , a major company with a good reputation and a corporate office in London . I draw the House ' s attention to a write question ask by the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) , who I email early about this . on 24 October 2023 , he ask a write question that be pass to the Home Office . it say : " to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department , whether her Department have hold recent discussion with Cloudflare on remove the website link to death by suicide report on by the BBC on 24 October 2023 . " he be ask what the then Government have do to pressure Cloudflare , which host this site , to take it down and disrupt its operation . no answer be give to that . he be still await a response to that question that be due an answer on 31 October 2023 . on 29 May 2024 , I write to the chief executive officer of Cloudflare , Matthew Prince , make it clear what have happen in this situation . I say : " the reason I be write to you today be because it appear your company be host this website and I would like to draw this to your attention so you can terminate your hosting of this site , to protect the public in both our country " — the USA and the UK — " and across the world . I know a successful company of over a decade ' s good standing like Cloudflare with an excellent reputation , would not wish to be associate with such harmful content , link to the death of many vulnerable people across the world . " I detail the whole matter , as I have detail it to the House , and then I put : " I would be very grateful if you look into this matter as a matter of urgency before any more vulnerable people be encourage or enable to harm themselves due to this website ' s activity . Cloudflare cease to host its website would not be a contravention of the principle of freedom of speech but a choice of a reputable and respected company not to give a platform to a website which have be link to the death of 50 people in the UK alone . such a decision by Cloudflare could well save life . " I say : " it should be note that both Sky Broadband and 3 mobile have block access to this website " . I get no response to that letter on a really serious matter . I hope not only that internet service provider will do the right thing , but that the major company Cloudflare will do the right thing and stop host this website . disrupt its operation in that way could save life , and I believe that it would save life . to conclude , I will ask the Minister , who have be do a fantastic job on these sensitive issue , a number of question . will she congratulate those internet service provider who have do the right thing in take action to block this site ? do she agree that those who have not should step up to save life ? will she assure I that once Ofcom ' s power be fully enact , the Online Safety Act 2023 will deal with this specific site regardless of the number of people who access it and whether those people be under or over 18 ? I find it frustrating when internet service provider get back to I and refer to child protection . my constituent Joe be 23 when he take his own life , and the constituent of the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) be 21 or 22 when he take his own life , so it be ridiculous to assume that harmful suicide - relate content of this type be only a danger to people under 18 . in relation to the question to the Home Office table on 24 October 2023 by the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington , will the Minister take action to ensure that her Department answer that question ? will she agree to the Government contact Cloudflare as the host of the site and raise concern and make representation ? we be talk about the death of 50 citizen in our country . I will finish my remark by again pay tribute to Catherine and Melanie , Joe ' s mother and sister - in - law . they have be navigate this complex , ever - change world of dangerous activity that go on online and their action have save life . they have be struggle to do so against great odd — it sometimes feel like a David and Goliath situation . I note that when people be , for example , illegally stream football match , action be take very quickly , yet this website , which be link to the death of 50 people , remain up there . I look forward to the Minister ' s response and thank member for attend the debate . I thank the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) for open the debate and all other colleague who have contribute . I know that this issue will be close to the heart of many of we , because it be about protect the safety of everyone , include our child and young people . this evening I want to talk about why this issue matter and what the Online Safety Act will do about it . first , I would like to share my deep sympathy with family and friend of Joe Nihill — a 23 - year - old man who end his life after find suicide - relate content online . unfortunately , story such as Joe ' s be not uncommon — we have hear about Tom , a 22 - year - old young man , who also die from suicide . as part of our work in online safety we speak to group that have campaign for year for a safe internet , often lead by bereaved family . I thank Joe ' s mother Catherine , his sister - in - law Melanie and all the bereaved family for their tireless work . we continue to listen to their expertise in this conversation . People who be think about end their life or hurt themselves might turn to the internet as a place of refuge . all too often , what they find instead be content encourage they not to seek help . that deluge of content have a real - world impact . suicide - relate internet use be a factor in around a quarter of death by suicide among people age 10 to 19 in the UK — at least 43 death a year . lot of research in this area focus on child , but it be important to recognise that suicide - relate internet use can be a factor in suicide in all age group . these harm be real , and tackle they must be a collective effort . on the hon . member ' s first point , we welcome effort by all company , include internet service provider , to tackle illegal content so that no more life be tragically lose to suicide . online safety form a key pillar of the Government ' s suicide prevention strategy . however , we be clear that the principal responsibility sit squarely with those who post such hateful content , and the site where it be allow to fester — site that , until now , have not be make to face the consequence . the Online Safety Act have be a long time come . a decade of delay have come at a tragic human cost , but change be on its way . on Monday , Ofcom publish its draft illegal harm code under the Online Safety Act , which be a step change . on the hon . member ' s second point , I can confirm that from next spring , for the first time , social media platform and search engine will have to look proactively for and take down illegal content . these code will apply to site big and small . if service do not comply they could be hit by massive fine , or Ofcom could , with the agreement of the court , use business disruption measure — court order that mean that third party have to withdraw their service or restrict or block access to non - compliant service in the UK . we have make intentionally encouraging or assist suicide a priority offence under the Act . that mean that all provider , no matter their size , will have to show that they be take step to stop their site be use for such content . the strong protection in the Act ' s framework be for child , so on the hon . member ' s third point , I assure he that under the draft child safety code , any site that allow content that promote self - harm , eat disorder or suicide will now have to use highly effective age limit to stop child from access such content . some site will face extra duty . we have lay the draft regulation set out the threshold condition for category 1 , 2A and 2b service under the Act . category 1 site be those that have the ability to spread content easily , quickly and widely . they will have to take down content if it go against their term of service , such as post that could encourage self - harm or eat disorder . they will also have to give adult user the tool to make it less likely they will see content that they do not want to see , or will alert they to the nature of potentially harmful content . a suicide forum will be unlikely to have term of service that restrict legal suicide content , and user of these site be unlikely to want to use tool that make it less likely they will see such content . however , that absolutely do not mean that such forum — what people call " small but risky " site — can go unnoticed . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) every site , whether it have five user or 500 million user , will have to proactively remove illegal content , such as content where there be prove intent of encourage someone to end their life . Ofcom have also set up a " small but risky " supervision taskforce to ensure that small forum comply with new measure , and it be ready to take enforcement action if they do not do so . the Government understand that just one person see this kind of content could mean one body harm , one life end , and one family leave grieve . the problem be that the site that the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) refer to — and there be many other like they — do not necessarily fall into the illegal category , although they still have extremely dangerous and harmful content . despite a cross - party vote in Parliament to include in the Online Safety Act these very small and very dangerous site in category 1 , there have be a proactive decision to leave they out of the illegal harm code , which be publish yesterday . can the Minister put on record exactly why that be ? why can these site not be include in that category ? there be all sort of content glamourise suicide , self - harm , eat disorder and other hate speech that be be promote by these small site . they should be regulate to a high level . base on research regard the likely impact of user number and functionality , category 1 be about easy , quick and wide dissemination of regulated user - generate content . as Melanie Dawes set out in her letter to the Secretary of State in September , Ofcom have establish a " small but risky " supervision task , as I mention , to manage and enforce compliance among small service . it have the power to impose significant penalty and , as I say , to take remedial action against non - compliant service . as the hon . member for Leeds East mention early , the Online Safety Act be one of the big step that Government have take on online safety , but it be imperfect . it be an iterative process , and it will be keep under review . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter , and for bring to our memory Joe Nihill and those like he , who turn to the internet for help and be meet with harm . on his final point , on the effective implementation of the Online Safety Act , we will continue to engage with all provider in this space . I be confident that these measure be a big step in make tech company play their part in wipe out those harm and make the internet a safe place for we all . the hon . Gentleman raise the matter of an outstanding question . I do not know whether he have go to the wrong Department , but I will commit to look up that question and ensure that he receive a response to it . with that , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and wish you and the whole House a very happy Christmas . question put and agree to . House adjourn .