prayer the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . hunt trophy ( Import Prohibition ) Bill Second read [ relevant document : e - petition 650300 , Ban import of hunt trophy of endangered animal . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . often in debate that have have a long genesis and be consider many time in the House , there be that hackneyed phrase : everything that need to be say have be say , but not everyone have say it . one can not even use that phrase now , because everyone have say what they need to say many time over . of course , that be not true in this case , not least because of the Bill table and pioneer very ably by the hon . member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) in the last session of Parliament . the clear and overwhelming view of this House be that the legislation should go forward . we all know that that Bill be subject to extend delay in the other House — without wish to cast aspersion , one could almost suggest delay tactic — and eventually time run out . I have to say that in this regard , even if in no other , I welcome the postponement of the general election until the autumn , as I hope that will give we more than adequate time , not only for the Bill to go through its stage in this House , but to ensure that the majority in the other place be not frustrate by the few who take a different view of it . in some way , what be happen down there be slightly reminiscent of the debate on the House of Lords in the early part of the last century , when the Lords be very much divide between the hedger and the ditcher — between those who accept that some reform be necessary and be therefore go to hedge their bet and allow reform to take place , and those who be go to die in the ditch . I hope very much that the hedger in this case triumph in the other House , so that this matter , which be very important not just to we but to the public , make progress . about this time last year , on Report , we reach somewhat of a compromise consensus on the Bill that leave this place and go to the Lords . be I right in think that the right hon . Gentleman have reintroduce the exact same Bill on which this House reach consensus last year ? the Bill technically do not stop hunt ; it simply stop the import into this country of any animal protect by the convention on international trade in endanger specie of wild fauna and flora . I thank the right hon . Lady for those comment , and for the work that she undertake as the Secretary of State to support this legislation . give that we wish to speed the progress of this legislation , I hope that colleague will not be prone to make long speech on this issue — indeed , possibly not even medium or short speech . subject to Madam Deputy Speaker , I intend to be very generous with my taking of intervention , because right hon . and hon . member want to ensure that the strong feeling of their constituent — which be make very clear every time this issue come up — be express in this House , so that those constituent know that Parliament be listen and undertake a course of action . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will just finish my comment to the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) before I take an intervention from my hon . friend from Bebington . the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal be absolutely right ; in the last Parliament , there be concession and discussion in Committee and a consensus be bring about , which be express very solidly . that be why I stress that this be the overwhelming view and message from this House to the other House , and it be regrettable that the Lords choose to ignore that . I understand that the other House have a role in revise legislation , particularly when there be deep division in this House , but that be not the case with this provision . it be absolutely clear that the overwhelming majority , include the overwhelming majority of our constituent — the figure be 86 % or so , but I will come back to that — be in support of the Bill . the hon . member for Crawley skilfully put it together , which show the bipartisan nature of the legislation . that be why it should go through today , and why it should be speed through its passage in both Houses of Parliament . the Bebington element of the Ellesmere Port constituency leave about 40 year ago , but I know my right hon . friend have be here a long time , so it probably be correct when he first enter this place . I want to make the point that he have just make — namely , that there be overwhelming public support for this measure . a number of constituent have contact I to express their support ; as he say , time and again survey show huge public demand for this . do he agree that it be important that we get the Bill through as swiftly as possible , so that those in the other place be able to do as much as they can as quickly as they can ? I make no apology for be regularly re - elect to this place over a number of decade . I be sure that my hon . friend speak effectively for his constituent in Ellesmere Port , and I suspect resident in Bebington probably hold similar view . that be important . sometimes issue come before the House that reflect view from certain part of the country — there be often argument that reflect the view of those in the metropolis , or the inner metropolis and the metropolitan elite — but this issue run across party , across class and across region . this be a universal view across the country . People want this country to have no part in this vile trade . my right hon . friend make an important point . like many hon . member , I have receive hundred of email from my constituent in Batley and Spen , who be appal at the vile trade of trophy hunting . do he agree that the Bill will not only prevent the importation of hunt trophy to the UK , but it will also send a powerful message to country around the world that hunt and kill endangered animal for trophy be always unacceptable , and that much more must be do to prevent that atrocious act wherever it occur ? I thank my hon . friend for that contribution , and for the work she have be undertake on this issue , quite apart from the Bill . she be absolutely right . other country , include Australia , France and Belgium — I think there be a couple of other — have already show the way by ban the trade in hunt trophy , and I hope that what we decide here will start to send a message to other country that this be an international movement . as we always realise , society and opinion evolve . this country have the Bullring in Birmingham , but we no long torment bull with dog in a public arena , or engage in bear baiting or cock fighting . we have move on from that and we need to move on from trophy hunting , not least because of the decline in specie . some of the argument relate very much to Africa , but I remind colleague — I pay tribute to the campaign by the Daily Express on this — that other region of the world be also involved , such as polar bear in Canada . the Bill demonstrate that the public do not want those magnificent creature to be slaughter not only for a bizarre form of pleasure , but to decorate people ' s house . they do not understand it . I congratulate my right hon . friend on bring this Bill forward . be it not the case that this legislation be support by campaigner in many country , include in Africa ? they love their animal and recognise that there be much more to be gain and it be much more profitable to keep these animal alive , rather than to allow this barbaric practice . my hon . friend be clearly speak on behalf of her constituent in Nottingham in express those strong view . in a number of programme yesterday , I point out that for the long - term sustainable future of tourism in these country , it be much well to have tourist shoot animal with camera rather than with rifle and crossbow . we need to look towards a future of sustainable specie and people be able to enjoy these animal not just through historical video from David Attenborough , but by visit themselves . that give rise to a great and long - term industry . I agree with everything that the right hon . Gentleman have say , as well as pay tribute to my Sussex colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) , for have persevere with this issue for so long . we should not be here ; this legislation should have go through already . I have be strike by the number of email I have have from my constituent about how important this matter be , so may I make a practical offer to member of the House of Lords who be minded to try to sabotage the Bill again ? I speak as the chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for photography , and we will have a special category in the exhibition this year for wildlife photo , so that those member can show how brave and manly they be by get up close with camera rather than gun . be that a deal ? I be not sure their knee could take it , but that be a further matter . I absolutely take the point that the hon . Gentleman make , and he be right about expand the scope so that people can show their skill in photography and show these magnificent creature in their natural environment . that be the record they should have — not some grisly trophy on the wall . I fully understand his point . I be also pleased that the hon . Gentleman raise the question about colleague be here today . I realise where we be in the electoral cycle , and that we have election everywhere across England and Wales in May . many colleague will therefore want to be out campaigning , so I thank colleague who be here today and hope they will be able to participate to put across their constituent ' view . I hope that constituent understand the effort that sometimes have to be make to be here on a Friday , give constituency pressure . I think it be the distressing case of the killing of Cecil the lion that alert many people to what be happen . I , too , have many constituent in Chipping Barnet who want this Bill to go through . that be why I be here today to support it . I thank the right hon . Lady for come in today , particularly because there be even more important election take place in her part of the country . she and I might take a slightly different view on they , but we be unite on this issue today . it be important that we stress once again the cross - party support for this important measure . I early highlight the role of the hon . member for Crawley , but I also pay tribute to many of those who play a part in keep this campaign go over many year . I think of my old friend , Bob Blizzard , the previous Member for Waveney . he be a comrade in the Labour Government Whips Office , back in the day before the 2010 election . he be a great friend and also a great enthusiast — both for jazz , but also very much for this cause . after he have leave Parliament , he encourage I to take up this issue , and his involvement in the campaign to ban trophy hunting be enormously important , along with the campaign ' s current director , Eduardo Gon ç alve , who be sadly not well ; I hope he will be cheer by the progress of the Bill later today . that be along with a number of celebrity . Sir Ranulph Fiennes have most notably be a stalwart in the campaign , as have Dr Jane Washington - Evans and Peter Egan , who initiate the e - petition . Lord Mancroft in the other place say , " what the Government be do today be pass socialist legislation , which be an odd thing for a Conservative Government to be do . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 12 September 2023 ; Vol . 832 , c . 957 . ] do my right hon . friend agree that this be not socialist legislation or conservative , liberal Democrat , Scottish National party or Plaid Cymru legislation ? this be humane and compassionate legislation . well , we be a broad church — if member on the Government Benches wish to join the cause of socialism , I welcome they . my hon . friend be absolutely right ; some issue divide we on non - political ground and member from different party end up in the same camp , and many of those issue be subject to free vote . this issue unite we , and it unite we with the british people . it should have be sort out age ago . it be really a shame that we have to be here today . I do not in any way resent it , because this be the right thing to do , but this legislation should already be on the statute book . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for give way , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) . today feel a bit like d é j à vu . we be back here again , but that send a message to our friend in the Lords that we will not give up . this legislation be the right thing to do . it be an abhorrent act to go to another country and kill an endangered animal in order to stick its head on a wall . it seem like something from a totally different century . the fact that we be back again , fight for the right cause and stand on the shoulder of the giant who have go before we send an important message to both the House of Lords and the country . I thank the hon . gentleman for that ; he express particularly well his point that trophy hunting be like something from a previous century . its time have pass . life move on and society move on . as I be describe , it be interesting in the interview I do that none of the commentator could respond when I ask , " how can you defend someone who want to travel a distance to shoot a giraffe , stand on its corpse and bring part of it back to this country ? " nobody seem to be able to answer that question . I be not say it be ever right to do that , but what be absolutely clear now be that the british public be certain that they do not want any part of it . my right hon . friend make a very valid point . some in favour of trophy hunting argue that it lend itself to support conservation in the country , which seem to I an entirely spurious argument . we have just see really promise figure on tiger ; there be 5 , 574 in the wild now . that be actually a tiny number ; there should be many thousand more , but it show that conservation effort can pay off if we focus on certain specie . trophy hunting be not about conservation . as my right hon . Friend say , it be about people shoot animal , take picture of themselves parade around the corpse and cut the animal ’ head off to take home . it be an abhorrent act . I absolutely agree . my hon . friend have be campaign on this in Bristol and here in Parliament for many year , from the day when we work in the Whips Office . she make a very strong point . the argument that say , " we be kill these animal in order to save they " be a bit like say , " we create a desert and call it peace . " I really do not buy into that and , importantly , neither do the british public . there have in the past be the argument that trophy hunting perform the role of cull for protect specie . we have always be able to negate that argument . there be time when there be a strategy for cull certain specie , but that be do on the basis of scientific fact rather than inhumane delight at the killing of animal . my right hon . friend make an important point . vastly excessive number , such as in certain part of this country where there be problem with deer , have an impact on woodland and the very proper campaign by the Government to reforest the country . in many case professional hunter do the cull , rather than have people fire crossbow at animal , which can then linger for several day . cecil the lion be mention . that case catch the attention and imagination of the british public , and it focus they on this issue and they make it clear that they do not want this practice to continue . my right hon . friend be absolutely right , but there be another factor to consider . the elephant take out be the big leader of the tribe . that have a significant effect on the gene pool . there be already some evidence that elephant with small tusk be survive and therefore , contrary to natural selection , change be take place to their appearance . also , some hunter do not seem to accept that , although some be solitary , many animal live in social structure . we see that with the death of Cecil the lion and we see with elephant that the social structure and cohesion of elephant herd be completely disrupt . that apply to other creature as well . hunting be to the detriment of gene selection and the development and maintenance of group of specie . I wholeheartedly support my right hon . friend ' s Bill . as in the title of the Bill , these people be after trophy . they will not select the weak in the herd or the pride . they will go for the one that look the most magnificent on their wall or wherever they want to display it . therefore , they be take out the strong , weaken the gene pool and have exactly the opposite effect on conservation . that be another reason why we need to send a strong message and support my right hon . friend ' s Bill . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the negative impact on the specie as a whole have to be consider , especially , as my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) say , because we be see real reduction in some specie . we be get below the critical mass necessary to sustain the genetic variation of a healthy specie . will the right hon . member give way ? I will just make a little progress , because I mention one of the campaign organisation and if I take intervention before I mention the other , they might think I be leave they out . I pay tribute to the many campaign that have maintain interest in this issue over the year , bring we — I hope — to the culmination today . Humane Society International , LionAid , four paw and bear Free have all play a prominent role in contact member and campaigning . there be also the coalition against trophy and canned hunting , which include Action for Primates , a - law , Animal Defenders International , Animal aid , Animal Interfaith Alliance , Catholic Concern for Animals , the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation — again , show the bipartisan nature of the support — International Wildlife Bond , Labour Animal Welfare Society , OneKind , People for Nature and Peace , protect African Lions , Quaker Concern for Animals , the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals , voice4lion , World Animal Protection , Wildlife Conservation Foundation and Zimbabwe Elephant Foundation . if I have miss anyone out , they can text I and I might include they in the wind - up . those organisation have work together successfully to highlight the issue , and we pay tribute to they . I totally agree with the right hon . member on that point . I support the Bill because I stand with many of my Falkirk constituent who have write to I on the issue . he mention many of the non - governmental organisation . I have be heavily involve with four paw in the UK , which have provide so much useful information to I on the subject over a long while . as we all know , this be a non - partisan issue . mp from all corner of the House have speak at great length and passionately on the totally incomprehensible nature of this brutal sport . enough talk — the time be to make this actually happen . do he agree that kill animal for sport be just not an acceptable practice ? the hon . Gentleman make that point strongly and stress once again the all - party support for the measure . I congratulate my right hon . friend on bring the Bill forward . I fully support it and will be vote for it today . he outline an impressive list of organisation . I do not think anybody have mention that apparently nine out of 10 of the british public support the ban , and that be something the House of Lords need to take note of . I have just be look through the list of email I have have on the subject from right across my constituency from Chorlton , Didsbury , Burnage and Withington . from all kind of different demographic group and area around the country , the british public be absolutely united in want this trade ban . I thank my hon . friend for that point and for highlight the level of support . of course , that be reinforce by the government themselves in January in their response to the petition instigate by Mr Peter Egan , which say : " we will continue work to deliver our manifesto commitment to ban the import of hunt trophy from endangered animal , which have overwhelming support from mps and the public … we recognise that this be an issue that the public feel very strongly about , and over 85 % of response to our consultation support further action . in the previous parliamentary session , the Government fully support the hunting Trophies Bill during its passage through Parliament . the Bill pass the House of Commons in March 2023 , with strong support from mps , but do not progress through Committee stage in the House of Lords . we will continue work to deliver this important manifesto commitment . " I hope the Minister will be able to back that up far in her contribution later on . that be reinforce in a reply at the end of January to a letter from a number of member across the House that the hon . member for Crawley organise , in which the Minister once again say that there be considerable debate , and that the Government support the Bill and share the hon . member ' s disappointment that it do not pass through the Commons . it be absolutely clear that whatever our other division , we be unite in support of a ban . there be one particular aspect that I want to highlight . we have talk a lot about hunting in the wild , but there be the even more deplorable business of so - call canned hunting , where animal , especially lion , be breed in an enclosure to be shoot by depraved individual who want a trophy . I pay tribute to Lord Ashcroft — again , someone with whom I might disagree on other issue — who have spend a considerable amount of time campaign on and instigate research into that appalling trade . I hope the Bill will help reduce the attraction to such trade . one firm involve in that dreadful trade advertise that " your hunt be never complete , until you receive your animal at home for you to reminisce and re - call your experience for the rest of your life . " do we really want to be associate with people who take that sort of attitude ? I have take a fair amount of time and a number of intervention . we could go on a lot long and in a lot more detail , but I recognise that the House will want to make progress , and that colleague will want to make what I hope will be brief contribution . will the right hon . Gentleman take we through the clause of the Bill ? clause 4 be incorporate as a result of the acceptance of one of my amendment when this Bill be last debate . clause 4 have not yet be explain , and I would be interested to know whether the right hon . Gentleman support it , and how he think it will work in practice . I thank the hon . Gentleman , who sit with I on the british - American Parliamentary Group ; we be joint officer . I consider he a parliamentary friend . I thank he for highlight the fact that the Bill be amend to take account of various view . it be carry forward without dissent in this House , and be forward to the Lords . that be precisely why the Bill should be vote on again , send back to the other House , and incorporate into the law of this land . it be a great privilege to follow the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) . I pay tribute to he , and to many other member from across this House who have work so hard , not only in support my Bill when it be before the House last year , but in campaigning to end the importation of hunt trophy — the body part of endanger specie — to this country . it have be a fantastic effort . as we have hear , the Bill enjoy the support of well over four fifth of the british public . indeed , there be a commitment to do what the Bill propose in a manifesto on which I stand for election four and a half year ago , and I understand that that commitment have be reflect in the manifesto of many other party represent in this House . last March , the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill that I introduce pass through this elect Chamber unanimously . as we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , we accept compromise amendment to make sure that it reflect as many view as possible . when it go to the other place , a very small minority of peer act discourteously in the way that they seek to block the legislation . that be why we have have to bring it back , and I be grateful to the right hon . member for Warley for do so . I mention the widespread support for this legislation in this country , but it be also extremely popular in other part of the world . Southern Africa have be mention . last year , I be in a number of southern african country where there be a clear desire among the majority of people to make sure that such legislation be enact in this country — and , as the right hon . Gentleman say , in other country as well . hunt for trophy be not a natural practice for people in southern Africa ; it be a colonial import to the continent from the time of colonisation . it be not native . the ending of this practice enjoy widespread support across the world . as the right hon . member for Warley say , the practice that we be discuss be not unique to Africa . claim have be make that somehow this be racist legislation that tell country around the world how to act and conduct their hunting policy . let we just remind ourselves that this Bill be import legislation ; it say that we in this country , by a clear majority , choose not to allow the importation of body part of endanger specie slaughter by hunter to Great Britain ; that be the territorial extent of this Bill and what it be design to do . nevertheless , it would send a strong signal that these practice be deeply damaging to conservation , as he eloquently say . damage be do to the gene pool by take out the top animal in a pride of lion , or the big tusker from a herd of elephant . that be begin to damage the ability of those animal to survive . let we remind ourselves of what this Bill be about . it be not about ban hunting , although I might have a view on that ; it be about protect endanger specie before it be too late . in my hon . friend ' s tour of Africa , do he have the opportunity to meet President Masisi of Botswana , who have describe western intervention as " a racist onslaught " ? he have say : " it ' s racism . they talk as if we be the grass the elephant eat . it startle I when people sit in the comfort of where they be and lecture we about the management of specie they don ' t have . " I have not meet the current President of Botswana , but I have meet the previous one , President Khama , on a number of occasion . he be passionate about end trophy hunting , because it be not typical african community who benefit from it , but the big industry that support it . Botswana be a good example , because in such country there be a huge difference of opinion over whether trophy hunting should go ahead . I pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for the work he have do on this issue . be not the answer to the point make by the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) that the Bill deal with the import of trophy to the UK , and say nothing about Botswana ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct . as I say , this be import legislation ; its territorial extent be Great Britain . it be about what we choose to import to this country , and a clear majority of the british people do not want the body part of endanger specie import here , because they care about these majestic specie and want they to continue to exist , for the sake of their child , grandchild and many generation to come . the idea that kill an endanger specie save an endangered species be absurd and should be call out for what it be . I , too , pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work that he have do on this issue . I reiterate that it be absurd that we be back here , because this House agree unanimously to take this Bill through . my constituent , who be very far away from many of the country in which this practice happen , be absolutely passionate about end it . however , as have be state , this Bill be not about the practice in those country ; it be about what we import to our country . if we do anything , we should make sure that we end this abhorrent act of import the carcase of endangered animal for people to stick on their wall . I be grateful to my hon . friend , who have be stalwart in support I in this campaign . he be absolutely right to remind we again about what the legislation do ; it be about what we choose to import or not to this country . the Bill apply to the importation of endanger specie ' body part , no matter where in the world the animal be hunt , so it would also prohibit the importation of trophy hunt from polar bear in Canada , as the right hon . member for Warley say . we do not hear people claim that we be be racist against the Canadians because we choose not to import endanger polar bear . we need to remind ourselves what the legislation do . I could speak with passion on this principle for hour , but I be conscious of parliamentary procedure , and I do not want to detain the Bill ' s passage any far . I once again call on hon . and right hon . member from across this elect House to send a clear message : we in this country choose not to import the body part of trophy - hunt endanger specie to Great Britain . all of we here be familiar with the term " trophy hunting " . we have come to recognise the evil act that those two harmless - sound word represent , but for those watching who may be less familiar with the term , animal welfare organisation such as SPCA International define it as " the hunting of … animal for sport , not for food . usually , the animal be stuff or a body part be keep for display . " they go on : " many hunter claim that trophy hunt isn ' t bad for animal . they say they be support animal conservation . the opposite be true , live animal support the population of their specie . " the League against Cruel Sports say : " we believe this multi - million pound industry be unjustifiable from an animal welfare point of view , but also for conservation , as it be responsible for endanger several specie around the world . " as for " sport " , that word be usually reserve for activity that revolve around the more positive aspect of life : fitness , healthy competition , teamwork , friendship , personal achievement , endeavour and endurance . not a single one of those could be attribute to an activity that involve an individual choose to photograph themselves grin triumphantly as they celebrate kill a once gentle and graceful giraffe , whose lifeless body now lie slump and twist at their foot , pump full of deadly bullet . my good friend the vet and animal welfare campaigner Dr Marc Abraham OBE agree . he say : " anyone with an ounce of compassion and kindness despair at see these image of cowardly , pathetic trophy hunter grin over their still - warm kill . exploit animal use as pathetic prop to maintain , even elevate , an online self - image of superiority , without any shred of guilt or conscience . " he describe those take part in these killing as have " a tragic lack of empathy and the high form of narcissism " , and say that " to be complicit in this most extreme , callous form of animal cruelty , plus then to harvest the body part and ship they back home to the UK , couldn ' t be a clear indicator of violent antisocial behaviour . " every member of this House will have have email and letter from , and meeting with , constituent who love and value animal , and loathe those who exploit , harm or kill they . there be so many british people who show such kindness — who campaign on behalf of animal charity , who volunteer , who make donation or fundraise , and who share a love for our planet and the incredible , breathtake wildlife that we be so fortunate to benefit from . how dare a few wealthy individual decide that they have the right to buy and cause the death of a lion , polar bear or elephant . alongside our constituent , there be those who use their fame and public platform to fight for the protection of animal . those campaigner include frequent visitor to Parliament whose passion be infectious — people such as the wonderful Peter Egan , friend to many in this place , who for year have fight hard to raise awareness and keep a ban on trophy hunting import at the top of mps ' agenda . Peter work with the fantastic campaigner Eduardo Goncalves , who we talk about early , and who be support by many across this House , include my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) , who have never give up fighting to protect animal during his time here . he step down at the next general election , but it be vital that we carry on his compassionate work . I absolutely pledge to do that to the good of my ability . no speech about animal welfare should leave out top animal champion Ricky Gervais . he could spend his day polish his many award , but instead he choose to condemn trophy hunting and shame those who consider the murder of animal to be a hobby . he support the ban and have call trophy hunt " humanity at its very bad " . the murder of animal for fun be also condemn by Chris Packham , Bill Bailey , Joanna Lumley and Sir Ranulph Fiennes , as well as mp and activist across the political divide and those with no political affiliation whatsoever . the legendary Jane Goodall say : " trophy hunting be utterly cruel , utterly unnecessary and utterly disastrous from a conservation perspective . it inflict pain and suffering on animal for no other reason than to boast of some ephemeral ' prowess ' . there be no material human need meet by it ; it be a hobby , pure and simple , and a deeply wrong one at that . " I urge colleague to support the Bill . I sincerely thank my right hon . friend the Member for Warley for bring it forward . I echo the word of the Humane Society and say that there be " no excuse " for trophy hunting , so let we get the ban do . the one thing that unite the House be that we all want to see successful conservation , but this Bill have always be about racism and neocolonialism . this Bill be question by science and by african country . if anybody , no matter how much they think they love animal , be think about write to I or contact I about trophy hunting , I insist that they seriously consider what african representative have say about both the Bill and the people who support it . over the last 22 year , 73 cite - list specie of animal have be import as hunt trophy . in the same period , the pet industry have trade in over 560 list specie . if hon . member care about cite , then perhaps the Bill should include pet as well . I do not believe anybody in the House intend to be racist , but this Bill cross the line . the Namibian Environment Minister , Pohamba Shifeta , have write to our Environment Secretary denounce the Bill as " regressive step towards neo - colonialism … your bill imply that your judgment supersede our insight and expertise … such unilateral action , make without consultation and collaboration with we … challenge the sovereignty of nation like Namibia . " we have talk about Botswana and I will quote what President Masisi say . it be worth remember that Botswana have 50 , 000 elephant ; it now have 130 , 000 elephant . the population increase year on year by about 5 , 000 elephant . some 400 trophy hunting licence be issue , but those licence have never all be take up . when President Masisi describe intervention in Africa ' s wildlife as " a racist onslaught " — on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be in the middle of a quote , but I think the President will forgive I for allow the hon . gentleman to intervene . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the House be perfectly entitle to make decision have consider all the fact , not just selective fact ? it can then decide that it do not want hunt trophy to be bring into this country , and it be perfectly entitle to make that decision . if I do not respect the House , I would not have bother to turn up today , so I do not think that be a valid point . we must consider how we would feel if Botswana , Namibia , Tanzania , Zambia , South Africa or Zimbabwe be legislate on what we do here . awkwardly for the hon . Gentleman , we be not ban trophy hunting in the UK . we be target cite - list specie , but we do not seem to care that there be 5 , 000 such specie , of which only a handful be actually relevant . to continue , the Namibian Environment Minister , Pohamba Shifeta , say this be " regressive step towards neo - colonialism " — whether it be mean that way or not . he go on to say , " your bill imply that your judgment supersede our insight " — those of the people who actually look after these animal . he say : " such unilateral action , make without consultation … challenge the sovereignty " . President Masisi say that this be " a racist onslaught " from people who " sit in the comfort of where they be and lecture we about the management of specie they don ' t have . " he be not just speak for himself . last November , the Times , the Telegraph and the Daily Mail report that ordinary Africans share the President ' s view . the paper quote from a survey of 4 , 000 people in Botswana , Malawi , Mozambique , Namibia , South Africa , Tanzania , Zambia and Zimbabwe who say that the UK legislation be " racist " and " neocolonial " . that be what they be say about we . although I respect the sovereignty of this House , I would not like it if they say thing like that about we , and I be astonish that the hon . Gentleman do . I do not read the Times very often , but the hon . Member say that the african community leader and conservationist he refer to rightly argue that it be not for we in the west to decide how they should manage their wildlife , and that that be why he can not endorse the Bill . I be not tell they how to manage their wildlife , or demand that they do it in a certain way . what I and many member in this House be say be that we do not want those disgusting trophy in this country . it be simple . the african country find it appal that british politician show no concern for the african life threaten by these animal . they be furious with the virtue - signal proposal , which lack scientific credibility . time and again , they return with the fact and they be completely ignore by hon . member in this debate . I will come on to what Oxford University say about the fact and figure give by the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) . this week , Botswana ' s Minister for Environment and Tourism , along with the high commissioner of Namibia , South Africa , Zambia and Botswana , come to this House to express their dissatisfaction with the Bill . this be significantly different from when my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) bring forward his Bill . there be no pushback from african country then . now we be see significant unhappiness from those country about the Bill . DEFRA Ministers and their labour shadow know that the high commissioner of the six african nation have jointly condemn the Bill as inexcusable meddling in Africa ' s democratic affair . there be in the UK ten of thousand of trophy hunting animal that the Bill do not cover . if the UK hate trophy hunting , it should ban it here first . I do not particularly want to see that , but that be what people in Africa feel . on Second reading of last year ' s Bill that propose such a ban , the Minister tell the Commons that its purpose be to reduce the " impossible pressure " on Africa ' s wildlife . other mp argue that the measure would save thousand of animal from the barbaric and savage african practice of legal hunting . indeed , the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) use other such adjective , but this be misleading . in fact , mps ' statement on Second Reading be analyse in an Oxford University study , and 70 % be deem to be factually incorrect . the Bill cover 6 , 000 specie and most of those be not threaten by trophy hunting . since 2000 , the UK have import about 1 % of the specie in the Bill — that be in 24 year . at least 20 specie that the UK import may be or be benefit from trophy hunting . Rural Africa welcome control legal hunting , as it help to manage excessive herd and rogue animal . furthermore , the fee that hunter pay bring significant amount of cash into remote area , where tourist and photo safaris can not get to . this create incentive for villager to refrain from poisoning , snare or shoot the animal . between 20 % and 100 % of concession fee usually go towards community land . african know that legal hunting reduce illegal hunting . it be the poaching , often fund by chinese criminal gang , that put at critical risk the survival of the specie that we all treasure . those brutal gang be indiscriminate in how many animal they kill . by contrast , legal hunting estate need and want to grow their herd to ensure the future of their business , and that be why they invest heavily in anti - poach patrol . they provide the armed guard that be vital to protect these animal from gruesome death . this legal hunting operate under strict quota , agree by national Governments and the international regulator . as a result , the herd have flourish . one paper find that in Kenya , where hunting have long be ban , there have be a dramatic fall in wildlife number . another study find that Botswana , which do ban hunting , see a horrific surge in human - wildlife conflict , with a 593 % increase in the discovery of elephant carcase . that disaster lead to a quick reversal of the ban . in 2016 , briefing from the International Union for Conservation of Nature state that " legal , well regulated trophy hunting program can , and do , play an important role in deliver benefit for both wildlife conservation and for the livelihood and wellbeing of indigenous and local community " . in a letter to the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , Namibia ' s Minister for Environment and Tourism say : " we be most concerned about how this propose law would undermine the finance of our Protected Areas and Conservancies … the lack of dedicated land and the protection which protect hunting pay for would critically undermine the survival of specie which we all love . " he go on to say : " the implication of this legislation , therefore , extend far beyond what have become know as ' trophy ' hunting , potentially impact the livelihood of rural community that rely on the revenue it generate . " a joint statement from southern African Government representative in the UK oppose the Bill . I think the hon . Gentleman indicate that only 1 % of trophy have come to this country . if it be only 1 % , enact this piece of legislation will not make that much difference to those country , will it ? it would make enough difference for the hon . gentleman to turn up for the debate , and for I to do so . it would also make enough difference for all the representative of those southern african country who care about the creature that we all purport to care about to say that the Bill be wrong . in fact , they say : " if income stream from trophy hunting be substantially reduce — as would be the outcome of this Bill — land would be abandon and subject to poach , or convert to less biodiversity - friendly use , such as agriculture and livestock production . local community who live near and with wildlife would suffer . " I think it be pretty clear that they do not think that the hon . Gentleman be right . the statement end : " Southern Africa ' s track record on conservation be world - lead , and we use trophy hunting to do it . let we continue to do so . " I recognise that that be awkward for Opposition Members who care about animal , but the people who be responsible for those animal be tell we that we be wrong . Botswana be the top country in the world for large animal , with Namibia second and Tanzania third . all three country have pay hunting , which finance protect space and armed guard for those animal . the country that be 123rd in the world — that be we — be , in the word of David Attenborough , one of " the most nature deplete country in the world " . we get rid of the last brown bear 1 , 000 year ago and our last wolf 264 year ago . Africa ' s human population have rise eightfold during our lifetime , cause immense pressure on the land available for wildlife . that mean that Africans increasingly come into conflict with big animal , which may eat their goat , threaten their child or trample their village . last year , Botswana ' s Minister for Environment and Tourism start an article publish in the Daily Mail by say : " last month , I attend the funeral of two villager in my homeland , Botswana . both be in their teen , tragically kill by charge wild buffalo as they travel to school and work . sadly , this be not an isolated incident . " she go on to say : " believe I , I do understand the horror people feel when they see a photograph of a trophy hunt person pose beside a recent kill . Lion killing in particular seem to cause outrage among Britons , especially after the notorious shooting of Cecil the lion by a US trophy hunter in Zimbabwe in 2015 . the widely circulate picture of Walter Palmer stand over Cecil ' s body become emblematic of man ' s destructive relationship with nature . reasonable though this reaction be , it be a knee - jerk one . it fail to acknowledge that for many Africans , trophy hunting be vital for the local population . it be a wildlife conservation measure that generate income use to combat illegal poaching , support community development and enhance habitat protection . sadly , " she say , we " all too often … focus solely on animal welfare at the expense of human life in Africa . " I have think carefully about the amendment that I intend to table . the Bill do not need to keep come back in the way in which the right hon . member for Warley have bring it back . my amendment will ensure that the Bill protect certain specie , while recognise that other country may be even well at manage conservation than we be . it will allow the Secretary of State to add or withdraw country from a list of those that issue hunt licence and show sufficient level of concern for conservation . any hunting trophy obtain under licence in a country that be on the list would be exempt from the ban . Kenya would not be on the list , as it do not allow hunting and its wildlife number , sadly , have decline ; but country that do allow it and be do a good job should be allow to continue . this Bill be be question by science and by african country , and there be no excuse for blunder into inadvertent racism . if we want Africa ' s big animal to survive into the future , I ask the House not to ignore the science and the misinformation that endanger the animal that we care the most about . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) , but I can not say that I agree with a single word of his speech . he quote David Attenborough , but David Attenborough have describe trophy hunting as " incomprehensible " and certainly do not support it . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) for present the Bill , to the hon . member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) for his early work , and to our depart friend Bob Blizzard , who do an enormous amount of work on this issue when he be a Member . I want to make this short contribution because I have the privilege of go on safari when my wife and I visit Africa . it be the trip of a lifetime . if I ever have the chance to go back and do it again I do not think it will be the same trip , because the first experience of see these magnificent beast in their own habitat be something you never forget . I want to impress that on the people who seek what I suppose be the " thrill " of murder these beast . within two hour of arrive at our camp , we be in a truck be take to look at the wildlife . as we sit in that open - sided truck , a lion walk past the bottom of it ; I could look down and see its back as it walk past I . I sit there and think , " what the hell be I do here ? " there be no cage around the truck , but you trust entirely the stranger you have just meet — the guide who take you around — while a wild beast only a couple of metre away walk calmly past the truck . the experience of get close to those animal be something never to be forget , but the most memorable experience be see , beside the Chobe river in Botswana , a herd of elephant feed at dusk , talk and grumble to one another as they eat the reed on the river bank . we get quite close to these huge beast , and feel entirely safe . indeed , we feel that we be privileged to be so close to they in their natural habitat . the idea that anyone would go into that environment with a gun and slaughter those animal be beyond I . if you want to experience wildlife , don ' t go murder it ; get up close to it and experience it in that way . I ask Members to imagine this for a minute . there be probably about a dozen people in our truck . if every one of we have a gun and go out slaughter these animal , the effect across the specie would be enormous , but when large number of we go to these country arm with camera rather than gun , the effect on their economy be enormous . we have hear argument today about be racist towards african country , but it be not just about african country . I have not hear anyone say we be be racist to Canadians by not want polar bear to be import . in the word of David Attenborough , this be incomprehensible . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be go to give way once , but I do not want to take up too much time . the canadian Government have not write to object — it be the african country that object to this . I hope that be clear from what I say early . I be sure it be , but the hunting fraternity only contribute to a very tiny bit of those country ' economy . what we seem to have hear today be an argument that without the enormous wealth of the people who go trophy hunting , conservation can not be afford . I just do not accept that that be a reasonable argument . of course , people can pay ; I would pay an enormous fee for the privilege of go to see these animal in their own habitat — and leave behind that fee in order to pay for conservation . there be way that we can contribute to conservation that way outstrip the money that member on the Conservative Benches have be talk about . let we be honest : the majority of the people who talk the Bill out in the other place be hereditary peer . that be the truth of it . the enormously privileged wealthy , call this idea , which have enormous support from all the people , socialist — well , because it have the support of the people , it have to be socialist , doesn ' t it ? it have to be socialist , because commoner want it ! how could the conservative party possibly support a measure that be so socialist in its fundamental objective ? it be complete nonsense , but there be a specie that perhaps we should be metaphorically hunt to extinction : the position of the hereditary peer and their ability to vote on law in our country . that be an outdated anachronism that have to come to an end , and the person who start that hunt will have my full backing . it be a pity that in a debate that should be about fact , the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) have allow his prejudice to come to the fore . I do not think that help his cause — indeed , my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) and I agree that it show that we be win the argument , because the hon . Gentleman and some of his colleague be have to resort to smear member of the other place . those Members table perfectly reasonable amendment ; the problem be that they run out of time for discussion . the previous Bill be amend in this place . that be only because my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire and I table a large number of amendment , which put pressure on the promoter of the Bill , my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) , and the Government to accept some of those amendment . one of the amendment be to add what be now clause 4 of the Bill , and another be to remove from the Bill a Henry VIII clause allow the subject matter to which the Bill would apply to be extend by statutory instrument without any proper consultation . this Bill be a well Bill than the one that be first introduce into this place by my hon . friend the Member for Crawley , but it be still very defective . certainly , I think it would be a much well bill if the amendment suggest by my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire in his excellent speech be to be incorporate into its text . rise — I will happily give way , if need be . I be most grateful — sorry , I be a little slow to intervene . as always , my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . the purpose of the amendment be to ensure that we take any risk of racism away from this legislation , because at the end of the day , we be unite in want well conservation . that be what unite we . the disagreement across the House be on the mean to the end . everybody want to have well conservation of endanger specie and wildlife in Africa . like the hon . member for Eltham , I have have the privilege of go on safari in Africa — indeed , in South Africa — on two separate occasion . one be in about 1984 , when it be pretty hard to find the wild animal we be look for in the game reserve . when I go again , about 18 month ago , there be an abundance of rhinos , giraffe , elephant , lion , leopard and so on . we have the most amazing experience . People use their camera , and they rely on the protection provide by the excellent team that look after and conserve that safari park or game reserve . we could see with our own eye that people be try to poach the animal that be be look after , and the cost of anti - poach measure be incredibly high . how will that cost be fund unless it be pay for by the people who be engage in the conservation ? one small mean by which they raise fund be by allow the collection of trophy , and almost all the trophy that be not keep in Africa be import into the United States , Spain or Germany . very few be bring into this country . whatever happen to this Bill , trophy hunting will continue — but it may not include the import of a small number of trophy into this country under a licensing and regulatory regime that have stand the test of time . instead of regulation , we will have an outright ban . why be we do that ? the 2021 impact assessment in respect of an early Bill say : " why be government intervention necessary ? government intervention will address public concern about import of hunt trophy from endangered animal . " essentially , the Government ' s impact assessment admit that this be about presentation , virtue signal and pander to public opinion , whether or not that public opinion be sound . let we take ourselves back to when the Government and Parliament take the view that we should abolish capital punishment . at that time , a vast majority of the population take the view that we should keep capital punishment . if we have apply the principle that be be apply to this Bill , we would still have capital punishment because it would " address public concern " about people be murder . we , in this House , need to rely on science and fact , rather than allow prejudice and ignorance to prevail , which be one of the reason why I hope the Bill will be improve , if it receive second Reading today . section 4 of the impact assessment , from paragraph 98 onwards , refer to the cost of this propose legislation , which be the point that my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire and I be seek to get across to the Government . the impact assessment say : " a 2019 letter from 130 researcher describe how in african country that practice trophy hunting , more land have be conserve under trophy hunting than under National Parks , with hunting area contribute to landscape connectivity . some argue that restrict the import / export of trophy from hunt risk land conversion and biodiversity loss , and other alternative area management strategy must be in place to promote conservation , protect endanger specie , and support livelihood . furthermore , many question remain on whether alternative such as wildlife tourism can effectively replace trophy hunting , especially in area with poor political and economic stability , and area with less aesthetic appeal . " that be not what I be say ; it be what the Government say about the cost of this legislation when they do their impact assessment , which go on to say : " wildlife conflict with local people can impose serious cost include cause physical harm and death , damage crop , predate livestock and compete with livestock for food . where wildlife provide few benefit to local people and / or impose substantial cost , animal be often kill for food , trade , or to remove problem animal . " that be a welcome recognition by the Government of some of the reality surround this subject , rather than the prejudice of people who have be ill inform by certain organisation . in paragraph 100 of the impact assessment , the Government also concede that : " evidence suggest that trophy hunting can provide a value for animal which incentivise their protection for the purpose of hunt rather than indiscriminate removal , e . g . land use change to agriculture . without trophy hunting , an income stream link to positive conservation outcome could be lose and other option need to be in place to address this conflict . " that be what the Government say in their impact assessment , so I hope we be go to hear from the Minister how they will address the concern that they recognise , if indeed they be still hell - bent on push this legislation through to try to get it on to the statute book . the Government also concede in their impact assessment — perhaps this be a point that my hon . friend the Minister could refer to — that : " a ban in the legal movement of animal trophy could have the unintended consequence , include increase the illegal trade in wildlife part which be unregulated . it could also reduce the amount of protein available to local community as meat be often a by - product of trophy hunt . after a hunting ban in 2014 in Botswana one village lose the provision of 154 tonne of meat , so less protein be available to the community . this result in an increase in illegal poaching and document decline in wildlife . " those be fact . what be the Government ' s response to the fact to which they refer in their own impact assessment in 2021 ? the issue of cost be discuss in paragraph 102 : " one of the major argument for hunt for trophy be that it provide financial benefit to local community , and without trophy hunt these benefit could be lose . however , the extent to which local community truly benefit be widely debate . " of course , that be the debate we be have today . let we not take a view that all the people who support this Bill be lover of animal and all the people who be against it despise animal . nobody could be a strong supporter of animal than I be . indeed , my wife and I be proud that we have produce a daughter who be now a veterinary surgeon . can one adduce any more evidence of the importance of inculcate into one ' s child a love of animal that their parent share ? let we have none of this nonsense suggest that this be not a vile activity and that those who be against this Bill should be subject to some sort of vilification . that be completely ridiculous . let I also refer to the letter to which my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire refer from the Namibian Association of Community Based Natural Resource Management Support Organisations . the letter be send to all british mp , and I be disappointed that more of my parliamentary colleague who will have see that letter be not present . one ask rhetorically , what have they do as a result of the point make in it ? Mr Louis say : " please do not regard Africans as be incapable of decide our domestic policy . the reason we have legal hunting be that it pay for protect land for our big animal . as our human population grow , it be crucial for our lion and elephant to have such space . our rhino also require armed guard to safeguard they from ruthless poaching gang finance by chinese criminal . when there be no guard , massive number of the animal get kill by these brutal gang . legal hunting pay for the guard and kill far few . " when we as a family be in South Africa , we see the consequence of what happen with rhino . to try to disincentivise the illegal poaching of rhino , the rhino be de - horn , but such be the value of rhino horn now , even from dead animal , because of ill - conceive ban on its use , rhino be now be poach just for that part of the horn that be no long visible , which be part of an extension of the head . that be a consequence — an unintended consequence , obviously — of the restriction on country export the rhino horn from dead animal . that be why this be a very nuanced debate , and I be not sure we be get as close to that today as their lordship be when they be debate the legislation on Report in their House . this very important letter from Maxi Louis go on to say : " the evidence for this be in the peer - review science which show how successful Africa ' s system be at defend our precious animal . People who have read this science — and back legal hunting — include the EU Commission " — I be not sure that be his strong argument — " and George Monbiot " , which be a strong argument . he continue : " so do the global regulator , the International Union for Conservation of Nature . we use legal hunting to manage our big animal because they be a mortal risk to we and our child . african life be at stake . you do not have any dangerous wild animal . Britain get rid of its last brown bear 1 , 000 year ago and its last wolf 264 year ago . " in his conclusion , he say that " wildlife in Africa be flourish . because of our management . we ask for no more virtue signal . it be arrogant , ignorant and racist . " I could not have put it well myself . that be why I be disappointed that the Government continue to pander to those who would fit into the description give by Maxi Louis . I turn now to the amendment that be make to the Bill introduce in the last Session by my hon . friend the Member for Crawley . in introduce this Bill today , the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) do not refer to that , except to say that that amendment be in the propose legislation , and that it show how we have pass a Bill to the other place as a result of a consensus . that be one interpretation of what happen on that Friday when we be debate amendment on Report . essentially what happen , as you may recall , Madam Deputy Speaker , be that there be a large number of amendment , and a deal be do whereby two of those amendment be accept , and all the other be reject . one new clause about set up an advisory board on hunt trophy be now in the Bill , and I wish to speak briefly about the importance of that and the background to it . who will decide on issue relate to hunt trophy ? I think we should have expertise , rather than people who be prejudiced . clause 4 state : " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must appoint an Advisory Board on hunt trophy ( " the Advisory Board " ) . ( 2 ) the Advisory Board appoint under subsection ( 1 ) may have up to three member . ( 3 ) the role of the Advisory Board be to advise the Secretary of State — ( a ) on any question relate to this Act which the Secretary of State may refer to the Committee ; ( b ) on any matter relate to the import to Great Britain of hunt trophy derive from specie of animal which appear to the Secretary of State to be , or to be likely to become , endanger . " that be an improvement on the original Bill , because it would require the Secretary of State to take advice , instead of just listen to the mob , so to speak , and I be pleased that that measure be in the Bill . clause 4 ( 4 ) state : " in appoint member of the Advisory Board , the Secretary of State must have regard to their expertise in matter relate to the import of hunt trophy . " one thing we discuss previously , which I do not think we have discuss today , be the extent of the Bill . the Bill extend to England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , but the prohibition on import apply only to import into Great Britain . why be that , and why do the right hon . Gentleman , in limit the Bill to import into Great Britain , think that that will help meet his objective ? do it not show that we be no long one nation of the United Kingdom , but that there will be a different regime in Northern Ireland , compare with the one that prevail in the rest of our country ? I hope the Minister will be able to explain why , if the Government be in favour of the Bill , and if they purport to be a Government for the whole United Kingdom , rather than just Great Britain , they be propose to restrict the import of hunt trophy into Great Britain and not into Northern Ireland . perhaps it have something to do with the fact that there be an open border between Northern Ireland and Ireland , and that Ireland be in the European Union , which have a much more benevolent approach to the import of hunt trophy than this Government seem to have . that important issue need to be address in the Bill , and I hope that if it go into Committee , we can ensure that its provision apply equally to all part of the United Kingdom . there be no need to speak at great length on something like this when the argument against the Bill be so strong , but we should not vilify those people who engage in conservation measure in the way that some have be seek to do . the proof of the pudding be in the eating . if we compare Kenya with other country in southern Africa , we see that Kenya ' s well - intend ban have be totally counterproductive , whereas in southern Africa there have be tremendous progress on the conservation of endanger specie . on a lateral point , be the collection of rare and endangered butterfly specie illegal in this country ? no , with very few exception . if we be free to pin butterfly to the wall or put they in display cabinet , do it suit we to preach to people in Africa about their conservation measure ? I think not . we talk about the importance of cull , which be essential to control the number of a species in the restricted area of a wildlife park . we cull in this country , particularly deer . that culling can include the use of rifle to shoot the deer that people think have the fine antler . those antler be keep as trophy . that be not my line of business at all , but I respect that other people might like to do that . it be all part of cull to ensure that we do not have too many deer to manage . this complex Bill be worthy of far detailed consideration , but I be worried that the Government may have a secret agenda : they may try to use the Parliament act on this legislation . I would be grateful if my hon . friend the Minister could assure I that under no circumstance will the Government seek to override the Parliament of this United Kingdom by seek to use the Parliament act on a Bill that be reject in the other House — not because it be vote down , but because not enough time be give for it . I be not sure that there be any precedent for the Parliament act be use when debate in the other place have be curtail through lack of time , the Bill have be bring back in the next session , and the Government ' s failure to provide time be use as a justification for use the Parliament act . I would be grateful if the Minister could respond to that point when she wind up the debate . finally , let I put on record that I be against this Bill have a second reading in its present form . hopefully , I will have the opportunity to vote that way later . I call the shadow Minister . I be pleased to speak on this important Bill . the importation to the UK of trophy produce during the barbaric sport of trophy hunting should have end a long time ago . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) for introduce the Bill , follow the early Bill from the hon . member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) . we need to get this sorted today , because we have have Warley and Crawley , and I be not sure there be another constituency that rhyme . I thank animal welfare charity nationwide , include four paw , Humane Society International , World Animal Protection and Ban Trophy Hunting . they have work tirelessly for year to ensure that this legislation be pass , and have produce the most helpful briefing note for this debate . I also pay tribute to the former President of Botswana , Ian Khama , who have be a tireless and passionate campaigner on these issue . however , for all the praise that our campaigner be due , we should not have need to be here debate this Bill today . the legislation should have be pass by this government long ago . we all know that member of the public , include in my constituency , overwhelmingly support the Bill . the wide public support for it be reflect in the fact that ban hunt trophy be both a 2019 conservative manifesto promise , as the hon . member for Crawley say , and a labour manifesto promise . why be this measure , promise by the Government , not already in law ? why do they fail to bring forward their own Bill ban trophy hunting , as they pledge to voter that they would ? give that an early private Member ' s Bill seek to implement a ban progress through the House last year , why be we here again debate an equivalent Bill ? it be because the Bill we debate last year be deliberately and wholly undemocratically derail by a small number of mostly hereditary conservative peer . as my hon . friend the Member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) point out , those peer ignore the will of the public , the welfare of animal and their own party ' s manifesto commitment , and use the amendment process as a block device . Labour member think that that be unacceptable , and our party want this long promise and long overdue legislation progress as soon as possible . when that Bill reach the House of Lords , no peer step forward to sponsor it . why do no labour peer do so ? I thank the hon . gentleman for point that out . obviously , there be issue go on in the other place that I be not party to at the time , so I be sorry , but I can not comment on his point . the hon . Lady keep refer disparagingly to hereditary peer , but be it not correct to say that a significant proportion of hereditary peer be elect to that House , unlike most of the other peer , who be appointee ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that . he say that I keep refer to hereditary peer , but I have refer to they once , in response to one of my colleague . it be fascinating that some conservative Members want to defend not only this completely outdated and barbaric practice of trophy hunting , but the procedure by which a few hereditary peer be elect among themselves , no member of the public have any say in the matter . may I help my hon . friend by say that in the previous Session , the Bill be introduce by a Conservative Member ? indeed , a Conservative Member of the House of Lords be go to take up that Bill , but someone else shoot in and grab it beforehand , with a bit of sleight of hand . if the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) want to defend that sort of jiggery pokery , he be welcome to . order . I be anxious for we to come back to the Bill before we , as oppose to discuss a Bill that we might deal with later today about hereditary peer . thank you for clarify that , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Warley for set out what happen in the Lords , but I will move on . the Bill will prevent people from bring into Great Britain hunt trophy from the specie list in annex A , which be the most endangered specie , or annex B , which be specie threaten by commercial trade , of the principal wildlife trade regulation . those list largely correspond to equivalent in cite , which be an important international agreement protect endangered plant and animal , and the UK be a party to it . the Bill also create an advisory board on hunt trophy , as some Conservative Members highlight , which will advise the Secretary of State on any issue relate to the legislation , or any matter relate to the import to Great Britain of hunt trophy derive from specie that be , or be likely to become , endanger . I can not emphasise enough how crucial this legislation be . trophy hunting be not only barbaric , but wholly unnecessary . in this country , as in most other , we have long recognise that animal should not be subject to unnecessary suffering . that principle be reflect domestically in our Animal Welfare Act 2006 , and align with our understanding , support by animal welfare science and enshrine in legislation , that animal be sentient being . as such , they deserve to be treat with dignity and humanity . there be nothing dignified or humane about the sport of trophy hunting . it involve kill innocent animal for the sole purpose of turn their body into trophy . the animal often experience immense pain , fear and distress in the moment before they die . some may be shoot by inexperienced hunter use less efficient weapon , such as crossbow or spear , which do not deliver a rapid death . we see this with Cecil the lion in 2015 , who suffer for several hour follow his wounding by crossbow in a beautiful part of southern Africa before he be finally put out of his misery . his death quite rightly cause outrage around the world , include here in Britain . other practice that trophy hunting can involve raise further welfare concern . I be horrify to learn of the practice of canned hunting — the captive wildlife farming of animal for hunting . it often involve inflict extremely poor welfare condition on the captive wild animal , mostly lion , who may have to suffer from unsatisfactory enclosure , a lack of enrichment , and insufficient provision of shelter and vet treatment , all so that part of their body may eventually become somebody ' s trophy . let we not forget the negative impact that trophy hunting can have on other animal , such as the harm to offspring , who may be unable to survive on their own after their parent be leave for dead . that be highlight early , as be the weakening of the gene pool . these be important factor to consider . trophy hunting can have a negative impact on wildlife . trophy hunter tend to target the world ' s most iconic animal , include endangered wild animal specie such as lion , polar bear , giraffe and rhino . hunter selfishly kill these vulnerable animal so that they can display their body part as some sort of perverse prize . World Animal Protection note that british hunter have bring home approximately 25 , 000 hunt trophy since the 1980 , and approximately 5 , 000 of these come from specie at risk of extinction . the public be right to find this absolutely abhorrent , and to want to increase the protection afford to these specie , which be already under pressure from habitat loss , climate change , poach and the illegal wildlife trade , by pass this important legislation . my hon . friend the Member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) eloquently outline those issue early . let we not forget how unnecessary these horror be . compare with the overall revenue that local economy gain from tourism , income from trophy hunting be insignificant . a 2017 report by economist at large that analyse eight african country find that while overall tourism be between 2 . 8 % and 5 . 1 % of gdp in the eight country , the total economic contribution of trophy hunter be , at most , about 0 . 03 % of GDP , in stark contrast to the claim make by some conservative Members . there be more ethical and sustainable alternative to trophy hunting for conservation . a recent study show that 84 % of previous or potential tourist to South Africa , include those visit from within Africa , would be willing to pay a daily " lion protection fee " for wildlife conservation . photographic safaris , which , as the Born Free Foundation put it , involve shoot an animal " with a camera , not a gun " , be another welfare - friendly alternative to hunt trophy . these alternative activity have the potential to generate income equalling or even exceed the income generate from trophy hunting without cause pain and suffering to wild animal . my hon . friend the Member for Eltham highlight that when he mention the amazing experience he have on his photographic safari . support global effort to promote humane tourism be consistent with recent legislation pass in this House , namely the Animals ( Low - Welfare Activities Abroad ) Act 2023 . however , I note that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be yet to even consult on the activate regulation that be necessary for the 2023 Act to have any impact , or to give any indication of when such consultation will begin . I encourage he to do so as a matter of urgency , because wild animal deserve protection , and that require regulatory action . on this and so many animal welfare issue , the Government be let animal and the public down by fail to act . as the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , point out last Friday when another private Member ' s Bill contain a broken conservative party promise be before the House , the Government have completely abandon an extraordinary number of the animal welfare pledge they have make . the Government like to tell the public that they have progress world - lead animal welfare commitment , but Compassion in World Farming rank the UK only ninth among european country by percentage of cage - free farm animal , trail Luxembourg , Austria , Sweden , the Netherlands , Germany , Slovenia , Denmark and Belgium . although the Government have announce their support for private member ' Bills on animal welfare issue put forward by their Back - Bench mps since they abandon the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , that be not leadership . I gently say to the Minister that if the Government really care about animal and wish to honour the enormous public interest in pass strong law for animal , they would put forward their own promise measure . until they do so , Labour will keep remind the Government of their broken promise and put forward private member ' bill like this one , which we hope will become law as soon as possible . we have see in the House today a near unanimous show of support . this be not racist , colonial legislation ; it be UK law govern what come into the UK . that be our right , and the Bill seek to exercise that , so let ' s get on with it and get it do . many member on both side of the House have be eagerly await the passing of this piece of legislation , as have many outside campaigner who have work tirelessly on the issue and many of our constituent . I have have many email on the issue in Taunton Deane . I thank the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) for introduce the Bill and all those who have take part in the debate , not least my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) , who do such a sterling job just one year ago . I think he will agree that we have a lively debate then , and we have have a similarly lively debate today . I want to list some of the colleague from both side of the House who have speak eloquently . my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) make the point well about take photograph of these wonderful creature . there be intervention by my right hon . friend the Members for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) and for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) and my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) , but there have also be move speech , in particular from my hon . friend the Member for Crawley . of course , many Opposition speaker have join in as well . it be clear that the issue of hunt trophy continue to divide opinion . we have witness some of that today from my hon . friend the Members for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) and for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) . there be disagreement over the scientific , social , economic , moral and ethical rationale for trophy hunting , and that will no doubt continue for some time . there be those who point to evidence of the potential benefit of well - manage hunting — we hear a great deal about that from my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire . we also hear the other side of the argument , with evidence of the harm cause by poor practice . I want to stress something critical : we face the triple planetary crisis of biodiversity loss , climate change and pollution . those be the great threat we face globally and , as the nature Minister , they be in my inbox every day . I be only too aware of all those threat and of how we need to tackle they . about 1 million animal and plant specie face extinction . much of that have occur very recently — in our lifetime . the abundance , diversity and connectivity of specie be decline fast than at any time in human history , and that include the specie target for trophy hunting . we all know and love they : elephant , rhino , lion , leopard and polar bear , to name just a handful . there be those who argue that ban the import of trophy from those animal will do nothing to improve their conservation status , and I be certainly listen to my hon . friend on that , but we have to ask ourselves whether import into Great Britain trophy from endangered animal help to tackle biodiversity loss . do this trade really help to secure a sustainable future for specie on the brink of extinction ? many animal be under terrible threat anyway because their habitat be shrink . that be happen for a range of social and economic reason , but climate change be certainly part of it . ultimately , the aim of the Bill be to ensure that import of hunt trophy to Great Britain do not put additional pressure on already threaten specie . that be what should concentrate our mind , and that be why I be pleased to confirm that the Government will support the Bill . in do so , we signal our continue determination to fulfil our manifesto commitment in this regard . I have hear the argument that a ban will have implication for local community and conservation effort globally , which be definitely something we must consider carefully . we must be alive to the unintended consequence . however , the Bill be about import into Great Britain , as many have say in the debate — my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal remind we of that . this be about listen to the british public . there be a clear , strong and consistent message that we need to bring to an end the import of endanger animal take as hunt trophy . the wind of change be blow we in that direction , and a number of country have already put restriction in place . will my hon . friend give way ? I be not go to take any intervention , because member have make so many already and we do not want to restrict the debate on the ultra low emission zone , but I will refer to some of the point that my hon . Friend rightly raise in a moment . it be important to recognise that the import ban will not prevent a UK resident or citizen from participate in hunting while they be overseas . trophy hunting can and will continue around the world . it be right that each country should be able to decide how good to manage its own wildlife , and the Bill do not change that . that point be highlight vociferously by my hon . friend the Members for Christchurch and for North Herefordshire , but it have to be remember that we be not prevent that . country around the world on both side of the debate have have regular opportunity to discuss this issue and raise their point . indeed , we have have letter from the president of Botswana and Namibia — the high commissioner be write to just yesterday . it be important to keep in mind the contribution that the UK trade in hunt trophy make . annual import of hunt trophy to the UK be very few in number — on average , there have be 73 a year over the last 10 year . even so , it be essential that we play our part to ensure that community around the world benefit from conserve the wildlife that they live alongside . that be reflect in the agreement of the hugely important global biodiversity framework . there be now a strong and essential focus on how , as a global community , we finance biodiversity , conservation and restoration work . member will be aware of just how much the Government be do on that front , with our huge £ 93 million Darwin initiative and our £ 30 million Darwin Plus initiative . all of that focus on biodiversity and conservation , work with local and indigenous people . penultimately , let I run through some of the provision in the Bill . the Bill will ban the import of hunt trophy from specific specie , with the explicit aim of ensure that import into Great Britain do not place unnecessary pressure on specie that be at risk . for those specie , an import ban without exemption will be the most effective protection , as it will provide clarity and address the conservation concern arise from trophy hunting . clause 1 and 2 make provision for the import ban , which will cover trophy bring into Great Britain from animal hunt after the legislation come into force — there be strict , clear line about anything that happen before that . the definition of a hunting trophy in clause 1 be : " the body of an animal , or a readily recognisable part or derivative of an animal , that … be obtain … through hunting … for the hunter ' s personal use " . that be how hunt trophy be define in our current control under cite . clause 2 apply the import ban to all specie list in annexe A and b of the wildlife trade regulation . the wildlife trade regulation implement the convention on international trade in endanger specie — cite — in Great Britain . annexe a and B be broadly equivalent to appendice I and II of the convention , and include specie that the global community have agree to protect through trade restriction due to their conservation status . they cover a great number of specie threaten by international trade , such as big cat , all bear , all primate , hippos , rhino and elephant . as a result , the Bill will end the permit system for import of hunt trophy derive from those specie . there will be no provision for exemption to the import ban . clause 3 be about movement from Northern Ireland . the clause state clearly that the import ban will " not apply in relation to the removal of qualify Northern Ireland good from Northern Ireland to Great Britain . " clause 4 , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch , establish an advisory board on hunt trophy . the clause state : " the role of the Advisory Board be to advise the Secretary of State on any question relate to this Act " . clause 5 simply cover the Bill ' s extent , application , commencement and short title . let I quickly discuss the impact assessment , as I do not allow any intervention . we hear some view about the impact assessment and what the Government will do about it , but there be two side to that . the impact assessment present both side of the debate , but it also highlight that trophy hunting can lead to population decline and that over - hunting threaten more than 30 % of endanger mammal specie , accord to the International Union for Conservation of Nature . the impact assessment also note that trophy hunt quota be inappropriate , unscientific , excessive and over - reliant on opinion , and that the management of such quota be base on poor - quality datum . similarly , a report by the University of Oxford find that the damaging effect of the unsustainable trade in hunting can extend beyond hunt area . I hope that I have answer some of the question . this have be a very positive and lively debate on both side of the House . I thank the right hon . member for Warley for bring the Bill back to the House , and reconfirm that the Government be fully commit to support it . with the leave of the House , I call John Spellar to wind up . object ! in that case , I will put the question . question put , that the Bill be now read a second time . the House proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm investigate the delay in the Lobby ? Fleur Anderson Stuart Andrew Jon Ashworth Saqib Bhatti Lyn Brown Nick Brown Felicity Buchan Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Jeremy Corbyn Mims Davies Alex Davies - Jones Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Mark Eastwood Clive Efford Natalie Elphicke David Evennett Vicky Foxcroft Mike Freer Louie French Lilian Greenwood Robert Halfon Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Philip Hollobone Gareth Johnson Ruth Jones Mike Kane Kim Leadbeater Justin Madders Jerome Mayhew John McNally Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Johnny Mercer Amanda Milling Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Rebecca Pow Dean Russell Henry Smith Jeff Smith John Spellar Michael Tomlinson Steve Tuckwell Theresa Villiers Mark Fletcher Mike Wood Bill Wiggin Christopher Chope the House have divide : Ayes 49 , Noes 0 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Greater London Low Emission Zone Charging ( Amendment ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Bill would overturn the expansion of the ULEZ scheme , simply because it be a cruel , cruel form of taxation . it be particularly cruel to the poor in society , hit heavily those people who have old motor vehicle that they can not afford to upgrade , with or without a scrappage scheme . it be also very unfair on business owner — especially those in outer London , who lose out on business that they would otherwise have secure from people travel in from neighbouring county to purchase their good — and on people who live outside London , who have no say in who the London Mayor be . the border between London and the home county be not neat . People in my constituency live in Kent , but some of they have to go into London just to exit their road . the border straddle some road . it be a border that can not be avoid , and the Mayor of London know that . my hon . friend and parliamentary neighbour be make an impressive start . he and I share road in Crayford and Dartford where people live on different side of the road pay different taxis . some people , such as gardener and plumber , travel regularly from Dartford to Bexleyheath and Crayford for work , and they can not afford this . it be so unfair , especially as it be not in the Mayor ' s manifesto when he be last elect . that be an absolutely valid point , but I would go far . about 50 % of police officer in the Metropolitan police area live outside London and commute in , and the percentage for all emergency worker be probably about the same . these be the people who londoner rely on the most — they be vital to Londoners — but if their vehicle be not ulez - compliant , they be hit with £ 12 . 50 every single time they go to work . even bad , those do night shift have to pay on the way in and on the way out again , because at 3 am there might be no public transport . for emergency worker to be hit with £ 25 just for do a night shift be totally and utterly wrong . my hon . friend be make a great speech . as he know , he have my full support . do he agree that today we will see whose side Labour member be on ? be they go to talk the Bill out , or be they go to back those emergency service worker and other in Bexley who want to be rid of ULEZ ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work that he have do in this respect . he be entirely right : we will see today whether Labour member be in favour of the worker or in favour of Sadiq Khan . I be follow the hon . Gentleman ' s argument with interest . in Bristol we have experience the first year of a clean air zone , which be actually impose on we as a requirement by the then Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , because the Government have be take to court by ClientEarth for be in breach of air pollution limit and therefore insist that we should adopt the scheme in Bristol . if I have a chance to speak later , I will comment on how successful it be , but in any case that seem slightly at odd with the hon . Gentleman ' s argument about local autonomy . I be grateful for that intervention , because it give I an opportunity to smash the myth that the expansion of the ULEZ scheme have anything whatsoever to do with air pollution . if it be about air pollution , the Mayor of London would ban motor vehicle from go into London , but he do not want to ban they ; he want to make money out of they . if those motorist give the Mayor £ 12 . 50 , they can drive all day long in London . he do not give a damn . take my constituency in Dartford , for example : many people who previously use the Blackwall tunnel with ULEZ non - compliant vehicle be now have to use the Dartford crossing to get across the Thames . it be add to pollution in area such as Dartford , not remove it . do my hon . friend remember the letter I write in 2021 , which be sign by many member present today , include himself ? Sadiq Khan , the Mayor of London , want to put a charge — a border tax , as I call it — on people drive into London , which have nothing to do with the environment at that time . he fail to do so after pressure be put on ; a little bit later — shock horror — he put the same thing out but with an environmental tinge to it . it be greenwashe , and it be make people in place such as Watford who work so hard pay extra just to go to work . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I pay tribute to the work he have do on this issue for some time . the approach to the border tax , as he call it , highlight the fact that the Mayor of London be hellbent on bring in a system whereby he could make money out of car . originally , he want to make money out of every car ; when he be stop from do that , he decide to make money out of certain car only . that be his plan b . my constituent be equally adversely affect , and would benefit from my hon . friend ' s Bill . can he answer the question of why the Government themselves do not use the power available to they to ban this extension of ULEZ ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for intervene . as the law stand at the moment , the Government do not have the power to overturn the ULEZ expansion . as a consequence , I have introduce this Bill , which would give the Government the power to overturn the expansion . I be really grateful to the Minister for his work and effort on this issue , and for the fact that the Government now support the Bill . I therefore hope that it will be successful . we have hear about the scrappage scheme , but if we actually look into it , we see that it be up to £ 2 , 000 per vehicle — good luck get a vehicle that be ULEZ compliant for up to £ 2 , 000 . we be also hear that people be find it very difficult to actually get their £ 2 , 000 , or up to £ 2 , 000 , from Transport for London ; there have be a lot of delay . People have say , " why don ' t we expand the scrappage scheme right down to Dartford and beyond ? " well , where do we draw the line if we be go to increase the scrappage area ? should it go up to the midland or down to the west country ? it could cost the taxpayer of this country billion of pound , simply because the Mayor of London be unable to organise his finance . I strongly support my hon . friend ' s Bill , because this be an unjust charge . do he agree that some of the victim of the charge be local high street business in outer London , whose customer from beyond the London border be reluctant to come in because they may have to pay the charge ? I pay tribute to my right hon . friend , who have be a real champion of this issue for her constituent in Barnet . she be absolutely right : people outside of London like to travel into London to use the dry cleaner , fish and chip shop , sweet shop and so on , but that no long happen if their vehicle be not ULEZ compliant . I have be listen to the hon . Gentleman very carefully . he keep talk about money - making as if someone be make a profit , but that money go to London ' s service . he be a Dartford MP , from outside of London ; how do he suggest that my constituent in London , who be write to I in large number about the state of the pothole on our road , can afford to pay for his constituent to drive through place such as my constituency on their way to the Blackwall tunnel ? he be try to deny Londoners the right to have decent road . I be rather surprised that the hon . Member be stand up in support of what the Mayor of London have do with the ULEZ scheme . I think that if he look at his inbox carefully , he would see that most of his constituent — particularly the poor in his constituency — do not like the fact that they be have to pay £ 12 . 50 just to use their motor vehicle . I do not feel that this be something on which his constituent support he . I be a bit concerned that the hon . Gentleman have be look into my email — I think I will have a word with the parliamentary estate manager about that . perhaps the reason I be stand up today be that not too many people have contact I about ULEZ since it have be introduce ; what they be contact I about be the state of our road . the pothole on our road be symbolic of the Conservatives ' disastrous management of our public service over the past 14 year , and everyone be complain about they . maybe the hon . Member have an oasis in south London , where everyone around the outside hate the ULEZ scheme but in Eltham they love it , but I would be very surprised . I gently remind he that most of the road in Eltham be maintain by Greenwich ' s Labour council , which should take its share of responsibility for the state of the road . my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) mention the " border charge " . the Mayor launch a consultation that show that people reject the expansion — it be absolutely clear they do not want it . there be a question mark over how that consultation be handle , but it be clear that the majority of people do not want the expansion , yet the Mayor still go ahead with it . when he stand to be Mayor , his manifesto do not mention the fact that he want to expand the ULEZ scheme right to the border , so he have no mandate from his manifesto . his transport plan have no mention of the expansion either , so the Mayor of London do not have a mandate for expand the ULEZ scheme . I have hear people say , " well , this be interfere with devolution . it be undermine devolution . " — [ interruption . ] I would say the opposite . it be the action of the London Mayor that be undermine devolution . the whole point of devolution be to bequeath the power to make law to Mayors , in this example , and for those elect mayor to use the power for the people they represent . it be not devolution when those power have a profound impact on people who do not come from the area that Mayor represent . the Mayor of London ' s action have have a huge impact on the life of people live in Dartford , who do not have the power to vote he in or out . it be taxation without representation , or any kind of accountability whatsoever . frankly , it be devolution at its bad , which be why it be right that central government intervene over this matter . devolve power be be take way beyond intended and they be impact people who be not able to vote in that area . I predict that this be the beginning , not the end . if Sadiq Khan win the election for London Mayor in May , as sure as night follow day he will change the criterion for vehicle to be ULEZ compliant until we get to the stage where every single petrol or diesel car be impact by the expansion . People watch this debate at home — if they have nothing well to do on a Friday afternoon — may be sit pretty , think , " this do not affect I because my car be ULEZ compliant ; it have nothing to do with I . " I say they should be very aware of what happen at the mayoral election . as sure as night follow day , the Mayor of London will change the goal post and ensure that all motor vehicle will be hit by the ULEZ expansion . on that point , do my hon . friend agree that it be clear that what the Mayor of London say and what he do be very different ? he previously rule out expand ULEZ , and then he do it . my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be typical of what have happen throughout the debate about ULEZ . in July last year , the leader of the Labour party say that ULEZ expansion be a wonderful thing . come the by - election in Uxbridge and South Ruislip , he say , " oh no , we have get to think again over this one . I ' m not quite sure if we get this one right . " just this week , he say the ULEZ expansion be a great thing . we have have enormous dithering from the leader of the Labour party over this issue , and the Mayor of London be take full advantage of that fact . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . we have a Westminster Hall debate , at which many colleague be present . unfortunately , not a single labour Back Bencher turn up . it be pitiful and it highlight the Labour party ' s mismanagement of the issue . we have the mayoral election come up in May , and the conservative candidate , Susan Hall , have pledge to overturn the ULEZ expansion on day one . the quick and most effective way to overturn the ULEZ expansion be therefore to vote for Susan Hall . if we do that , or if my Bill be successful , we will end a cruel tax on many people who have no say on London ' s Mayor . it be an attack on the poor in society , and those who can least afford to pay be be hit the hard . I can not wait to see the back of it . I rise to speak in opposition to the Bill for three key reason . first , it represent an attack on devolution . secondly , it ignore the urgent and important need to tackle poor air quality , not just here in London but in town and city across our country . we would be forgive for forget about this urgent public health issue , because the hon . member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) barely mention it in his introduction , yet it go to the very heart of have the ultra low emission zone . it be about try to tackle something that be a significant problem here in London and in town and city across the country , and it be not just a problem in city centre . the heat map for my city show that poor air quality be not restrict to the city centre , and that the ring road have particular issue . poor air quality be an issue in outer London just as it be in inner London . thirdly , the Bill use a serious public health issue for purely party political point scoring . I begin with devolution . [ interruption . ] it would be nice if I could hear myself speak . it be worth remember that the ultra low emission zone and , indeed , emission charge zone be Tory policy that be push on to local government by a Tory Government and first champion here in London by a Tory Mayor . we would not know that from listen to the intervention of Conservative Members . the Mayor of London have statutory obligation in relation to air quality across the Greater London area . he have a right , indeed a duty , to introduce measure to meet the national air quality target set by central Government . the whole purpose of devolution be for local people to determine the policy that be need for their area . the Government have set the target for air quality , and it be for democratically elect Mayors and local authority to run their city or county in a way that work well for their area , which I know can be controversial . my city be unique in this country in have a workplace parking levy . I would not say for one moment that it have not be controversial . it be incredibly controversial when it be first introduce more than 10 year ago when , under a previous Conservative - lead Government , there be a huge problem with austerity . People be feel the impact of that austerity , so the levy ' s introduction be delay by a year , but it be about both discourage people from drive into the city and provide an income stream that could be use to improve alternative to drive by invest in public transport . it have be incredibly successful . Nottingham be one of the city that have not be force to introduce a clean air zone , because its work to improve public transport , in part fund by the workplace parking levy , have lead to that situation . the Mayor of London expand the ULEZ in August 2023 because toxic air pollution be a public health crisis . he be act to tackle the crisis of poor air quality . I remind hon . member that poor air quality be link to around 4 , 000 premature death per year in London . it lead to child grow up with stunt lung , and contribute to people develop serious health problem , include asthma , heart disease and dementia . I understand that the hon . member for Dartford might not agree with the Mayor about the good way to tackle air pollution , but that be democracy . my hon . friend be develop a powerful argument , and this be what the Conservatives have no answer to . what would they put in place to deal with the health aspect of poor air quality , such as damage to child ' s development , and people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other respiratory and coronary illness who be adversely affect by this issue ? the Conservatives be desperate because they have nothing to offer the people of London they seek to scaremonger about this charge . there be no concern whatsoever for the health of Londoners , or those people in outer London who be suffer most from air pollution . my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be really tell when the hon . member for Dartford begin to talk about his mayoral candidate that he say nothing about her plan to tackle the serious issue of air pollution . my hon . friend hit on a blunter truth about the Bill . in six week ' time , our constituent , whether they agree or not with the argument make by the hon . member for Dartford or with argument on the importance of tackle air pollution , will have the opportunity to express an opinion at the ballot box when choose who the London Mayor oversee this policy should be . be the message of the Bill that conservative mp have no confidence in their mayoral candidate win that argument , or indeed do anything in support of their policy ? they clearly feel the need to intervene and usurp devolution , so should nobody in London even bother with the conservative campaign , because their candidate ' s own colleague think she be incompetent ? my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head . progress be be achieve . the vast majority of car — 19 out of 20 in Greater London — be compliant with ULEZ . Labour member be pleased that Transport for London and the Mayor of London have decide to expand the scrappage scheme to support those who be struggle as a result of the Tory cost of living crisis . I be listen with interest to the hon . Lady ' s speech . the Government obviously support the Bill in the circumstance apply . will she address the point that be fairly make about people outside a mayoral zone be affect and penalise by enter a mayoral zone , when they do not vote for that ? unusual as it be for the Minister to intervene , I think the point be make by my hon . friend the Member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) . when people from outside London drive into London , the cost of that in term of health , and wear and tear on the road , be bear by constituent here in London . it be not unreasonable for they to expect that those who benefit from everything that London have to offer , who travel into the centre cause congestion and poor air quality , should abide by the well - establish principle that the polluter pay . this go back to what I be say about the fact that the Government insist that Bristol have a clean air zone . obviously that will have a significant impact on people from Bath , for example , who drive down the a4 into my constituency , cause a huge amount of congestion and air pollution , but that be basically how politic work . I entirely agree with what my hon . friend just say : the duty of politician be to look after people in the patch they represent . my hon . friend be exactly right . I will come on to address how we well tackle the issue of air pollution and , at the same time , protect those who be impact by this charge . from 21 August last year , every Londoner with a non - compliant vehicle become eligible for a £ 2 , 000 grant to assist they in replace their vehicle . I understand why people have say that £ 2 , 000 be not enough , but that have be provide despite central Government give no financial support to the Mayor of London for it . of course , if the Government be concerned about the impact — [ interruption . ] if they be concerned about the impact of their clean air charging zone , they could have provide additional assistance — will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I be not give way at the moment . as I be say , the Government could have provide additional financial support to the Mayor of London so that that grant could have be increase , but they choose not to so . I be proud that Labour be the party of devolution . [ interruption . ] it be Labour that create the mayoral model in London , and create the Scottish Parliament , the Welsh Assembly and the Northern Ireland Assembly , as well as always have — order . the hon . Lady be try to make a speech . we have a conversation go on between the two Front - Bench team and rather a lot of shout at the hon . Lady herself . we need to listen to her speech with respect . as I be say , that devolution be as well as always have regional and local decision making and funding across England . I be pleased that the next Labour Government will build on that record . indeed , Labour Mayors across England be already show how it be do — whether that be in Manchester , Liverpool , South Yorkshire or West Yorkshire — take back control of bus , support new home , and reform employment and skill . I be very much look forward to see Claire Ward elect as the first Mayor of the East Midlands on 2 May . sadly , while Labour be committed to more devolution , this Bill show that the Tories be simply try to roll it back . I wish to say a little more about air pollution , which be at the heart of this Bill , and the strategy to tackle it . as I have already say , we know the problem that poor air cause . it affect our health and our environment ; as many as 40 , 000 people die prematurely each year as a result of poor air quality . the elderly , the unwell and the economically deprived be those most likely to be affect . the Government ' s own estimate say that poor air quality cost the UK economy billion of pound each year . I think about my own constituency and the argument that we have about the workplace parking levy . lot of people in the city do not pay the levy , because they simply can not afford to run a car at all ; they be reliant on public transport . we also know where the problem occur . key pollutant , include nitrogen dioxide and fine particulate matter — know as PM2 . 5 — be find in many place , and too many air quality zone in the UK exceed legal limit . the World Health Organisation tell we that there be no safe level of exposure to fine particulate matter . we know what cause poor air quality . it come from several source — industry , agriculture , home , business , and , yes , transport . road transport be responsible for the vast majority of nitrogen oxide concentration at place in the UK that exceed the legal limit , with diesel engine a significant contributor . the number of car and van on our road continue to rise and congestion have worsen , which increase pollution in itself . Transport also generate a significant proportion of particulate matter , which can come from both combustion and wear of tyre and brake pad . clean vehicle help to solve the problem , and we have make some progress on that , but not enough . there be example from across the country of the action that can be take to tackle emission . low emission zone be only one tool in the toolbox , and it could be say that they should be a last resort . as I have say , in my city , there have be considerable investment in public transport , pay for in part by proceed from the workplace parking levy . we have have major extension to our tram network . Nottingham ' s municipal bus company introduce new biogas bus year ago , and I be really pleased to see that it have just start to roll out new electric vehicle . I do not deny that there have be support from central Government for some of that investment . for some year , the city council have have an anti - idle campaign . that multi - pronged approach mirror similar action in town and city across the UK , with not one but multiple tool be use to tackle this serious public health issue . the Department for Transport have support the development of low emission bus and taxi . that be a good thing , because tackle poor air quality should be about central Government work with local council and Mayors , rather than dictate to they , as the Bill do . Central Government should support and collaborate with they . in prepare for the debate , I go back to a 2018 report , produce by four cross - party Select Committees , that look at improve air quality . one thing that the Committees come together to recommend be collaboration and partnership between central Government , local authority and Mayors , because air pollution be a problem that can not be fix by central or local government alone ; they need to work together . like the Mayor of London , local authority be already responsible for meet air quality target , but they find it difficult to make change , partly due to a lack of resource and partly because the change need be politically unpalatable ; I guess that in part be what have cause the debate . it be a while ago , but that joint report from 2018 call for ambitious , co - ordinate cross - departmental action . I be sorry that in some respect the Government have fail on that , as they have prevaricate on remove the most polluting vehicle from our road . at the time of the report , we call on they to have a more ambitious target for the removal of petrol and diesel car ; I think they be only commit to remove they by 2040 . they do at first commit to a more ambitious target of end the sale of petrol and diesel car , but more recently , they have row back from that , which make it more difficult for we to achieve the improvement that we know be need . there be also a decision to row back on the electrifi - cation of our railway , in favour of bi - mode train , which have worry implication for air quality , carbon emission and noise . every time I go to St Pancras station to catch my train home to Nottingham , I stand on the platform among diesel train because the railway be not electrify all the way to Nottingham . frankly , I be look forward to see new train on the midland main line next year , but they will be bi - mode train , and while they will leave St Pancras under electric power , which will improve air quality in central London , by the time they get to Nottingham , they will be operate under diesel power , do far less to improve air quality in our city . that be the result of a decade of broken promise from successive Tory Prime Ministers , who have pause and cancel the electrification of the midland mainline . we now know that electric train will not reach Nottingham until at least the early 2030 . I have sometimes joke that I will be retire by the time we get there , and I be afraid that might be the case . there be a danger of the Government rely too heavily on new technology to solve our air quality challenge , and place too much emphasis on clean up road vehicle and not enough on reduce the number of vehicle on our road . improve public transport and encourage active travel should lie at the heart of any clean air strategy . get freight off our road and on to our railway would be welcome , take many heavy good vehicle , which be often the most polluting , off our road . back in 2018 , the four Select Committees conclude that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Department for Transport should work closely with local authority to ensure that council introduce clean air zone receive the support that they need to implement complementary measure that encourage car driver to switch to public transport and active travel , and increase the take - up of electric vehicle . I understand that not every journey can be make by public transport or bicycle , or on foot , but if we can change a proportion of those journey , we can make a real difference . for a while , the conservative party seem really interested in walk and cycling — I see the Minister with responsibility for walk and cycling , the hon . member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , sit on the Front Bench , but he have not be terribly busy . yesterday at transport question , not a single Conservative MP ask a question about active travel . it be disappointing that they have scale back their investment in that . investment in low - emission bus be great , but the value of that investment be magnify if local authority also take step to encourage motorist to opt for bus , rather than make journey by car . I understand the argument make by the hon . member for Dartford that people can continue to drive , but of course a charge be a disincentive ; that be partly how the scheme operate . the pandemic have a huge impact on public transport usage , both in London and across the country . I pay tribute to the Government for their £ 2 bus fare , which have be a welcome initiative . in London , the Labour Mayor Sadiq Khan have also take action , both to protect londoner from the Tory cost of live crisis and to encourage more people to travel by public transport ; he have introduce the hopper fare on bus , and have freeze fare in five out of eight year . without action or a modal shift , effort to tackle congestion or improve air quality be less likely to succeed . many of the policy need to tackle urban congestion could also help to improve air quality . tackle both issue could have a positive effect on both the local and the national economy . a significant increase in active travel could make a difference not just to air quality policy but to tackle obesity , improve mental health and build well community . my hon . friend be make an incredibly powerful case for why air quality should be a priority for we all . ultimately , it be a social justice issue . however rich or poor we be , we all breathe the same air . I suggest to anyone who live in London that they will see the need to tackle low air quality if they leave London for a couple of day and then blow their nose . they will realise what they have be breathe in . this issue affect everyone . she be right that we must tackle it nationally as well as locally . do she agree that unless the Conservatives come up with an alternative plan , they be condemn the poor in our community to the bad health outcome ? my hon . friend make an important point . I would be surprised if many people decide that they want to go in the direction of have a Conservative Mayor in the absence of proper information about how a Conservative Mayor would tackle air pollution . finally , this Bill be about party political point scoring . the Government support clean air zone . indeed , they provide cash for scrappage scheme in Bristol , Bath , Sheffield , Birmingham , Portsmouth and other area of the country , but not London . I wonder why . in town and city across England — not just in London — our constituent have face 14 year of tory economic failure . they can not afford another week , let alone more month or , heaven forbid , year of Tory Government . family be sick with anxiety as they endure this cost of living crisis , while their local service be under immense pressure . when time be tough due to the Conservatives ' economic failure , it be essential that we look at option for achieve clean air without disproportionately impact people . we must secure our economy and make it strong by get growth back on course , as the last Labour Government do , whereas we have have an anaemic situation under 14 year of the Tories . [ interruption . ] they do not want to hear it , do they ? they do not want to hear that growth be fast under a Labour Government than under 14 year of the Tories . fourteen year of tory economic failure have leave we in this position , where everything be bad and everything be break . it be by grow our economy that we will provide sustainable , long - term funding for council , and give local area the tool and stability that they need for growth , as we push power , wealth and opportunity out from Westminster . the hon . Lady have be speak for nearly half an hour , and it be obvious that she and the Labour party wish to talk out my Bill to overturn the expansion of the ULEZ scheme . can I ask what her message be to a lady I speak to recently in my constituency ? she say that she could not visit her sister in Bexley , just a few mile away . as she be a disabled person , she could not use public transport , could not afford to upgrade her car , and could not afford a taxi . that may not affect people in Nottingham South , but it do affect people in Dartford . I understand that people face a cost of living crisis . what the hon . Member should have explain to that lady be why she feel so much bad off after 14 year of Conservative Government . he should not try to pin it on a single issue ; it be down to his Government ' s failure , and he should take some responsibility for that . I thank my hon . friend for her excellent speech in support of clean air , which be what this debate be all about . what would she say to the many parent I meet in my constituency who introduce I to child who have asthma on a scale never see before ? through ULEZ and other measure , they will see their child ' s health improve . my hon . friend make an important point that could be lose in this debate , which be that the issue be about health — the health of child and old people . it be , as my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) say , about the health of some of the poor in society ; they be most impact by poor air quality . that be what we should be talk about . if , as the promoter of the Bill , the hon . member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) , claim , the issue be not health , why be the Government support charge zone in other city ? we will have to listen to the Minister ' s answer on that . however , it be clear that the Government want clean air charge zone — in fact , they be a requirement on city that have not succeed in meet air quality target through other measure . I be not go to apologise for speak in this debate because , as I say , I have long have an interest in air quality . the experience in my city mean we have something to offer and share . finally , let I turn to the alternative , because the hon . member for Dartford do not say much about alternative . I want to talk about that because Labour do have a plan to support driver . we will support they by focus on the cost of live and on the infrastructure challenge , which be real priority for household that have and use a car — that probably include most of we some of the time , even if we walk , cycle or use a bus most of the time . our plan include work with the Competition and Markets Authority , the Financial Conduct Authority and industry on address the soar cost of car insurance . we plan to bring railway back into public hand and to allow all local authority to take back control of their bus service . London never have to put up with the deregulation of its bus service as the rest of the country do . those thing have the capability to relieve congestion by improve the state of our public transport network , and I imagine other local authority might like to follow Nottingham ' s lead by have a municipal bus company , which , once again , have be show to provide one of the good bus service in the entire country . I would say that we have the good bus service , thank to Nottingham City Transport . a Labour Government would be commit to protect our environment , help to decarbonise the economy , and ensure that we all have safe air to breathe . labour would work with local authority and mayoral combine authority to support they to meet air quality target in the way that work well for their area . we appreciate that emission level in different area vary as a result of the kind of industry and economic activity in those area , and we will work in partnership with local and regional government , empower they to protect and improve air quality , while foster economic innovation and productivity . labour would make it clear that the Government have a direct responsibility to work with our local authority to avoid the need for charge clean air zone through the adoption of alternative air quality improvement method , such as those I have talk about : re - route traffic , land management , speed limit , well public transport , and well option to get freight off our road and on to our railway . that responsibility should also extend to help to mitigate the impact of any proposal that clear the strong threshold set by the Government for a clean air zone . I thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to speak in this debate , and I hope that hon . member will focus on the issue of air pollution and the need to take action in a variety of way to tackle it . let I begin by congratulate my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) , on his Bill , which I be delighted to sponsor . I be delighted to participate in this debate and to congratulate he also on his excellent , informative and constructive speech . I be rather disappointed in the hon . member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , for whom I have a lot of respect , because she do not say much about ULEZ . she take we on a tour of Nottingham and tell we about other part of Labour party policy , but she show a total misunderstanding of — or no understanding of — outer London . [ interruption . ] she can barrack I all she like , but she never have a view on outer London . she also make a statement that be fundamentally untrue , in say that this Government have not bail out the Mayor of London . transport for London have be bail out so many time in the past few year , but she do not say that . she gloss over the management of TfL . she also do not come up with any fact or figure to show that ULEZ have reduce the level of pollution in inner London . we be still see huge level of pollution in inner London , even on the underground , which come to our attention last year — rise — the hon . Lady would not give way to I , so I be certainly not go to give way to she . I have also not have the opportunity to start my speech . I know that Opposition member just want to delay everybody and everything , but I want to speak for my borough of Bexley . we have a long tour about Nottingham , but ULEZ affect my borough and my constituency , not her in Nottingham , so I think I should have a few minute to speak . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) do not get up and ask to intervene , but the other do . the expansion of ULEZ affect my area and the surround area very badly . it blindly copy the approach take in central and inner London without properly assess the implication for outer London or the neighbouring area . the expansion have cause a range of negative social , financial and economic impact for those who can least afford it . perhaps this be not the case for the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) , for whom I have a lot of respect , but we be inundate with people in my borough , some of whom support his party , who think it be unfair for ULEZ to come to Bexley when Bexley have good air quality , as do Bromley . I be surprised at what he say ; I have no doubt that it be correct , as he as a good friend of mine and an honourable man , but I do not believe that there have not be people in Eltham who have say that this be unfair to those who be less well off . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give way . I want to clarify that I do not say that I have not have any people say that . what I say be that far more people write to I about the state of our road , which the Government have cause by starve local authority of investment . of course , recently local authority have be give more money by the Government . I would say to the hon . member that that be the fault of Greenwich council , not the Government . my right hon . friend rightly point out that the local council be responsible for the road . what the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) fail to point out be that the Royal Borough of Greenwich have be give over £ 7 . 8 million by the Government through the recent announcement of the pothole fund . I be grateful to my hon . friend and constituency neighbour . the ULEZ extension be a disastrous policy and another example of the London Labour Mayor fill the black hole in his finance . this Mayor be no friend of motorist . we have already have 20 mph speed limit , 24 / 7 bus lane and the congestion charge on people who need to use their car . my constituent be very angry about this . my borough be one of the two in London without the tube , the dockland light railway or tram . the Mayor of London have never even look at extend any of those . we only have southeastern rail and bus as our public transport . it be all very well to say that we should go on the tube , but we do not have it . like many people , we have to use a car to get about in our area . the lack of public transport — and the fact that a lot of what we have be unreliable — have major implication for my constituent and resident of the borough of Bexley . we be heavily reliant on our car for various purpose . we have one of the high car ownership rate and the low sustainable modal share rate in London . over the last decade , car and van registration have outstrip population growth . these be not figure we want to have . we hear all these wonderful thing that the Mayor of London be do , but in our area he have do very little . I make the point in an intervention on my hon . friend the Member for Dartford that the Mayor have no mandate for this extension . it be all very well the hon . member for Nottingham South talk about a mandate , but from his last manifesto he have no mandate for this policy . we could have debate it then . the hon . Lady be high on the mandate , but the manifesto do not mention it at all . I believe that the consultation be rather a sham . two third of people object to the ULEZ , and they do so for many and various reason . we have hear from business , and we have hear my hon . friend the Member for Dartford talk about his constituent who have to go and visit a relative in Bexley on a regular basis , and who now have to pay an extra £ 12 . 50 every time . the Labour party say that it care about the less well - off and those who be disadvantaged , as I do passionately . I believe in social mobility and in give people the chance to maximise their opportunity in life , and I have to say that the ULEZ be a tax on those who can not afford to get around . in Bexley , we do not have the public transport service that other London borough have . the congestion charge have triple in the last few year , and the fine for non - payment have increase from £ 160 to £ 180 — more than two day ' pay for minimum wage earner . it be reduce to £ 90 if pay within two week , but that be still more than a day ' s pay . this be very unsatisfactory for the less well - off in the outer borough of London , as well as for business , key worker , pensioner and family . it be no good the Labour party always blame somebody else , because the ULEZ be introduce by the Mayor of London . the poor in my borough be the one who do not have the ability to change their car , and give they £ 2 , 000 to do so be a bit of an insult . I be really disappointed . I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way . if he be to persuade the Government to provide additional support for scrappage , as they have do for other clean air zone in the country , to people in the outer borough of London , whom he and I represent , he would have my support , but do he understand my concern ? our constituent can have their say on this matter at the London mayoral election in just six week ' time . why be he seek to usurp his own candidate and her ability to address this issue ? do he have such little confidence that he feel that national legislation be need to undermine his own candidate , or be it really a sign that he think London recognise that the good option be Sadiq Khan ? I have a lot of respect for the hon . Lady , and I know her constituency very well . I grow up in Woodford , so I know the area . [ interruption . ] I know that be not in her constituency , but my wife and son be bear in Walthamstow . the hon . Lady should let I finish before she interject . I know that part of the world well , and I respect she tremendously for the work that she do locally . what I would say to she be that this be a conversation that should have be have before the Mayor implement the policy . we could have then have meeting with the Government and Members represent outer London constituency , and have a discussion about how we could go forward constructively . the Mayor do not allow for that . he just have an artificial consultation and do not take any notice of what people think , and we do not have a discussion . we should have have it beforehand . the hon . Lady say that these matter should be discuss with the Government and other , but we do not have that discussion . this Government have bail out the Mayor of London so much , which the opposition do not like to admit . I be a big supporter of Susan Hall , and I very much hope that she will win on 2 May . it be important to note that a lot of care worker have be in touch with I . some of they work in the constituency of the hon . member for Eltham , and they be very cross that they have to pay £ 12 . 50 . it be more difficult to get night staff , who have to pay £ 25 . surely that can not be right . surely it must be look at again by the Mayor of London , because these be key worker in our area . they do a magnificent job , and I be always supportive of they . I will come to a conclusion , because I do not want to take half an hour and not let other people participate in the debate . I be really disappointed that the Opposition Members who have speak so far have try to make this a general discussion about clean air zone across the country . we be look at London . unfortunately , we no long have the debate we always use to — a debate on London issue on a Thursday . that be when we could discuss London issue , not Nottingham or national issue , however important they might be , and air quality be very important . if we be go to do that , as I say to the hon . member for Nottingham South , let we have the figure for the improvement in inner London and the pollution that be still on the tube after year of the charge be in place in the centre of London . will the right hon . member give way ? no , I be go to conclude because I want other people to have a chance . if people take half an hour , it be not fair on other who want to speak , whatever they want to say . I thank my hon . friend the Minister who will respond to the debate , and I be particularly supportive of the Secretary of State for Transport , who be do a brilliant job in the Department . he announce today that the Government will certainly be support this Bill . in conclusion — because I want other people to have the chance to speak — the ULEZ extension be hurry in without proper discussion and consultation , and without thought of the consequence , and my constituent be suffer because of it . as a Bristol MP , I suppose I have to apologise for dare to take part in a debate that be primarily about our capital city , but million of our constituent visit as tourist and come here to work , and as a nation we all want to see it as a healthy , safe and pleasant place for people to visit , and to live and work in , regardless of which constituency we represent . I want to challenge the hon . member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) , who bring in the Bill , for say that this be not an air pollution issue . it be clearly not an air pollution issue from his point of view . we know why he have bring the Bill forward : because of the election come up on 2 May . it be a desperate last - ditch attempt to try to boost the conservative vote — and I think we know how that will turn out . perhaps some conservative Members ought to be out and about , talk to voter on the doorstep , rather than take up our time here today , if they really want to influence the result of that election . the hon . member , who have leave the Chamber now , may not feel that ULEZ be an air pollution issue , but I very much feel that it be because low emission be a public health issue . in my role as shadow Climate Change Minister , people often come and talk to I about air pollution as though it be primarily a net zero issue , and we have see some depressing attempt to make net zero part of the anti - woke culture war by say that net zero come at a cost . we see the Secretary of State for Transport buy into the whole conspiracy theory about 15 - minute city at party conference , which be incredibly depressing . reduce emission from transport be obviously very much part of our ambition to meet net zero , but the immediate driver be the need to clean up our air . we have hear mention of the switch to electric vehicle . it be obviously the long - term objective that we want to ensure that all the vehicle on our road reach safe emission standard . it be therefore disappointing that the Government row back the 2030 ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicle . the signal that that send to the market and consumer be entirely counterproductive . although initially there be some resistance to a 2030 target — rather than a 2035 target — within the car manufacturing trade , the trade then get with the programme and be critical of the Government for that row - back , because it affect sale . it have make the switch and be produce ev ; it be still bind by zero emission vehicle mandate , so it be make the new electric vehicle . the most important thing we can do — this go to the point about people not be able to afford clean vehicle that be compliant with the ULEZ — be to develop a second - hand electric vehicle market as quickly as possible . we do that by increase new ev sale . the figure have go down a bit , but it be the case that of new ev sale , 80 - something per cent be fleet vehicle . we know that they then come on to the second - hand market pretty quickly . we have to bring down the cost of buy ev — I can see the right hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Sir David Evennett ) nodding — and we do not do that by push the ban back to 2035 ; we need to bring it in now . we also need action on ev charging infrastructure . I will say thank you to the Government for provide some new money for charge infrastructure in the west of England — I think that Bristol be the good place outside London in this regard — but what be lack be a national strategy to put the infrastructure into place where the market will not meet the need because there be not the necessary footfall , or whatever the drive equivalent be , particularly in our rural area that depend on tourism . those travel down to Devon and Cornwall can use exeter service , but after that it be pretty difficult to find somewhere to charge a car . as I have an ev and can not charge it at home because I live in a block of flat , I welcome the public charging point in Bristol . I spend far too much time sit in car park do Duolingo and practise my very bad russian while charge my car . it be quite sad when constituent spot I do that . although we need more charge point in our city , include London , this be national infrastructure and we must roll it out to other part of the country . as I have say , I believe that the immediate imperative be not reduce transport emission with the aim of reach net zero but deal with air pollution , which we know have a significant impact on people ' s health and on child ' s health in particular . when I be at school there be just one girl in my class with asthma , but nowadays the majority of kid in any inner - city primary school probably have it . child be more vulnerable in this regard because their airway be small and still develop , because they be close to traffic fume because they be small , and because they breathe more rapidly . they be also more likely to develop more serious lung condition in later life — although of course asthma can be very serious . moreover , air pollution affect the lung development of foetus in utero , and increase the chance of miscarriage . if a mother be expose to a large volume of air pollution during pregnancy the baby be more likely to be bear prematurely and with a low birth weight , which be correlate with the development of certain health problem as a child grow up . I pay tribute to group such as Asthma + Lung UK and Mums for Lungs , which have be do some very good campaigning in my constituency , while St George Breathing Better have be push for school street scheme to restrict the entry of high - emit vehicle , especially when child be go in and out of school . I do not know whether my hon . friend have find this in her constituency , but in mine there have certainly be a significant rise in the incidence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the response have not be particularly helpful in recent year , in term of acknowledgment , proper diagnosis and speed of reaction to the problem ; but that , too , relate to the air pollution issue . I think that be true , and it be also connect with poor housing condition . we have talk in this place before about the need to ensure that home be fit for human habitation . a young boy tragically die recently because of the mould in his home . all these thing be connect . in the last few week I have be diagnose with adult - onset asthma , which be on the rise . we know that 30 % of case be trigger by allergy , and that much of this be link with mould in people ' s home . what my hon . friend be say — and she be make a powerful speech — go to the heart of why we need to tackle this issue for all our constituent , whether young or old . I suffer from hay fever virtually all the year round . I would have think it would be bad in the countryside , but it be terrible when I be in London . I be in Paris in January and the hay fever take off suddenly because of the air pollution level . hay fever be not lethal in the way that asthma attack can be , but it be a pretty grim condition to have to live with . it affect people ' s ability to do their work and to study , for instance . as I say early , the Government be force to act on air pollution after be take to court by ClientEarth , to which I pay tribute for its continue effort through the legal system to hold the Government to account in respect of their environmental target . as a result of that court case , Bristol be ask to act . I have already make the point about the irony , perhaps , of demand local autonomy in some case and demand not to be tell what to do by the Mayor of London , but in Bristol the Secretary of State tell we we have to do that . the hon . Lady be make a fair point , but we have to recognise the issue of scale . in Bristol , the clean air zone be barely 2 square mile — it be about 1 mile by 2 mile — and specifically take into account individual and business . the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Dartford do not seek to get rid of the congestion zone or the first ulez expansion , yet the second expansion of ULEZ , in contrast to Bristol ' s 2 square mile , be approximately 600 square mile , at 50 mile by 50 mile . that be so monumentally big than anything contemplate in Bristol or other city . London have the Greater London Assembly , a Mayor with devolved power and Transport for London , so this issue be look at on a London - wide basis . there be an issue in Bristol with people come into the city centre from place like Bath , but the borough be not so interwoven that we can not see the border between they , and we do not have the interconnectivity that London have . in Bristol , we be tell that we have to bring air pollution level within legal limit as quickly as possible . we go to great length with the modelling to deal with concern about the economic and social impact . as the Minister say , make the zone as small as possible be one of the factor in that . it be relevant to talk about the Bristol scheme because it show what can be achieve by similar measure in London . the scheme come into effect in November 2022 , and in January this year we have the first annual report on its effectiveness . it be judge to have be highly successful . the headline figure be that air pollution across all measure site have decline by 9 . 7 % . the success of the CAZ be measure by whether it lower nitrogen dioxide level below the legal limit of 40 microgram per cubic metre . in November 2022 , when the scheme be introduce , there be 18 site across Bristol above the legal limit . just 12 month later , that be down to just six zone . the scheme be particularly effective outside the Bristol Royal Infirmary and the Bristol Children ' s Hospital , which be bang in the middle of the city centre . air pollution be down by an incredible 26 . 9 % . I defy anyone to tell I that such big improvement in air quality in area where there be very sick and vulnerable people , include sick child , be a bad thing . it have be really successful . do my hon . friend share my concern that this be sometimes present as a binary choice between motorist and everybody else , such as the child in the hospital , when these improvement be actually beneficial for everyone ? one thing that come out of the 2018 report be that some of the bad air quality be inside vehicle , so motorist directly benefit from improvement in air quality . I be on the Environmental Audit Committee and the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee at the time , both of which take part in that inquiry . it be difficult to bring those Committees together , but the inquiry produce a really good , significant report , which we should still pay heed to when we as House think about what to do on this issue go forward . there seem to be a focus on motorist , but there be now a multiplicity of electric vehicle . I have get one of they . I use to have an electric bike , but I now have an electric scooter — not a sit - down scooter . I find it particularly effective in my constituency , although to be frank my constituent do frown when I turn up as the MP because they think I should be deliver a pizza . there be a multiplicity of vehicle option that we can deploy to tackle some of these air pollution problem , but we need more incentive from central Government to develop that multiplicity . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . I do have an e - bike ; it be steal from inside the Houses of Parliament . one would think that there would be nowhere more secure , but when the Queen be lie in state , whoever be act as her security remove all the bike and take off a £ 130 lock — presumably with an angle grinder or something — and my bike be not see again . try explain to the insurance company that it be people from Buckingham Palace or from the Queen ' s lie in state who take the lock off ! that be another story , though . my right hon . friend be entirely right . I use to hold the shadow green transport brief , and e - bike be hugely important in allow people to do those long journey . I could not make it up the hill in Bristol without a bit of extra help from an e - bike , but when it come to delivery vehicle , one of the issue be delivery inside the area cover by zone . if we can have hub outside the city centre and electric van or e - cargo bike make those delivery , that could have a huge impact . obviously , everybody make food delivery and similar thing really ought to be use clean mode of transport . I be conscious of time , so I will finish my point about the Bristol scheme . there be concern that it would lead people to take diversion and increase pollution outside the clean air zone , but air pollution outside the zone have also be measure as down : it have reduce by 7 . 8 % , because the CAZ have encourage a modal shift among people . I appreciate that people can not always afford to make that shift in vehicle , but it have happen . another concern raise by opponent be that the CAZ would harm the local economy and community by discourage people from come into the city centre . in fact , the opposite happen : retail footfall across four major retail hotspot in central Bristol actually rise from the previous year . there be also an argument that people would become isolated and stick at home because they could not afford to pay the £ 9 charge , but again , that be not the case : the number of journey into or through the CAZ per month be high at the end of the year than at the start of the scheme , and the percentage of compliant journey rise every single month . that be what we want to achieve . it be the same with the landfill tax , for example . that tax be not about raise money because lot of people be send stuff to landfill . if a landfill tax be effective , the revenue go down and down , year on year . there be actually an issue with the fact that the tax be not keep pace with inflation at the moment , but assume it be effective , the revenue will dwindle — it be the behaviour change that we want to make happen . as I say , ideally we would not have introduce a clean air zone , but we have make it work . it be also worth note that the Government take £ 2 from every £ 9 CAZ charge , which we would very much like to be able to spend in Bristol instead . it be quite difficult to assess the effectiveness of a clean air zone , because it be not about whether vehicle number go down , but about whether those number be high or low than they would have be if we have do nothing . when think about the effectiveness of ULEZ in central London , for example , we need to model what would have happen if we have not have ULEZ , rather than just look at whether the number have go up or down . exactly — there be very complicated modelling involve . also , if we can use measure such as these to take some car off the road , that increase the attractiveness of public transport , because the bus can get to where they be mean to be without be stick in traffic . surely the hon . Lady be make an argument in support of the Bill — for have small congestion zone in the centre of city , allow the public transport to get to where it be mean to be , but not massive 600 square mile congestion zone such as the present expand ULEZ ? I be think in the context of the right hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Sir David Evennett ) say that he do not have a tube station in his part of Greater London , as though the only alternative to the tube be drive . London have a pretty decent bus system , but we need to make sure that people have that alternative . again , I be go to say something nice : we have have confirmation today that First Bus have receive funding under the next wave of the zero - emission bus regional area scheme to turn all of our bus into electric vehicle . we have be experiment with biogas , but that funding will do an awful lot . we do have some clean biogas bus , and my right hon . and learn Friend the leader of the Labour party get to drive one on one of his previous visit to the city . he be like a little boy with a new toy , it have to be say — I think he greatly enjoy it . give that the evidence show that ULEZ have cut pollution in central London by almost half , the challenge that the Minister be present slightly misread how people travel around London . as an outer - London MP , I be acutely conscious that people also drive within the borough to work , as well as between outer London borough . the idea that we would have the same impact on reduce pollution just by focus on the centre miss the challenge that we be all try to address . nobody be say that this be easy or that it be not controversial . I have the north circular run through my constituency , and I see the pollution . I see child and adult struggle with the consequence , and I be sure the same be true in south London . we have to consider how people travel around London to understand the good way of tackle these issue . it can not just be theoretical . it have to be a practical model , do it not ? my hon . friend be right , and she bring I on to my final point . her borough of Waltham Forest host the mini - Holland scheme , which I have cycle around on an e - bike . each week , the council ' s transport lead take people on a tour so that they can learn from the scheme . these local scheme can transform neighbourhood by design out some of the traffic and make they pleasant place to live , by build thing like sustainable urban drainage scheme and area where people can sit and talk . a liveable neighbourhood pilot be just about to start in my constituency . it be important to engage the local community , to explain how it will work for they and to listen when they say how it might cause problem in certain area . although there have be some opposition , group such as St George Breathing Better — which be found by a group of parent whose child be suffer because of the city ' s air pollution — be very much behind the pilot . I return to the Secretary of State ' s disappointing remark about 15 - minute city . as well as big measure , such as ULEZ to address Greater London ' s transport problem , we need to consider local solution such as liveable neighbourhood and school street scheme to encourage people to walk to school and work , and to make it as easy as possible for people to get around without resort to their car . this should be about give elect politician the right to implement such solution in consultation with the people they represent . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) for introduce this Bill , which it be my great pleasure to support . member across the House will agree that we want clean air for our resident today and for generation to come . across London and in my constituency , in the outer suburb of Uxbridge and South Ruislip , we all agree that nobody want dirty or poor - quality air . however , the Labour Mayor of London ' s expansion of ULEZ to outer London have nothing to do with air quality and everything to do with punish hard - work family and business of all size . several month after he totally ignore Londoners and press ahead with expand the ULEZ tax across outer London , like fellow conservative Members I continue to be contact by people share example of financial hardship , collapse business and negative social consequence . as it stand , I believe the Bill would go some way towards rectify a blatant money grab , by call for the Transport Secretary to consent to any expansion of ULEZ and the ULEZ boundary , once they have be amend as per the Bill , which spell out a number of important qualification . among they be whether any propose change be in accordance with a Mayor ' s manifesto commitment at the most recent mayoral election . the Mayor of London make no mention of ulez expansion in his manifesto , and he certainly make no mention of it to the people of Uxbridge and South Ruislip , but that be not all . the ULEZ expansion ' s democratic deficit do not stop there . along with the lack of any mention of ULEZ in his manifesto , the Mayor of London embark on a consultation that , due to a raft of allegation , include on the weighting give to particular consultation response among other issue , have leave multiple question about its validity . I be glad to see that confront in the Bill , which would require the Secretary of State to consider response to any consultation conduct on propose change . if the Mayor have put more time and effort into speak to resident across outer London — and , indeed , in Uxbridge and South Ruislip — he would have understand that they be not far - right conspiracy theorist . these hard - work family and business owner be ignore , and continue to be ignore . why do the Mayor of London not consider use fund to bring about a new fleet of green bus , electrify the taxi network , plant more tree or ensure that the tube run on much clean energy ? let we not forget a properly fund scrappage scheme . those alternative would have produce real , bind change in people ' s live : not just in how they travel around outer London , but in how they interact with their community and their surrounding . rather than explore sensible , common - sense alternative , the Mayor of London choose to spend hundred of million of pound on ULEZ enforcement camera . Uxbridge and South Ruislip be heavily reliant on car usage due to the nature of its outer - London geography . the people I have the privilege of represent could opt to use public transport , but we see how the Mayor of London be decimate local bus service and continue to preside over the ongoing catastrophic failure of the central line . email and social medium comment flood in from constituent who be rightly angry about an unacceptable and unreliable public transport service . why force ULEZ expansion on area with minimal and long - term unreliable public transport without first rectify those issue ? why not invest more in the public transport network so that people can rely on it and then decide to make the switch ? why do he push ahead with ULEZ expansion first ? the answer be clear : to continue ignore hard - work londoner and punish they with a destructive money grab , thinly disguise as an environmental strategy , with little or no substance . I know all too well about the anger and frustration feel by ordinary , hard - work people in Uxbridge and South Ruislip — and indeed those across outer London — about the Mayor ' s cynical money grab . in my maiden speech , I state : " I stand here — no long the local candidate , but the Member of Parliament — still determined to fight the Mayor of London ' s money grab and reduce the burden place on my resident and local business . " — [ Official Report , 13 November 2023 ; Vol . 740 , c . 389 . ] those word still re true . only this week , the Mayor of London make comment cite that " the sky didn ' t fall in " follow the expansion of ULEZ . well , it do for business who can no long afford to trade and for household who have incur financial hardship . those flippant and arrogant comment cement the view that the Mayor of London be out of touch with hard - work Londoners . the Bill have my full support as it look to vary ulez boundary and ensure that safeguard be in place for oversight and consultation . in addition to support the Bill , I want to place on record in the House my wholehearte support for the conservative candidate for Mayor of London , Susan Hall . I rise to speak in opposition to the Bill . it be interesting to follow the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) . on the day that he be elect to this place , I remember campaign and talk to resident , who say , " we be not go to vote labour , as we have always do before , because we ' ll have to pay £ 12 . 50 every day to drive on our local road . " my colleague say , " how will it affect you ? what car do you drive ? " and the guy at this one house say , " well , there it be — it ' s a Toyota Prius . " on the day of that election , thousand of people be tell , and some still believe , that every single person drive a vehicle in Greater London have to pay £ 12 . 50 a day . that be not true , and that myth be still go around . I do not want to undermine the fact that about 5 % of vehicle in London be non - compliant . I accept that the expansion force people who drive non - compliant vehicle , for work or for personal use , to make decision , as other have to when the original ulez boundary be introduce . I will come on to that aspect of the scrappage scheme later . the hon . Lady will be aware that Transport for London ' s impact assessment state that there be likely to be a disproportionate negative impact " for people on low income who travel by a non - compliant private vehicle in outer London to access employment … or opportunity " . it be those organisation and individual who be be affect by the policy . as I have say , I will come on to the detail of the scrappage scheme later . I can address that point , because my constituency be cross by the north and south circular , so we have already be there . as we know , the Bill propose to amend " the boundary of the Greater London Low Emission Zone and Ultra Low Emission Zone " , and provide that Transport for London — in other word , the London Mayor — " may not make an order amend those boundary without the consent of the Secretary of State " . under the Greater London Authority Act 1999 , transport in London be a devolved matter and the responsibility of the Mayor and TfL . as such , Parliament grant the power to make decision on London - wide road - charge scheme to the Mayor . the propose change pose a threat to the power of the Mayor of London , the Greater London Authority , and devolve place around the country . I be disappointed that the Minister have announce that the Government will support this Bill , give their long - stand position that local road - charge power be the responsibility of the Mayor and TfL . any support for such a Bill be regressive and anti - devolution . the previous Mayor of London , before become conservative Prime Minister , introduce the ULEZ , which come into operation in April 2019 . in October 2021 , he ensure its extension to the north and south circular road . the current Mayor of London , as we know , then extend it to all of Greater London in August 2023 . the Bill seek to revert we to have the boundary at the north and south circular road . I can not see the logic in that . devolution be one of the key issue here , along with tackle air pollution . the ULEZ stem from Government legislation , which local government be require to abide by , and which be first champion in London by a Conservative Mayor of London . under the Greater London Authority Act 1999 — I serve on the Bill Committee for that Act . at first , the conservative party oppose the restoration of a Mayor for London and a Greater London Authority , but as we go through the legislation , an element of consensus build up , particularly in the local government community and among London mps , about the sort of power that the Mayor and the GLA should have , include around these sort of issue . there be consensus that if we establish these structure , they would need to be properly empower , and then there be a debate about resource . the Bill before we fly in the face of the debate on that Act . as I say , I be on that Committee , and if I remember rightly , Glenda Jackson be the Minister . I thank my right hon . friend , who be a member of the Greater London Council , which be abolish by a Conservative Government who do not like what the Labour London government be do — so much for respect for local politician . under the Greater London Authority Act 1999 , transport and air quality in London be devolve matter that be the responsibility of the Mayor and Transport for London . the Bill be an affront to the principle of devolution , and the principle of allow local leader to make the decision need to deliver local priority and meet objective set by national Government . air pollution be a health crisis . there be a national air crisis . target to tackle that be rightly set by central Government . across the country , the Government have require and encourage the introduction of clean air zone . the Bill be plainly party political point scoring , give that the Government have require and encourage many other clean air zone across the country . the Bill seek to : " amend the boundary of the Greater London Low Emission Zone and Ultra Low Emission Zone ; to provide that Transport for London may not make an order amend those boundary without the consent of the Secretary of State " . the boundary of the zone would be amend , so that the new boundary would be the edge of the inner zone — that is , the new boundary would be the boundary that be put in place in October 2021 , before the zone be expand up to , but not include , the north and south circular . give the concern of driver come from Dartford and other place into London , what be the logic of remove ULEZ from outer London but not inner London ? surely the hon . member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) represent resident and business who drive into central London . either oppose ULEZ or support ULEZ ; this Bill be neither one thing nor the other . the Bill will prevent TfL from amend the boundary without the express consent of the Secretary of State . it would restrict the ability of the Mayor of London and TfL to make amendment to the charge area by force the Greater London Authority to request permission from the Secretary of State first , and would place a duty on the Secretary of State to consider London election manifesto commitment . it be very bizarre . the Bill mean that there will be contradictory decision make in different part of the country . the Bill strike I as be part of a historical antipathy on the part of conservative government to labour leader in Greater London . as other have say eloquently , this Government could do so much more to address air pollution . they could support the Mayor of London ' s make the scrappage scheme more generous , so that nobody have any reason not to get rid of their non - compliant vehicle . if the cost for non - pollute vehicle come down , there would be no non - compliant vehicle pollute London . that be important because of the impact that pollution have on our community and the people of this country . air pollution be the no . 1 environmental threat to public health in the UK . it contribute to up to 43 , 000 premature death every year in England . in his 2022 annual report , chief medical officer Professor Sir Chris Whitty outline that outdoor air pollution in England " still pose significant health threat " to adult and child . an increase body of evidence link air pollution to various cancer , lung and heart disease , dementia and stroke . it put we all at great risk of disease and shorten live . furthermore , toxic air be hold back our public service and make it hard to treat other condition . Public Health England estimate that air pollution will cost the NHS and the social care system £ 1 . 6 billion between 2017 and 2025 . that rise to £ 5 . 56 billion when we include the impact of disease for which the evidence of an association be less developed and still emerge . by 2035 , that figure will reach almost £ 19 billion unless strong action be take . in addition , a report commission by the Clean Air Fund conclude that improve air quality could boost the UK economy by £ 1 . 6 billion each year , as a result of 3 million additional working day be work , and a reduction in the rate of early retirement . in 2019 in London , toxic air contribute to around 4 , 000 premature death . the great number of death attributable to air pollution be in outer London borough , mainly due to the high proportion in those area of elderly people , who be more vulnerable to the impact of air pollution . I hardly see she now , but I work with a wonderful tenant activist in Brentford when I be a councillor . she have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and be confine to bed about 15 year ago ; she have not be able to leave her bedroom because of copd . she have live all her life in Brentford , which have always have very high air pollution from the coke work and the proximity to the a4 and the M4 . she be just one example , but we all know people who suffer from COPD , emphysema and a whole range of other life - limit and life - damage condition . if no further action be take to reduce air pollution , around 550 , 000 londoner will develop disease relate to poor air quality in the next 30 year . the cost of that for the NHS and social care system in London alone be estimate to be £ 10 . 4 billion by 2050 . More than half a million londoner suffer from asthma and be more vulnerable to the effect of toxic air , and more than half of those people live in outer London . toxic air be a social justice issue . the poor londoner , and londoner from ethnic minority background , who be least likely to own a car , be worst affect by toxic air . only 5 % of the low - income londoner own a car , yet they be more likely to suffer from toxic air . half of all the child admit to hospital due to asthma in London be from minority ethnic background . how can we ever forget the case of Ella Kissi - Debrah , the first person in the world to have air pollution list as a cause of death on her death certificate ? she be a child who grow up in a flat overlook a busy road in south - east London . I have meet Ella ' s mother . I have also work with campaign group such as Mums for Lungs . parent be campaign for we to do the right thing . they support the ULEZ and they ask we — I have have two or three email on this already this week — to oppose this Bill . I want to say a little about my constituency and why this issue matter there . from one end of my constituency to the other , we be affect by heavy traffic and , therefore , high air pollution . that can be see from the map . we have the A4 , the M4 above , and the a316 , which come in from the M3 . the north and south circular meet at their westerly point in my constituency . all those road be all hugely congested and have very polluted air . the last ULEZ boundary go through the middle of my constituency , just inside the north and south circular . there , we have St . Mary ' s Catholic Primary School and William Hogarth School next door to each other , alongside the a4 in Chiswick . the pollution at those school be incredibly high . parent there , lead by one of the father , Andrea Carnevali , have campaign for year to address the issue . their campaign have mean that the issue of air pollution have get into the public domain locally . through their campaigning , those parent manage to get support from the Mayor of London for a green wall along the playground side of the wall to try to catch some of the pollution . they have also work with paint manufacturer . remarkably , air pollution level inside a classroom can be reduce with a particular paint . the school be donate the paint to do measurement and assessment so that everybody could see its efficacy . sadly , it be too expensive for school to buy , because it be so specialist , but that be the sort of thing the Government should be support . until air pollution level drop — they be start to drop , and I will come on to that — child who go to St Mary ' s , William Hogarth and other school in my constituency and across London will be go into classroom , play in playground , and walk and cycle to and from school in environment that be limit their life expectancy . I want to pick up on two letter I receive from parent this week . this be from a mother who tell I about her son . he use to attend a school situate just one block from the a4 as it go into London through Chiswick and Hammersmith . she write that he " use to suffer from asthma and he use to tell we how he could breathe so much well when we be away from London . " he have die from cancer . his mother say : " although his primary tumour be in his left humerus , he die from the bone cancer which have spread to his lung and we now suspect that it have be in his lung for quite some time . " that be why she have ask I to oppose the Bill today . she add another thing in her note : " when I take my son to hospital once for something unrelated , I be on a ward with he with three other child who all have breathing difficulty . when I ask the nurse about this she say they consistently have child admit for breathing problem . " that remind I of my visit to school over the year , from when I be a councillor and subsequently as an MP . a grow number of school have to have an asthma strategy and a grow bank of drawer full of asthma inhaler , just in case . those inhaler be use . More and more child be use asthma inhaler day in , day out so that they be able to make the most of school . the second email be in a way more general , but it still explain from a constituent ' s point of view why I will oppose the Bill today . my constituent write : " as the dad of two young boy who have to expose they to pollution every single day on the school run — particularly over Kew bridge " — over the river , but highly polluted — " I support any and all effort to clean up London ' s air . " the ULEZ be a strategy to protect public health . in lieu of alternative policy that could address this horrific health challenge , the ULEZ be the most effective strategy we have for London , and that be why the Mayor for London be use it . the ULEZ be highly targeted . it help to take the most polluting vehicle off London ' s road . vehicle that do not meet certain emission standard and be not otherwise subject to a grace period , discount or exemption must pay the charge to travel within the city . the charge be set to disincentivise frequent trip in non - compliant vehicle that would otherwise contribute more to air pollution . it incentivise people to change their travel behaviour — for example , to use public transport more or to replace their vehicle — while allow occasional visitor and infrequent driver an alternative . the London - wide expansion have already be highly effective in reduce the proportion and number of old , more polluting vehicle on London ' s road . datum from the London - wide ULEZ first month report show a 10 percentage point increase in vehicle compliance in outer London , with 95 % of vehicle see drive in London on an average day now meet ULEZ standard . that be up from 85 % when the consultation be launch in May 2022 , and mean that compliance rate in outer London have nearly catch up with inner London . as have be say , any net revenue raise from ULEZ will be re - invest back into public transport , include the expansion of bus service in outer London . I be not aware of bus service that have be cut , but there be no doubt that we could always do with more bus service — more frequent service , and more night and weekend service — so that few people be force to get their car out in order to get to work , visit friend and relative , and so on . the ULEZ have be hugely successful in central and inner London , and have lead to significant benefit . harmful NO2 concentration alongside road , such as the a4 and the a316 in my constituency , be estimate to be 46 % low in central London and 21 % low in inner London than they would have be without the ULEZ . the number of school in area exceed legal limit for NO2 fall by an amazing 96 % , from 455 in 2016 to just 20 in 2019 . mum for Lungs be keen to remind we of those figure . it say that on an average day , there be 77 , 000 few unique non - compliant vehicle compare with June 2023 , as well as an overall reduction of 48 , 000 few non - compliant vehicle per day within the ULEZ zone . the ULEZ have help to reduce all harmful nox by 46 % in central London , and by 21 % in inner London . monitor in the capital show that London enjoy the clean air on record in 2023 as a result of ULEZ . there be still a long way to go for London to meet World Health Organisation air quality guideline , and forecast show that all of London will continue to exceed those guideline in 2025 and 2030 without further action . that go back to what the Government be do . beyond London , it be the UK Government ' s view that clean air and low - emission zone be the preferred option for improve air quality in the short possible time , but more must be do to incentivise the use of low and zero - emission vehicle than what the Government be do . we be already begin to see the expect benefit of expand the ULEZ , and it be estimate that 5 million more people , include the constituent of some Conservative Members , be expect to breathe clean air as a result of expand ULEZ to outer London . modelling suggest that the current ULEZ be expect to reduce PM2 . 5 exhaust emission in outer London by nearly 16 % , lead to a 1 . 5 % overall reduction in PM2 . 5 emission — those be the one that cause severe lung disease . it will lead to a reduction of nearly 10 % in nitrogen oxide emission in outer London , and to 146 , 000 few car trip overall , which be an almost 2 % reduction . as one of my colleague say early , the bad place to be in term of air pollution be inside a car , so if few car trip be make that should mean that few people be expose to emission inside a car as well as externally . the ULEZ be expect to save 27 , 000 tonne of co2 emission in outer London , so this be about not just air pollution , but climate change . the issue we have focus on today be respiratory condition , but , like I , my hon . friend have be work on air pollution issue around our airport . I do not know whether she will remember this , but when we look at the matter perhaps 15 year ago , the issue we raise be the incidence of cancer — she have mention cancer itself . we then discover the Chicago airport study , which link cancer to air pollution and highlight the significance of that for airport and the surround area . we should not underestimate the impact that ULEZ could have , not only on overcome respiratory problem , but on reduce cancer incidence in area such as ours . a number of our key campaigner in the area have suffer from cancer and we consider that it be link to the air pollution around the airport . I thank my right hon . friend for that . I have work with he for many year on issue relate to Heathrow . we can not separate the issue of vehicle congestion and air pollution from the issue around Heathrow airport , which do not do enough to incentivise its staff and its passenger to come to the airport by mean other than car . I say that I would cover the issue of scrappage . have continue to listen to the concern of Londoners , the Mayor and TfL expand the scrappage scheme to provide support for more londoner . the Mayor be provide a £ 210 million funding pot for the scrappage scheme to support all londoner with an eligible car or motorcycle , as well as charity , sole trader and small business . it be the most generous scrappage scheme ever see in the UK . as part of the scheme , any London resident with an eligible non - compliant car can apply for a grant of up to £ 2 , 000 to scrap it . neighbour of mine have a nice little runaround car that cost £ 2 , 000 and be compliant , so anyone who say that it be not possible to buy a compliant car for that kind of money have not try to do it . other more extended benefit be available . for example , disabled people who need to scrap or retrofit a non - compliant wheelchair - accessible car can apply for grant of up to £ 10 , 000 to scrap or £ 6 , 000 to retrofit . charity , sole trader and business with few than 50 employee that be register in London can apply for a grant of £ 7 , 000 to scrap a van , £ 9 , 000 to scrap a minibus , or £ 6 , 000 to retrofit certain van or minibus . they can also apply to scrap and replace a van or minibus with a fully electric vehicle , for which the grant be £ 9 , 500 and £ 11 , 500 respectively . eligible organisation can scrap or retrofit up to three vehicle . as of 15 March 2024 , applicant to the ULEZ scrappage scheme can donate their non - ulez compliant vehicle to support humanitarian and medical need in Ukraine , in return for the same level of grant payment that be available to those who choose to scrap their vehicle . the Government have provide scrappage funding for other city , include Birmingham , Bristol , Sheffield and Portsmouth , but they have not provide similar arrangement for specific ringfence funding for London . that be yet another sectarian attack by the Conservative Government on a Labour Mayor . air pollution be a health crisis , and target to tackle it be rightfully set by central Government . across the country , the Government have require and encourage the introduction of clean air zone . the Bill be plainly party political point scoring , give that the Government have require and encourage many other clean air zone across the country . this Bill be a challenge to the power of the Mayor of London to make decision that improve the health of Londoners — all Londoners . if successful , the Bill have the potential to do significant damage , reinforce inequity in public health and undermine the office of the Mayor of London . the Bill be an attack on devolution . the Mayor have a right to introduce measure within his power to meet statutory target set by central Government , but they be dictate how a democratically elect Mayor of London should run the city and that be counter to the principle of devolution . labour be a party of devolution : we create the mayoral model in London , the Scottish Parliament , the Welsh Parliament and the Northern Ireland Assembly , and promote local and regional decision making and funding across England . this Bill be an attack not only on devolution , but on measure to improve our environment and the health of our child and our child ' s child . we have to have solution to the air quality crisis and the cost of living crisis , both nationally and locally . labour be clear that the Government have a direct responsibility to work with local authority to enable clean air zone and alternative to they , and there need to be a range of alternative air quality improvement method , include re - route traffic , land management , speed limit , well public transport and make it easy to acquire non - pollute vehicle . that responsibility should extend to help to mitigate the impact of any proposal that clear the strong threshold set by the Government for a clean air zone . I do not hear about any alternative from those on the Government Benches , so whose side be the supporter of the Bill on — continue pollution or find a solution to stop our child die ? I want to read out the end of the email that I receive from the father I mention early : " pollution be too high in London , it make we sick and long - term exposure can reduce cognitive ability . " I be proud that London have the world ' s large clean air zone . the ULEZ be a brave and important policy which will be a historic legacy for the London Mayor . I will not speak for long , because I do not want to delay passage of this important Bill , which I have be happy to support my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) in bring to this place . today we will see whose side Labour be really on : the Labour Mayor of London , who have introduce this regressive and greenwashe tax on outer London , or the hard - work people in Greater London who be struggle to pay labour ' s tax of £ 12 . 50 per day , or £ 4 , 500 per year , for go to work , medical appointment or the supermarket . this week , the Leader of the Opposition have finally get off his fence and disgracefully back the Labour Mayor of London over the interest of hard - work londoner . today we have hear that the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) , for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) and for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) also back the Labour Mayor of London over their constituent — but the Conservatives will continue to back driver in Greater London and the home county , and I be pleased that the Government support the Bill . do my hon . friend agree that this be less about clean air and more about take my constituent in Watford and those elsewhere to the cleaner ? the scheme taxis hard - work people who just want to get to work . when we say " hard - work people " , that include those who work in hospital and who want to work elsewhere in London to contribute to the local economy , include the night - time economy . band that want to go and do gig in London be now be price out of be able to do so , and those who want to go and see they be be price out too . it be absolutely wrong and need to be stop . those who do not want to back the Bill really need to look in the mirror and consider why they be not help hard - work people . I thank my hon . friend , who be a real champion of his constituent . as he have just point out , people who come into London at night face the double charge of £ 12 . 50 to come in and then go out . that equally apply to the night - time industry . we have hear a lot about the scrappage scheme , but accord to the ULEZ datum from TfL , only one in three van driver who have apply for support have receive any . I completely agree with my hon . friend and my hon . friend the Member for Dartford that this tax on hard - work people be hurt people in the like of Bexley , which be inside the zone , and those just outside . with the Mayor of London take million of pound each month from the pocket of driver via fine and charge , while at the same time refuse to publish any meaningful evidence that prove that the ULEZ in outer London actually improve air quality , the public out there do not need I to tell they how much of a greenwashe con the ULEZ expansion really be . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , the hon . Gentleman have only just come in . the public do not need I to tell they that London devolution be break , with TfL require Government bail - out after Government bail - out , London now be the slow city in the world to drive in , and the Metropolitan police and London Fire Brigade in special measure . I credit my hon . friend for the speech he be give . be not the key issue here the democratic deficit for those outside the mayoral zone ? a decision be make by the Mayor , which we know be not back by a manifesto , and it be now impact the wide community my hon . and right hon . friend represent , from Harlow to Bexley and Crayford . surely the issue be how we navigate the desire to comply with the legislation — that be why the Bill from my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) do not say that we be scrap it entirely — and the ability of individual to have their say on whether this be the appropriate measure . I thank the Roads Minister for his intervention . I agree completely ; there be a huge democratic deficit at play here . as he correctly point out , the charge affect people outside the zone who need to come into London , and it be have a significant negative impact on the like of Crayford and Bexley village in my constituency , which be hundred of meter away from the so - call London boundary and whose business be lose customer every single day because of the expansion . the people of Bexley , who quite clearly reject this policy in the sham of a public consultation we have , have be completely ignore . that be why I have no doubt that in a few week ' time they will be vote , like I will , to sack Sadiq Khan after eight year of failure . the public out there do not need I to tell they that London and the surround county can not afford another four year of Sadiq Khan and Labour run London . the plan to toll the Blackwall tunnel and install camera on small residential close and road show that ULEZ be not the end of the Mayor ' s desire to hammer motorist in Bexley and outer London — people can look up Project Detroit themselves . on 2 May , Londoners will be able to vote for Susan Hall and vote for change , to make London well and safe for everybody . People in Greater London do not need I to tell they who be on their side ; they will see it with their own eye as the Labour party desperately try to block this Bill . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak on an issue that be of the utmost importance for my constituent . I draw all member ' attention to Bill no . 12 on the Order Paper , which be my private Member ' s Bill , the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( Amendment ) Bill . it be about clean air , take action on mould and give private landlord more power to take action — and ensure that they have to take action . my Bill be connect to the Bill we be debate , because my constituent often suffer the double whammy of live in poor , cheap housing that be on a main road . they be very unlikely to have a car — the majority of my constituent do not — and be more likely to suffer from the effect of air pollution and to have mould in their home . many of my constituent talk to I about this issue , so if we get to my Bill , I hope all member will support it . do my hon . friend agree that it would be well for we to spend parliamentary time look at a comprehensive strategy that tackle air pollution and respiratory condition , rather than go down this rabbit hole today ? the issue she raise with her legislation , which I hope the Government will support , could be a foundation stone for we to tackle the problem of housing and respiratory condition . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . there be many well thing we could be discuss here than try to turn back the clock on a progressive and life - change policy that have be bring in by the Mayor . we could be discuss the Renters ( Reform ) Bill or action on respiratory health — or a whole number of thing that my constituent would like to see we discuss instead of this Bill . I object to the principle of the Bill , as well as its substance . the Bill propose to " amend the boundary of the Greater London Low Emission Zone and Ultra Low Emission Zone ; to provide that Transport for London may not make an order amend those boundary without the consent of the Secretary of State " , and legislate for connect purpose . in London , we vote to have a Mayor and vote for who that Mayor would be , and we support our Mayor in London make decision about our road . Parliament grant the power to make decision on London - wide road charge scheme to the Mayor . this Bill be try to take power away from the Mayor — it be play politic with our constitutional arrangement , and it be quite clear why . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill be particularly disingenuous , because a number of the air quality mandate change be the result of european and national decision ? it be not just Sadiq Khan or other people unilaterally do it ; it be be do because the whole of Britain need to improve its air quality , which be currently produce real and harmful effect for our constituent . I be glad that my hon . friend have raise that point . the Government have ask council in Bristol and Birmingham , for example , to bring in clean air zone , and have ask for one to be bring in in London as well . I hope the Government will not be support the Bill today , because it would be against their policy of give more people clean air across the country . any propose change to devolve power would pose a threat to the exist power of the Mayor and the London Assembly , and to those of devolved institution across the country . it start here — where will it go ? we can not just have the Government take back power willy - nilly and whenever they like because a mayoral election be due to take place in a few week ' time . the Mayor of London introduce the world ' s first 24 - hour ulez in central London in 2019 to bring in health benefit , and expand it in 2021 . that expansion bring the health benefit that be the result of the first ulez to 5 million more people and 87 , 000 more child . roll that back would mean bad air for those 5 million people and 87 , 000 child . I can not believe that the Government would support this Bill . the ULEZ be a highly target scheme that be set to disincentivise frequent trip in non - compliant vehicle . it certainly have that effect on I : I have a diesel car , which I buy back in the day when we be tell that diesel be a well choice for the environment . I realise that it be not , and the fact that the ULEZ be come speed up my decision to not have a car . we do not have a car as a family — we have not have one for three year . I do not think we would have make that jump if it have not be for the ULEZ come in . we think we would see how it go , and it be go fine . we do not have a car ; we do not need one , and I be not drive around in a car that be pollute the air in Putney . be it not also the case that even if my hon . friend be to have a car , the vast majority of car — as she well know and as have be mention in this debate , which I have be listen to — be ULEZ compliant ? I have a 10 - year - old petrol car . I do not drive it in London , because I be not a maniac , but if I do I would not be ULEZ charge , because it be a small , lightweight petrol car . the vast majority be perfectly fine . I absolutely agree . a Member ask early for datum on the ULEZ scheme and the effect it have have . datum from the first month ' s report show a 10 percentage point increase in vehicle compliance in outer London , with 95 % of vehicle see drive in London on an average day now meet the ULEZ standard — up from 85 % when the consultation be launch in May 2022 . that mean that vehicle compliance rate in outer London have nearly catch up with inner London , which be have a good effect . the decision to expand the ULEZ be a difficult one for the Mayor , but it be feel necessary to save life , protect Londoners ' health and tackle the climate crisis . I agree , because in 2019 , toxic air contribute to around 4 , 000 premature death in London . just because we can not see the smog — as be the case back in the day of the great smog that lead to the first clean air Act — do not mean that it be not all around we . we can see the impact in our hospital . it be mainly parent and doctor who write to I in support of the legislation that the Mayor have introduce to clean up our air , because it be doctor who see the effect of air pollution : rise level of asthma , cancer , heart disease , stroke and dementia in our hospital . if no further action be take to reduce air pollution , over the next 30 year around 550 , 000 londoner will develop disease relate to poor air quality . that will cost the NHS and social care system in London £ 10 . 4 billion by 2050 . air pollution cost live , but it also cost our public service . the first , inner - London ULEZ contribute to a 30 % reduction in child be admit to hospital with asthma . I think those result speak for themselves . how can we argue against that ? take action on the climate emergency and clean air be one of the reason I become an MP . one of the first thing I do when I become an MP be set up the Putney Environment Commission , a rather grand - sound group of local people who want to take action locally , nationally and internationally . we have several open meeting to decide what we would do . one of the first thing we do be run Putney ' s first ever clean air fair . it be clean air that everyone want to take action on . hundred of people attend the fair . there be stall from brilliant local organisation , include friend of Wandsworth Park , Friends of Wimbledon Park , little Ninja UK , Wandsworth Living Streets , the Roehampton Garden Society , Putney Community Gardens , the Putney Society , Friends of the Earth Wandsworth , the Putney Pollution Busters , Green the Grid and Cycle Buddies . hon . member can see how many local organisation we have that really care about clean air . the number of resident who contribute to the event , and who come to check out the stall on the day and ask what they could do or how they could push for more action , show the huge concern in Putney , Roehampton , Southfields and Wandsworth town for clean air . we will be hold a second fair this year on 11 May , to which I invite all member here today . Mr Deputy Speaker , if you would like to come to that event , it be at Wandsworth park . we would love to see you there . we will be talk about action that everyone can take on clean air , about save our green space , about active travel and about green bus — all the way in which , alongside the ULEZ , action can be take . on so many occasion while out canvass I speak to parent who introduce I to their child who they say have asthma . it happen time after time . so many child in the school I visit be now affect . I go to a school in Roehampton recently and ask the headteacher what the main issue be . I be expect to talk about the curriculum and Ofsted — we do talk about that — or other issue , but she say that the main issue be mould and air quality , which be keep child off school . she have have to introduce adaption strategy in the school to take action on that . it be horrify that that be what she be say in this day and age . my hon . friend make an important point about active travel . I be a massive fan of active travel , as I know colleague present be too , but if we be to get more people walk , cycling , wheel and run , we need decent air quality in every town and city across the country . that be why it be so important to have thing that bring air quality back to an acceptable standard . absolutely . we want more people cycle and walk , to take car off the road and make they less congested for those who have to drive . we want to see an impact on active travel , but one that support the business on the roadside in our community . it be unfair on the majority of constituent who do not have a car and those who live on the main road in less expensive housing to bear the burden of air pollution . the hon . Lady be make a fair point about the impact of air pollution on the main road . do she therefore agree that it be somewhat strange that the large investment that the Labour Mayor of London will have make during his term as Mayor will be the £ 2 . 2 billion silvertown road tunnel , which will encourage heavy good vehicle to drive along the A2 and into central London ? that be why the Green party and the Conservatives be oppose to it . I would point to other , such as the Superloop — the new bus that will go around London — and the Elizabeth line . the Mayor will be able to invest more in public service because of the revenue from the ULEZ scheme , enable people to travel on our public transport . that be the action we need to take to really clean up our air . I have even take to the street for Clean Air Day to measure the clean air — or the polluted air — on Putney High Street . I use an ultra - fine particle counter , lend to I by the environmental research group at Imperial College London . it be amazing to take the counter out for the day and see the effect of air pollution . as I go down some of our main road — Upper Richmond Road , Lower Richmond Road and Putney High Street — I see a spike when bus and pollute car come by . I think there would be a constant level of dirty and polluted air , but it go up and down . I could see the impact of diesel bus and pollute car . I think of all the time that I have take my child to primary school in Wandsworth over 15 year , walk along very polluted road . all that time , it be damage their lung . this be worry for I to see and for my constituent to know about . my hon . friend be talk about damage to lung , but will she also mention the damage that air pollution do to the brain ? these microscopic particle and nanoparticle , such as PM2 . 5 , can cross the blood - brain barrier and can cause long - term developmental problem for child that mean the brain never function properly , even if the air be later clean up . that be why it be important to get it right now . air pollution be like a tick timebomb for our child . it have be show that child who live on polluted road in inner London have small lung , and that their lung will never fully grow . pollution also have an impact on the brain , potentially include dementia in later life . we owe it to our child to have this increase ULEZ zone to clean up our air . we have recently make progress on Putney High Street . since I do the monitoring , we have a large proportion of green bus — 80 % — which have make a significant difference . we need to get to 100 % , and the Mayor have a plan . we need this robust action for the sake of our health and child . both in this Chamber and on the Environment Bill Committee , I have call many time for a new clean air Act . mayor , include Sadiq Khan in London , need to introduce measure so that we be able to see an impact across the country . accord to Asthma + Lung UK , more than 600 , 000 people in Greater London have asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and nearly 60 % of they live in outer London . outer - London Members need to be concerned about their constituent and the impact on their health . I be pleased with the Mayor ' s action , include the increase to more than 1 , 400 zero - emission bus on London ' s road . he have also rapidly expand London ' s fleet of green bus , with the capital now boast more green bus than any other city in western Europe . he have also deliver a 170 % increase in the number of public electric vehicle charging point , with London now boast more than 11 , 000 — a third of the UK ' s total . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do she agree that the Mayor of London have consistently demonstrate that he be do everything in his power , under London ' s devolution settlement , to improve air quality for Londoners ? do she share my concern that he be somewhat hamstring by the policy of a Conservative Government who , for example , take the vehicle excise duty pay by London resident and spend it elsewhere in the country , and by the fact that London be the only city of its size and scale that have a public transport system that rely entirely on fare and charge for its income ? the Mayor of London be show leadership where he can , but he be entirely constrain by a Conservative Government who do not care about the lung health of Londoners . I absolutely agree . my hon . friend be right that a fair amount of the vehicle excise duty be not be spend in London . despite be hamstring in many way , the Mayor of London have be world - lead — he be go around the world to talk about the action he be take on clean air . what we really need be the Mayor of London be able to pull in the same direction as the Government . we need a national strategy that go as far and as fast on clean air as the Mayor have do in London . that be why it would be good if there be not only a Labour Mayor , but a London Government , because they would be able to work hand in hand to achieve that . that would be good for all of we wherever we go , and not just in London , but across the country . the hon . Lady criticise the funding in answer to her hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , but surely she be aware that the Department for Transport have give £ 6 . 4 billion in funding to the Mayor of London . that be not insignificant by any stretch . I thank the Minister for raise that , but that be not equivalent to the amount actually raise by Londoners and that go to the rest of the country , which we understand , but that should be a factor when talk about how the ULEZ money , for example , be pay . far to the Minister ' s point , there be the concern about those area outside ULEZ that do not receive the same amount of funding . they be represent by their local representative , who should have a strategy for respond to ULEZ be expand to those area of London as well . the Putney Society in my constituency be a local amenity group of fantastic local people . they have choose to concentrate on clean air because it be one of the issue of most concern . as a result of concern over the level of atmospheric pollution in Putney , especially on the high street , the society have carry out a series of citizen science exercise over the past 10 year or so to measure the level of nitrogen dioxide . those have be one - off exercise measure pollution for a month at a time . with the generous help and support of the local environmental health team , they have be able to mount a series of monthly test , enable they to see what the level look like in the long term . the high level they find be — not surprisingly — at the northern end of Putney High Street , where it be 62 . 9 microgram and 57 . 6 microgram per cubic metre of air . in Putney Bridge Road , it be almost as high at 50 . 7 microgram . Putney Cross and Upper Richmond Road be both in the mid - 40 . to put those result in context , we need to bear in mind that , although the agree statutory maximum level be 40 microgram per cubic metre of air , that be essentially an interim target level , whereas the agree World Health Organisation safe level be 10 microgram per cubic metre . consequently , the level that Putney Society record be still disturbingly high . I go into that detail because I do not think the high level we have on our London road be properly acknowledge in the Bill . rein back the good result of ULEZ to a small area would mean leave those large area outside the South Circular , which cut through my constituency , and people in the whole of that area with those high level of air pollution . that be simply not acceptable . I support the implementation of ULEZ because we have a public health emergency . I be concern about the impact on the health of child and vulnerable adult , so action be need . I do not want to die early , and I do not want any of my constituent to die early , but that be what be happen . the exist ulez have be prove to change behaviour , and we need that change in behaviour to clean our air so that more Londoners will benefit . I welcome the extension of the scrappage scheme , which happen after consultation , for low - income and disabled Londoners and for charity to have their minibus exempt . I welcome the additional time give to charity and small business to comply with ULEZ . I support and wish to see in the Bill no more bus route reduction , improvement in public transport and 100 % green bus . I welcome investment in well public service as a result of the fine charge by ULEZ and the introduction of the Superloop . we also need to invest in more safe cycle route , safe cycle storage and local cycle delivery bike . we be proud in Putney to have an e - bike delivery scheme for our local business , which pick up waste and get rid of it . we also have more local bus delivery route available . we need to make clear what be be fund by the ULEZ fund so that londoner see the benefit of investment in local service and cycle provision as well as know that the air be healthy and that their life will be healthy . I have be inspire by parent campaign for change , include Mums for Lungs , which be base locally , and Rosamund Adoo - Kissi - Debrah , the mother of Ella Kissi - Debrah , who die of asthma 11 year ago . if I have a daughter die in such tragic circumstance , I do not know what I would have do , but she have be so brave , courageous and inspirational in find out and expose the reason for Ella ' s death — the high level of pollution — and in take so much action to counter that issue . I also thank the Putney Society , Putney Pollution Busters , the London Sustainability Exchange , King ' s College London , Clean Air in London and the Healthy Air Coalition for all the work that they do expose pollution and take action together for local people . this be a huge issue for people across my constituency and across London . we can not start to meet clean air target without ULEZ . People in outer London be disproportionately affect , as more old people live in outer London . recent analysis by Asthma and Lung UK have show that the UK have the bad death rate for lung condition in western Europe . surely that demand urgent action , not rein in our action . toxic air be also shorten life . every year , 36 , 000 people in the UK die a premature death as a result of toxic air , and 4 , 000 of they be in London . we can see that we need action in London , but we also need it across the country . let we look at outer London . in Dartford , for example , the equivalent of 66 death a year be attributable to long - term exposure to particulate air pollution . this be not just an inner - London issue ; we need ulez expansion to the outer London borough . air pollution be kill we , and child be particularly vulnerable , but poor community and black , asian and minority ethnic community be the worst affected . eleven Londoners a day die prematurely because of air pollution . in Wandsworth — my constituent ' borough — 129 death every year be attributable to the effect of toxic air . before the ULEZ expansion , which the Bill would undo , only a small part of my constituency be cover by the ultra low emission zone , because the south circular cut through my constituency . my constituent face a postcode lottery , with only those on one side of the road cover by the clean air zone . why should only some of my constituent , who live on the right side of an arbitrary boundary , be able to breathe clean air ? it be far well to have a large area cover that be much more consistent with where the polluted air be . if we sit back and do nothing to reduce air pollution , about 550 , 000 londoner will develop disease . I have talk about the impact on small business . it be an issue that I have raise with small business on Putney High Street , who have say that the dirty air be hold back their business . we want Hammersmith bridge reopen — I can not resist say that and will do so whenever I can — but we also need the continuation of the ULEZ . a report commission by the Clean Air Fund conclude that improve air quality could bring an annual boost of £ 1 . 6 billion to the UK economy through 3 million additional working day and a reduction in early retirement . the evidence show we that ULEZ work , and that it have be hugely successful , with 5 million more people expect to breathe clean air . I end with the word of a constituent — a doctor — who write to I and say : " this Bill will send the capital backwards and be counter to the devolutionary system of our politic . just as we be begin to see the benefit of ULEZ , I be dismay … that this private Member ' s Bill will make already poor air quality bad , harm Londoners ' health — particularly that of child . to make matter bad , the Bill take the important decision about the air we breathe away from we as Londoners , and undermine our democratically elect mayor — who be accountable to we and will shortly be test in the May election . " that be where such a decision should be make . I urge all hon . member to put our health first , to support Mayor Sadiq Khan ' s action to clean up our air , and to oppose the Bill . I be disappointed that the opposition be use all the available time , to try to talk the Bill out , but I be not go to play that game . I will keep my speech short . I back the Bill on behalf of all the hard - work people of Watford who have to go into London to do their job : those who work at the hospital , and all the entertainer and musician . it have be good to be in the Chamber to discuss the Bill . I have listen intently to member on both side of the debate . I must begin by emphasise that Labour Front Benchers do not support the Bill — as must be obvious — and reject it in its entirety . there be a number of reason for that , but I shall focus on the two main reason . first , the Bill represent nothing other than a poor attempt at political point - scoring from a Government who be run out of idea and , ironically , run out of road . as for the second reason , you may be wonder , Mr Deputy Speaker , why a Welsh Member be speak out on a Bill relate to Greater London . I be a proud Unionist — I believe in our Union — but I be also proud to represent a devolved nation . I believe wholeheartedly in devolution and the benefit that it bring to the United Kingdom , and that be why I have feel so compel to speak out today . in my view , the most worrying aspect of the Bill be the fact that it represent yet another — Order . I just want to clarify that the hon . Lady be speak not in an official capacity , but on behalf of her constituent . yes , absolutely . I be speak on behalf of all the people in Pontypridd . as I be say , the Bill represent yet another devastating attack on devolution . this government repeatedly attack devolution . the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 ride roughshod over the devolved government , and the Bill seem to do the same . it also attack the ability of the democratically elect Mayor of London to meet legally bind air pollution target . let I explain my first point in more detail . the UK Government ' s approach to clean air zone have be completely inconsistent . they clearly do not feel strongly about this issue . they view this as an opportunity to politicise a deeply important issue with life - threaten implication — an issue that should have cross - party support , and one about which the vast majority of the United Kingdom feel strongly . I be refer , of course , to our environment , our environmental commitment , and the health and safety of all our citizen . this be either an instance of the Government turn their back on those vital matter , or pure political point - scoring . which be it ? perhaps it be both . let I highlight the hypocrisy of this Government , in case I have not be clear enough so far . they have require and indeed encourage the introduction of many other clean air zone across the country . they have support and continue to support those zone , and provide cash for scrappage in Bristol , Bath , Sheffield , Birmingham , Portsmouth and other area . give that they have encourage and require the introduction of clean air zone across the country , why not in London ? why be London the outlier ? of course , Labour member know exactly why . they also understand that improve and invest in other area of transport might remove the need for clean air zone . for example , invest in our public transport and ensure a well , more reliable and more affordable service would reduce the number of people on the road . there be other way to help we reach our environmental goal , and Labour know that the Bill be not the answer . labour be completely committed to protect our environment and tackle the climate crisis to give our child the future and opportunity that they deserve . a Labour Government would decarbonise the economy and ensure that we all have safe air to breathe . if the Government will not listen to the overwhelming evidence , and the environmental fact — if that be not enough for they to understand all this — they must at least attempt to empathise with the health case , because let we be clear : toxic air pollution be a public health crisis . air pollution be link to about 4 , 000 premature death a year in London , as we have hear repeatedly this afternoon . it lead to child grow up with stunt lung , and be link to the development of disease , range from asthma to heart disease and dementia . surely that alone be enough reason to support clean air zone . as for the practicality , the vast majority of London car — 19 in every 20 car see drive in Greater London — be now ulez compliant . if the public understand the importance of our environmental commitment and be willing to comply with the scheme , why be the Government try to change it now ? what possible motive could they have for do so ? labour welcome the decision of Transport for London and the Mayor of London to expand the scrappage scheme . since 21 August 2023 , every Londoner with a non - compliant vehicle have be eligible for a £ 2 , 000 grant to replace their vehicle , although central Government provide no financial support to the Mayor of London . it be important that tackle air pollution do not place an undue burden on those already struggle with the Tory cost of living crisis . family endure that crisis be sick with anxiety , and their local service be under immense pressure . I see that in my community , and I hear directly from my constituent about the devastating hardship that the Tory cost of living crisis continue to place on they and their family , whether it be because of mortgage payment go up , the cost of food , fuel and energy price continue to rise , or be unable to afford that much - long - for family holiday . all those thing be push family to the brink . let we be frank : we know where the blame firmly lie — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 19 April . business without Debate Puppy Import ( Prohibition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 June . consumer Pricing Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 June . broadcasting ( Listed Sporting Events ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 June . Employment ( Application Requirements ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 June . public Sector Website Impersonation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 June . armenian Genocide ( Recognition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 June . House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ( Abolition of by - Elections ) ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 June . whistleblowe Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Public Procurement ( british Goods and Services ) Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 15 March ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 26 April . licensing Hours Extensions Bill consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Object . Bill to be consider on Friday 26 April . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Covid - 19 Vaccine Diagnosis and Treatment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemption of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Regulatory Impact assessment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Barnett Formula ( Replacement ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . rule of Law ( Enforcement by Public Authorities ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Caravan site Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Conversion Practices ( prohibition ) Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 1 March ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 17 May . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present this petition on behalf of a number of constituent in Batley and Spen who have contact I about the contaminated blood scandal , include Caroline Elliott from Liversedge and Jonathan Harvey from Birkenshaw . it state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . " the Chancellor state in Treasury question just this week : " the Government have an absolute moral responsibility , not just to pay the compensation owe , but to pay it as speedily as possible . " — [ Official Report , 19 March 2024 ; Vol . 747 , c . 804 . ] with two victim of the scandal die on average every week , the Government must get on and finally deliver the long overdue justice that my constituent and family across the country deserve . it be on their behalf that I present this petition . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002943 ] on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . today the British Youth Council have declare insolvency . as you may know , the British Youth Council run the UK Youth Parliament , which sit here in this Chamber and hold the Youth Select Committee in this House . the organisation have be around for more than 50 year . it be set up by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to represent young people around the world , and have be support by the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . since it run programme in partnership with the House , will you and Mr Speaker inquire how these programme can continue , so that young people can continue to be give a voice in Britain , and so that if we can not save the British Youth Council from insolvency , we can at least save these programme ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . I think we all value the work of that organisation , particularly when the Youth Parliament sit here in the Chamber . they be the parliamentarian of tomorrow , after all . I will make certain that this be bring to the attention of Mr Speaker , and I will inform the hon . member of his response . Kettering General Hospital : Redevelopment Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank the Minister for her attendance and I thank Mr Speaker for grant I permission to hold this special debate . this be my 12th special parliamentary debate on Kettering General Hospital since May 2007 ; seven of those debate have be since September 2019 , so the House be familiar with the subject . the reason I keep apply for debate on Kettering General Hospital be that the redevelopment of the hospital be the no . 1 local priority for all resident in Kettering , and for I as the local Member of Parliament . our hospital be a much - love local institution . it have be in the town of Kettering since the year of Queen Victoria ' s diamond jubilee in 1897 . that be a great year for Kettering as not only be the hospital establish , but so be the much - love newspaper , the Northamptonshire Evening Telegraph . and here we be , 127 year on , with an extremely exciting programme of massive investment go into the hospital . it be a really important issue for Kettering , which be why I keep up the pressure on the Government to ensure that the redevelopment programme be deliver and succeed . as the local Member of Parliament , I be pleased that Kettering General Hospital ' s place in the national new hospital programme have be secure . that programme will see more than 40 hospital redevelop across the country . for KGH , it mean £ 500 million of capital investment , with a fully fund , improve and expand hospital on the same site . this be the big ever capital investment in KGH in its 127 - year history . initial enable work have already start and the project be due for completion in just six year , by 2030 . all of we who live locally know how important KGH be to everyone who live in the area . as the local MP , I have make it my main priority to make the case for this £ 500 million of extra investment . by 2030 , we should have an improve and expand hospital on the same site , the big ever new investment in our local hospital , and probably the big ever capital investment in Kettering itself . it will be of huge benefit to local people for many year to come . may I start by acknowledge the Government ' s commitment to the hospital ? this pledge represent a massive amount of money . on top of the £ 500 million , the Government also effectively inject £ 167 million into the hospital by write off its entire debt in 2020 . the path to the £ 500 million project have be complicated and tortuous . it start with a pledge of £ 46 million make in 2019 to redevelop the A & e into an urgent care hub on the site . in the same year , £ 350 million be pledge for the hospital rebuild . the combined total be £ 396 million , but we have now secure £ 500 million and climbing , so the investment be get big and the ambition be get great . the pledge be no long to replace the A & E with an urgent care hub , but to redevelop the entire hospital . that be hugely welcome and very significant for the local area . we need this investment because Kettering and north Northamptonshire be among the fast grow place in the whole country . the hospital serve the population of north Northamptonshire and south Leicestershire , where the growth in the local population have be almost double the national average over recent year . the late Office for National Statistics datum estimate above average percentage population growth of up to 40 % over the next 30 year . Corby , which be next door to Kettering , have the country ' s high birth rate . the hospital expect a 21 % increase in the number of over - 80 in the local area in the next five to 10 year . the area as a whole be commit to at least 35 , 000 new house over the next decade , and the local population in north Northamptonshire be set to rise by some 84 , 000 to over 400 , 000 people . the accident and emergency unit already see more than 300 patient every single day in a department that be sized to safely see only 110 , so the pressure on it be acute . basically , the A & E be full . it be first construct in 1994 , 30 year ago , to cope with just 45 , 000 attendance each year , but 170 , 000 attendance be expect by 2045 . seventy per cent of the building on the main site be more than 30 year old , and there be a maintenance backlog of more than £ 40 million . sixty per cent of the hospital estate be rate either poor or bad , and local people all know that investment in our local hospital be badly need . with credit to the Government , they have rightly accept that , which be why KGH be part of the new hospital programme . the plan to rebuild Kettering General Hospital be on track and be progress fast than many similar scheme across the country . the plan be to rebuild KGH on the same site , move the main service into two new six - storey building locate next door to each other . the Government have allocate over £ 500 million to fund these work , include up to £ 50 million for the new urgent care hub to replace the A & E and just under £ 50 million for the new power plant to power the new hospital . the inspirational director of strategy at Kettering General Hospital , Polly Grimmett , recently tell North Northamptonshire Council ' s health and scrutiny committee in January that the proposal for the new hospital to remain on the same site make progress " a lot simple and a lot easy " than other scheme . she say : " when you look at some of the other 40 scheme across the UK that be actually ahead of we initially , they slow down and we speed up , because they have be stick in public consultation for quite some time . " the difference with Kettering be that it have a local development consent order to do the work ; it own the land . there be not the same problem that other site be experience . polly go on to say that " it ' s a scheme that ' s fairly simple , win ' t get stick in the mire and can progress well . " she say that KGH have move to be " near the front " of other hospital build in the running . the first step in the redevelopment will see the new power plant be build on the site . this will replace the temporary steam boiler , put in as a temporary solution 12 year ago , which currently sit on flatbe lorry platform in the hospital car park and can regularly be see sneeze and splutter as they power the hospital . they be in urgent need of replacement , which be what the new energy centre will do . the first of the six - storey hospital building in the main scheme will be build in car park A , in the centre of the site , with some staff parking sadly be lose temporarily during that time , and nearby NHS office space will be demolish . once build 1 be operational , the second phase can begin , which will include the new main entrance face Rothwell Road . the main work on the main building can be expect to start in 2026 . an important part of the scheme be to keep the hospital run during the construction period . the first part of the scheme will be the energy plant to power the expand hospital . that really be the main focus of my remark in the debate today . the preparatory work on the hospital be under way , but I seek confirmation that we can expect spade in the ground to start the building of the energy plant sometime this summer . I hope the Minister can give that reassurance to I and local resident , who be keen to see work actually start on the site . the redevelopment of the hospital have be make more urgent by the discovery in February of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in the maternity wing . I know that where some of the other hospital of the 40 in the new hospital programme have discover RAAC , their investment profile have be speed up . very sadly , Kettering now also have RAAC — not to anything like the same extent as some other hospital , but it be badly affect the maternity and gynaecology wing . RAAC have be find in the roof where the maternity block be currently house . it have be deem unsafe , and the entire top floor have therefore be lose . it be also know from a previous building assessment that the building contain asbestos and be deem unsuitable for long - term repair . as such , could the Minister provide I with some reassurance that the investment profile for the rebuild can be speed up due to the discovery of RAAC ? that be an additional factor that be not realise when the original approval be give . my understanding , which I would like the Minister to kindly confirm , be that ground investigation work be currently under way and be likely to be complete by the end of this month . I think we can expect site hoarding and site office to be erect next month , which will have some impact on parking on site ; that some temporary generator be likely to be instal in May ; and that drainage diversion will also be start . if the Minister could give I some assurance that in the summer we can expect a start to the construction of the energy power plant itself , that would be appreciate . I also understand that there be to be high - voltage infrastructure work — basically , a cable be lay from the Field Street substation under the railway bridge to the hospital — because of the extra power requirement that the hospital will have . the business case approval process for all the hospital in these scheme be tortuous . there be three stage that have to be go through , and each stage take at least three month for approval by the new hospital programme team and NHS England . can I have some reassurance from the Minister that if the hospital get its final business case in — which be due in June — it could be turn around in a fortnight rather than three month , so that we can get the fund in place and the building under way ? can I also have some reassurance that not only the approval process from the new hospital programme team , but the approval process from NHS England , will be expedite ? lot of box have to be tick for the fund to flow , and resident be really keen to see the work under way . I be grateful to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for be in the Chair , and to Mr Speaker for allow I to hold this debate . in closing , I simply ask the Minister whether she would be kind enough to facilitate a meeting for I with the Hospitals Minister , the noble Lord Markham — who have previously be kind enough to visit the hospital — so that I can discuss with he the detail of the work that will be take place over the next few week and month . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Mr Hollobone ) on secure this important debate . he tirelessly campaign for Kettering , particularly for the new hospital there , and firmly hold Ministers ' foot to the fire on this issue . I reassure my hon . friend that the Government remain absolutely committed to a new hospital for Kettering , and that a number of milestone be be meet . as he point out , the trust be currently develop its refresh strategic outline business case , support by the new hospital programme team , to make sure that it align with our national approach of standardise all our new hospital to the Hospital 2 . 0 model . we expect a submission to the Department for the wide hospital work later this year . I thank the Minister for the start of her response , which have be very constructive . I support the Hospital 2 . 0 programme and its standardised design of the 40 new hospital — that be great . Kettering General Hospital have already submit its first two business case for the main scheme . instead of have to resubmit they all over again , please could it simply submit an addendum , so that it do not have to reinvent the wheel ? I absolutely take my hon . friend ' s point , particularly give the issue he raise about RAAC be discover on the maternity and gynae floor . I will take that point to the Hospitals Minister in the other place and the team , and I will put in his request to meet the Minister to discuss this . I understand the frustration that come when some work have be do already , and that it take time for the trust , which urgently want to get on and construct the new hospital . I will certainly take that away after the debate . I reassure my hon . friend , his constituent , the patient who use Kettering General Hospital and the staff who work there that the new hospital will be in place as soon as possible and will meet the 2030 deadline . I recognise the urgency . as part of the work , the energy centre be crucial to the development of the wide hospital scheme . we hear very eloquently from my hon . friend this afternoon — he have also explain this to I and other Ministers — that this be not just a crucial part of the new hospital plan , but that the current system be only ever mean to be a temporary measure ; he describe how fragile it be , so I recognise the urgency of start work on the new energy centre . my hon . friend will know that early work have commence on site . ground clearance and site survey be under way to prepare for the cabling that be need to provide the energy centre ' s power once it be complete . hoarding will shortly go up to allow more extensive work to start on site . I can reassure my hon . friend that his constituent will start to see progress on that very shortly . the trust have make progress , recently reach a new connection agreement with National Grid and agree the reserve capacity need for the energy centre . that be a vital step in secure the new hospital ' s energy requirement for the future and in deal with the imminent problem of the temporary energy facility that be keep the hospital go . the final piece of the jigsaw to get the construction of the energy centre under way be the full business case that the trust need to submit . I can reassure my hon . friend that that we be work with the new hospital programme team on this . we expect the case to be submit in June . the Hospitals Minister have commit that , subject to it meet the cost threshold and certain criterion , we can estimate a turnaround time for approval of two week , so hopefully we will start to see the construction of the energy centre this summer . I hope that give my hon . friend and his constituent reassurance . I thank the Minister for her reassurance . the purpose of these debate be to put pressure on the Government — that be the way Parliament work — but would she join I in apply gentle pressure on the trust ? the soon it can get the full business case in , the soon the thing can be approve and the fund can start to flow . absolutely . I have speak to the Hospitals Minister on the specific issue of Kettering , and he be in agreement ; if the trust can keep we update with the timeline and let minister know as soon as it submit the business case , he have give the commitment to try to turn it around within a couple of week . I would gently say to the trust that it be in its interest to get the case to we as soon as possible . I thank both my hon . friend and the Hospitals Minister for their involvement . it be right , be it not , that this two - week turnaround be a novel feature of the new hospital programme ? it be a groundbreake approval process that will turn the application round that quickly . where Kettering lead , other surely will follow . absolutely . I take hon . and right hon . member ' feedback about their frustration at how clear the red tape in this process sometimes take long than the construction . my hon . friend be right : this will be a novel way forward and could open the door for other trust that be proactive in secure approval for their business case in a more timely manner . in addition to the energy centre , the Government be release fund to support the trust overall for the new hospital that we wish to build at Kettering , both for the development of the business case more widely and for some early critical work to prepare the site for main construction . by the end of this financial year — which be early next week — the scheme will have receive over £ 5 million in development funding . that include the release of over £ 1 . 9 million in fee to support with the design , planning permission and a business case for a new multi - storey car park . further funding have also be release to support the development of business case for the reprovision of accommodation , which will be need during construction , the data centre and construction area and access road , which will also be require . I hope I have reassure my hon . friend that we be do extra work , in addition to the energy centre . we expect to receive the full business case and submission over the course of this year . again , we urge the trust to be as swift as it can with that , so that we can make some assessment and decision as quickly as possible . of course we will keep my hon . Friend update as the scheme progress and as further funding be release to the project , because we want to stay on track to complete the main construction of the new hospital by 2030 . in the short time I have , I want to update the House on the wide hospital programme , because I know that hon . member be often interested in the progress we be make . I be pleased to say that four of our new hospital be now open to patient : the Northern Centre for Cancer Care in Newcastle , the Royal Liverpool Hospital , the Louisa Martindale , also know as the 3Ts hospital , in Brighton , and the Northgate and Ferndene Hospitals in Northumberland . a further four hospital be expect to be open by the end of the next financial year : Salford Royal major trauma centre , the Dyson cancer centre in Bath , the national rehabilitation centre in Loughborough , and the Midland Metropolitan University Hospital . a further 18 hospital be in construction or well under way towards completion . we also have other capital programme , include over 100 rapid diagnostic centre that be open , 100 new surgical hub that be either open or in construction , and 160 mental health crisis centre — all capital project that will transform healthcare up and down England . in conclusion , I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Kettering . he have raise this issue , quite rightly , to hold our foot to the fire . he be fight tooth and nail for his constituent to get the new hospital up and run by 2030 . the energy centre will be the first major part of that construction . if the trust can get we the business case by June , the Hospitals Minister have commit to try to turn that round within a couple of week . that will be the start of the wide programme for the new hospital at Kettering . we will absolutely keep my hon . Friend update , and the new hospital programme team will continue to do all it can to meet the challenge of deliver such a large infrastructure project , to ensure that staff and patient have world - class facility in Kettering . question put and agree to . House adjourn .