Speaker ' s statement I wish to inform the House that I have receive a letter from the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , inform I of his resignation as Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I therefore declare the Chair vacant . I will announce the arrangement for the election of a new Chair in due course . I would also like to draw member ' attention to the fact that the book for enter the private member ' Bills ballot be now open . it will be open until the House rise today and while the House be sit tomorrow . the book will be available for member to sign in the No Lobby until 6 pm on both day , at which point it will be take to the Public Bill Office and will remain open for signature until the rise of the House . the ballot itself will be draw at 9 am this Thursday , in Committee Room 15 . an announcement set out these and other arrangement , and the date when the ten - minute rule motion can be make and presentation Bills introduce , have be publish in the Order Paper . we now come to question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer . may I welcome the new ministerial team as a whole , rather than go through each of they individually ? Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Pensions Triple Lock what assessment he have make of the potential impact of maintain the pension triple lock on the economy . as a result of the Government ' s triple lock , the basic state pension be now more than 50 % high in cash term than it be in 2011 . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be undertake his review at the moment , and I can not pre - empt that . now that Lord Cameron have return to the Cabinet , it be probably a good time for we to remember that the pension triple lock be a liberal Democrat initiative . the 2010 Liberal Democrat manifesto say : " we will uprate the state pension annually by whichever be the high of growth in earning , growth in price or 2 . 5 per cent . " give that the triple lock have now be operational for more than a decade , will the Chancellor and his team commit to put the triple lock in the next manifesto ? nice try . the triple lock be a conservative invention , deliver by the Conservatives , and it be something to which we remain committed . I welcome my hon . friend to her new role . give that it be right that we look after our pensioner and ensure that people be well look after in late life , it be important that we have the right tax base to fund our pension . will she meet I to consider way in which we can make our taxation system more family friendly , to encourage more people to have more child and to ensure that we can pay for our pension in the year ahead ? my right hon . friend be a brilliant advocate on these issue , and of course I would be delighted to meet he . food inflation what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of trend in the level of food inflation . what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of trend in the level of food inflation . what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of trend in the level of food inflation . UK food inflation have be drive largely by global factor and have already fall from 19 . 6 % to 12 . 3 % , and external forecast expect it to continue to fall . between March 2021 and April 2023 , the cost of first infant formula increase by 24 % , on average , with the cheap formula on the market increase by 45 % . that be an absolute catastrophe for family who rely on infant formula , but a bonanza for the formula company , which be make significant profit out of this . can the Chancellor tell I why he believe it be right for company to profit while family struggle to feed their baby ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to draw attention to the pressure on family cause by very high food inflation in a number of area , but I can tell she that the Competition and Markets Authority , which undertake a review of the grocery sector early this year , have not yet find evidence that high food price inflation be be drive by weak competition . but it be continue its review and look at the supply chain , and we will wait to hear what it say . recent research show that the most significant decline in UK child ' s height in the global ranking come after the UK coalition Government launch their austerity programme in 2010 . an expert in child growth rate at the Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health say of that 30 - place drop in rank that austerity " have clobber the height of child in the UK . " what lesson have the Chancellor learn from the UK Government ' s previous disastrous error of judgment in this area , and how will he be support vulnerable group in the future ? the lesson I have learn be straightforward : if we have not reduce the deficit by 80 % between 2010 and the start of the pandemic , we would not have be able to help family across the United Kingdom with payment of more than £ 3 , 000 , on average , include 700 , 000 household in Scotland and more than 1 million pensioner . even if the inflation rate be fall , food price be still go up considerably . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation reckon that they have go up at least twice as fast as the value of benefit since September 2021 . at the very least , can the Chancellor commit to ensure that the Department for Work and Pensions have enough resource to raise benefit at least in line with September ' s inflation rate ? the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be do his review at the moment to decide the correct amount by which to uprate benefit . if the hon . Gentleman look at this Government ' s record , he will see that we take the decision a year ago to uprate benefit by inflation , and we commit to £ 94 billion of measure to help family get through the cost of living crisis . food inflation will only get bad if our self - sufficiency in food production drop . will my right hon . friend consider fiscal measure to discourage the transfer of food - produce land to other use such as solar industrial installation ? my hon . friend be right to say that our food industry be very important to food security . we need to keep the priority constantly under review . nature be a very important part of that , but so too be food production . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be good to be address an elect Minister this morning . the consumer organisation which ? have describe Tesco and Sainsbury ' s as commit " dodgy " practice over food price and loyalty scheme , and Marks & Spencer have just post record profit on food sale , yet people up and down the nation of the UK be struggle to pay their food bill . will the Chancellor tell we which supermarket he have hold to account over rise food price ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that we have the supermarket in over the summer to make sure that they be do everything they could to bear down on food price inflation . however , the correct way for politician to look at this be at arm ' s length . we have the independent Competition and Markets Authority , which do a rigorous job and often do thing that politician disagree with , and it be look at the issue right now . in Canada , Ministers meet the five large grocery chain to get commitment on stabilise food price . other government be do similar thing . France ' s Finance Minister hold extensive talk with the food industry to get it to commit to freeze or cut price on 5 , 000 everyday product . be it not the case that , for people face crush food bill in Scotland and across the nation of the UK , this Westminster Government be do absolutely nothing ? I think £ 94 billion of support to help family up and down the country , include with food price and energy price , be a rather different answer from say that we be do nothing . energy Sector what fiscal step his Department be take to support the growth of the energy sector . since March 2021 , the Government have commit a total of £ 30 billion in public investment for the green industrial revolution . since then , the Chancellor have announce £ 6 billion for clean heat and improve energy efficiency , and £ 20 billion for carbon capture , usage and storage . alongside the launch of great British Nuclear and the small modular reactor competition , the Government have also invest £ 1 billion in Sizewell C . accord to a recent survey , 90 % of North sea oil and gas operator have reduce spending since the energy profit levy be introduce . I therefore welcome recent announcement on new North sea licence and the announcement before the summer of the energy security investment mechanism , by which the EPL will be remove when appropriate . can my hon . friend tell I when we can expect a response to the consultation on the ESIM and what plan this Government have to legislate for the mechanism ? will he meet I to discuss how investor confidence in our home - grow industry can be assure far ? introduce the price floor for the oil and gas industry come from the principle that , while it be right that oil and gas company pay a high share of tax during exceptional time , it be also right that when price fall to normal level , so do their tax rate . that be why we introduce the price floor in June and we have extensively engage with the industry since then . I know that legislating will provide some certainty ; we be look carefully at that and will respond soon . I will always be happy to meet with my hon . friend . the Labour party and the Co - operative party have set out a shared ambition for more community - own energy . that be not new : in Denmark , 52 % of wind energy be community own , and in Germany half of all onshore wind be community own . will the Government do far more to join that ambition of community - own energy here in Britain ? we have ambitious plan for energy generation and our energy security . we want to bring community with we , and we look at all option as we do so . Wealth Tax what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of introduce a wealth tax . of course , the UK do not have a single wealth tax , but it do have several taxis on wealth and asset , and those generate substantial revenue . the Government be commit to keep taxis low so that work people keep more of what they earn . the Government ' s approach to deliver fiscal sustainability be underpin by fairness , with those on the high income pay a large share . but the burden of tax be increasingly fall on work people ' s income , while the rich 50 family in the UK have alone accumulate a combine wealth equivalent to that of half the population . research from the University of Greenwich show that a wealth tax could generate £ 70 billion for much - need public service , so will the Government at least put forward a commission to investigate the matter and introduce a fair taxation policy ? I be not sure whether the hon . Lady be lobby I or Opposition Front Benchers with her comment , but she will be well aware that we do have a progressive tax system in the UK . it be important to remember that the top 5 % of taxpayer be project to pay nearly half of all income tax in 2023 - 24 ; and the top 1 % as much as 28 % . compare with what we inherit from Labour in 2010 , when the top 1 % of income tax payer pay 25 % and the top 5 % pay 43 % , the tax system be fair and more progressive under the Conservatives . those who live in home with driveway pay just 5 % vat when they charge their car from their home electricity , but those who live in terrace house have to pay 20 % vat to charge commercially . give that those who live in terrace house be often less wealthy , will the Minister , whom I congratulate on his new role , meet I and other member of the Conservative Environment Network to look at how we might level out that anomaly ? my right hon . friend be a great champion of such issue in her constituency and beyond . I be aware that she have already speak to the Chancellor about this issue , but I would be delighted , as always , to meet she and discuss it far . the Government have do a lot to raise personal allowance , for which our party have advocate for many year . however , give that that be an improvement for people at the bottom end of the income scale , will the Treasury now turn its view towards hard - work , middle - income family , who also want a reduction in their tax burden ? we appreciate the support for take 3 million of the lowest - pay people out of pay income tax altogether since 2010 — an important and significant change . I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , but I can not comment far , especially this close to a fiscal event . I welcome my hon . friend to his new post . do he share with I the humour that opposition back Benchers have proposal for new taxation that the Opposition Front Benchers be try to bat away , while those of we on the Government back Benches be tell the Government to cut taxis , and our Front Benchers keep bat that away ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment . I be afraid that what we be probably see be " same old labour " — we have hear this all before . what they be propose do not work in the ' 70 and it will not work now . we be very proud of our tax record , particularly take the low pay out of income tax . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister to his place . the Government have the opportunity next week to right an historical wrong by abolish non - dom tax status . the Chancellor could use that money to get our NHS back on its foot and to provide free breakfast club for all primary - age child , just as Labour have call for . be the abolition of non - dom tax status under consideration , or have the Prime Minister rule it out again , for personal reason ? the hon . Gentleman be well aware that there be real danger that what he be propose would make the UK a less attractive destination — that be a very important issue . the City pay for a huge amount of our NHS , for example , and non - dom taxpayer be liable to pay £ 8 . 5 billion in UK income tax in 2021 - 22 and invest more than £ 7 billion in the UK . benefit Uprating if he will have discussion with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on the potential merit of uprating benefit in line with inflation . the Government be commit to support household with the cost of living , deliver over £ 94 billion of support , include uprating benefit by 10 . 1 % this year . as I have say , the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be undertake his review , and I can not pre - empt that . figure from the Trussell Trust show that food bank usage be at its high ever level , and over the summer month a record 41 , 878 parcel of food be provide to 21 , 000 child in Scotland alone . meanwhile , child poverty cost the Government £ 39 billion per year in poor health and educational outcome . in order to tackle child poverty properly , will the Government commit to keep benefit in line with inflation and lift the two - child cap ? we understand that thing be really tough at the moment , which be why we have put in place £ 900 of cost of live support this year , but we also all need to work on bear down on inflation . we be see it start to come down , but we know it be still too high , and we hope we will reach the Prime Minister ' s pledge of halve inflation , because that be the big help we can give to household this year . defence Sector Investment what step his Department be take to help mitigate the potential impact of environmental , social and governance practice of financial institution on level of investment in the defence sector . the Secretary of State for Defence and my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , recently set out that the value within ESG practice of financial institution should never undermine capability develop to help we preserve peace and security . the Treasury recently consult on a potential regulatory framework for ESG rating provider , which aim to improve transparency and promote good conduct . I hope this will address some of the issue that defence company have raise . ESG be so vital when it come to invest in all our service , include defence . we be promise that the " Greening Finance " road map would come out at the end of 2022 . then we be tell that the consultation would come out by autumn this year . it be still just about autumn , and it be yet to come out . why be the Government kick ESG down the road ? why have they stop care about ESG , and when will we have the consultation to get a UK green taxonomy sort ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . [ interruption . ] I do ; I know how much he care about these issue and campaign on they frequently in the House , and I commend he for it . the Government be commit to deliver on a UK green taxonomy to provide investor with clarity on which economic activity should be label as green . we expect to consult this autumn . the green taxonomy will provide an important tool for enable the supply of relevant and reliable sustainability information for the market , and information will come in due course . one of the thing that concern Northern Ireland mp be the fact that when it come to defence job and get contract , Northern Ireland fall behind . the Minister will be aware that Thales , on the border of my constituency , be recently able to secure its workforce . what step can he take to ensure that each region of the United Kingdom , but especially Northern Ireland , can benefit from defence spending for the workforce ? we can do the job the same as everywhere else ; we just need the opportunity . I thank the hon . member for his question , which be incredibly important . as he know , this Government be absolutely committed to ensure that job in the defence sector , within an ESG framework , be protect . I be happy to meet he to discuss far the issue relate to his constituency and Northern Ireland . student Loan repayment : inflation what assessment he have make of the potential impact of inflation on the ability of graduate to repay student loan . tuition fee have be freeze for 2023 - 24 and 2024 - 25 , which will help affordability for future graduate . for new graduate , interest rate will move with the retail price index but will have nothing add . I thank the Minister for that response but , of course , interest rate have make matter much more difficult for graduate , who can not afford to both pay off their student loan and buy their own property . be there anything far that the Government can do to help graduate , who be struggle to do both ? one of the thing we could do be raise the threshold at which they start to pay back the loan . I thank my hon . friend for his question . the most important thing we can do be bear down on inflation , because that will bear down on interest rate , which affect we all . I would also point to the cost of live support that the Department for Education be provide for student . I would be happy to discuss the matter with he far . economic Growth what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the economic growth rate . our policy be increase economic growth , as the Office for Budget Responsibility confirm follow last year ' s autumn statement and the spring Budget , but the only way to secure high , sustainable , long - term growth be to bring down inflation . the OBR judge the Chancellor ' s last Budget to have no overall long - term impact on the level of potential productivity . do he expect the OBR to make a similar judgment of his next Budget ? I remind the hon . gentleman of what the OBR actually say about the spring Budget : " the overall impact on GDP be around 0 . 2 per cent in 2027 - 28 . this be the large upward revision we have make to potential output within our five - year forecast as a result of fiscal policy decision take by a government " . economic growth in northern Lincolnshire will be severely impact if change go ahead at British Steel ' s Scunthorpe work , which will result in redundancy and a massive impact on the supply chain . will my right hon . friend give an assurance that the Government will not proceed with any support for those change until a full economic assessment of the impact on the local area have be carry out ? I thank my hon . friend and , indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) for their extensive lobbying on this very important issue . I have have meeting with he and she , and with many other , to discuss it . I reassure he that we be absolutely committed to steel production in the United Kingdom , and to make sure that any change that be necessary support the local community that depend on steel production . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) to her place . I look forward to hold she to account . last month , the Chancellor ' s National Infrastructure Commission say that in order to unlock the billion of pound of private investment that be available to get our economy grow , we need a government who can " make good decision , fast . " why do the Chancellor think his Government have be make bad decision slowly for quite so long ? it might help the hon . Gentleman if I tell he some of the fact on infrastructure . since we make some reform to the asset pool framework in 2015 , UK and global infrastructure investment by pension fund have grow from £ 1 billion to around £ 27 billion , and the Solvency 2 reform could potentially unlock a furth £ 100 billion - worth of investment . that , Mr Speaker , be a list of very slow decision still be badly take . the Labour party have a raft of plan available to help drive economic growth and investment in every corner of our country , from speed up the grid to accelerate planning for critically important infrastructure . today , I be make they available to the Chancellor for free . would he like they , or would he rather call a general election ? unfortunately , nothing be free from the Labour party . funding plan by increase borrowing by £ 28 billion a year lead to high bill for family , high energy price and high mortgage . Pension Scheme Investment what step his Department be take to encourage pension scheme to invest in the UK . what step his Department be take to encourage pension scheme to invest in the UK . while we be bask in those question , would somebody like to answer they ? in my speech at Mansion House in July , I announce reform to boost pension , increase investment in UK business , and improve UK capital market competitiveness . those reform could result in over £ 1 , 000 a year of additional retirement income and unlock £ 75 billion - worth of investment in high - growth business . many local authority have give the investment manager for their pension fund a mandate to invest in infrastructure . what plan do my right hon . friend have to encourage great infrastructure investment by UK public sector pension fund ? I thank my hon . friend for his interest in this issue — of course , he have great experience of local government . work with the former Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , who I see be in the Chamber , we announce major reform in July to help local government pension fund lead the way in the transformation we be look for , in particular by send a direction that they should invest in pool worth more than £ 50 billion . that will make it easy for they to have the expertise necessary to invest in infrastructure . I welcome the proposal that my right hon . friend the Chancellor make in his Mansion House speech , which will increase investment in the United Kingdom . in his upcoming autumn statement , I implore he to build on his Budget announcement with a policy that be originally advocate for in a paper by the Adam Smith Institute , a think - tank I be proud to be patron of , as be set out in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I implore he to make full expensing permanent and to scrap the hate factory tax . I have a very small bone to pick with my right hon . friend , because when I become Chancellor I be hope to say that I be the first Chancellor who be once an entrepreneur , but he pip I to the post . however , he be absolutely right to say how important it be to have competitive business investment taxis . I be very proud in the spring Budget to introduce full expensing for three year , which give we some of the most competitive business taxis in the OECD . only five other country do that , and I will of course keep under review any possibility to extend that tax break . be investment not need in the UK give that 13 year of Tory rule have result in a £ 137 billion UK deficit ? meanwhile independent Ireland have a € 10 billion surplus from its economic growth and investment . that be an Ireland without the oil or natural resource of Scotland , which be now about to start a sovereign wealth fund . where do the fail crisis - hit UK go wrong and independent Ireland go right ? the clue , by the way , be in the question . I find that a very curious question . if the hon . member be proud of Scotland ' s natural resource , why do he want to cancel North sea oil and gas exploration , which be the very thing that can give family across the United Kingdom security from the energy shock we have see from thing such as the invasion of Ukraine ? there be encourage news in that the Pension Insurance Corporation have recently announce that it be go to invest in help to support the building of 1 , 200 new affordable home in this city . do the Chancellor agree that pension fund could be a very important source of capital for develop social rent housing around the country — Eden Housing Association , South Lakes Housing , and Westmorland and Furness Council , for example ? will he look at the rule and bring in great incentive for pension investment fund to invest in affordable housing across the country ? we be already work on proposal in that very area . broadly speak , we have one of the most robust and resilient pension fund sector in the world , but we be do a lot of work to remove the barrier to invest back into the UK . thing such as affordable housing , infrastructure and our growth business be area of great potential . public Sector Productivity and Public Spending what step his Department be take to increase public sector productivity . what step he be take to help ensure value for money in public spending . my hon . friend be rightly very focused on make sure that every single pound of taxpayer ' money be spend wisely , and I can assure he that the Government share that goal . in June , the previous Chief Secretary to the Treasury launch the public sector productivity programme , and we will provide an update at the autumn statement . estimate show that the public sector today be 7 . 5 % less productive than in the environment just before covid . do the Minister agree that this could possibly be down to a continue more liberal work from home ethic ? how much be this cost the taxpayer ? my hon . friend be right that public sector productivity must be improve . that be exactly what the review be look at and what we will address . I look forward to talk to he more about it in due course . I welcome the fact that the taxpayer have spend hundred of million of pound on remediation work at the Teesworks site in Redcar . I do not welcome the fact that the asset , include 90 % of the operate company and ten of million of pound of scrap , have be hand over by the Tees Valley Mayor to two private company , whose owner be laugh all the way to the bank . be that really good value for taxpayer ' money ? I think these claim have be address by the Mayor , and I will not have anything furth to say about they . Fuel Poverty what fiscal step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help support household in fuel poverty . the Government have take significant action to help household with rise energy price and the cost of live by provide one of the large package of support in Europe , total £ 94 billion . Orkney and Shetland have the bad rate of fuel poverty of anywhere in the country . provisional figure show that , for last winter , both Orkney and Shetland record record level of winter mortality . in his new office , will the Minister bring his colleague together from across Government to hear from agency such as THAW — tackle Household Affordable Warmth — in Orkney that be work to tackle fuel poverty , because if we can tackle fuel poverty in Orkney and Shetland , we can tackle fuel poverty ? we be incredibly sympathetic to the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , who have suffer a very difficult time . that be why we introduce the energy price guarantee , which will remain in place until March 2024 as a safety net . we continue to engage with lot of stakeholder and we be very happy to include the one he suggest . mortgage Support what step his Department be take to support homeowner with their mortgage . what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of change in mortgage interest rate over the course of this Parliament on household income . the path to low mortgage rate , as everybody in this House know , be through low inflation , which be why the Prime Minister and the Chancellor make halve inflation one of our five priority for this year . the late Bank of England forecast show that we be on track for that . in June , lender represent more than 90 % of the mortgage market agree to our new mortgage charter , which include new flexibility to help customer manage their repayment , back up by UK Finance ' s advertising campaign encourage anyone worried about their repayment to contact their lender . do the Minister agree that the good way we can help the next generation of homeowner be to increase the supply of home , bring back the help to buy ISA and stop the 35 - year mortgage share - ownership model , which only increase house price ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . on his first point , we be increase the number of home and we be optimistic that we will reach our target of deliver 1 million new home over this Parliament . secondly , the help to buy ISA be close to new account in 2019 , but exist holder can continue to save into their account . on his third point about stop 35 - year mortgage , it be important to have choice in the market and for people to make those choice for themselves . as a government we be commit to support people do just that . accord to the Centre for Economics and Business Research , mortgage increase be expect to cost UK household £ 9 billion this year and next . how on earth do the Government defend that ? as the hon . member know , the reason why we be in this position be that there be a global phenomenon . we be do what we can . we be work closely with the Bank of England and , over time , due to the policy of the Chancellor , the Prime Minister and this Government , interest rate will come down . I welcome the hon . member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) to his post as Financial Secretary . it have be a year since the Conservatives crash the economy . in 2023 so far , 1 . 5 million fix - term mortgage have expire , leave work people face sky - high increase in their mortgage cost . for people live in Wellingborough , for example , this Tory mortgage penalty mean that household be pay another £ 190 a month on top of everything else in a cost of living crisis . the truth be that work people be pay the price for the Conservatives crash the economy last autumn . do the Economic Secretary think that be fair ? I thank the shadow Minister for his kind word , at least in relation to I . it be important to recognise that in the eurozone , the United States and the UK there have be broadly similar increase in inflation and interest rate . we as a Government be confident that our policy will bring those down in due course . cost of living : Scotland whether he have have recent discussion with the Secretary of State for Scotland on the impact of increase in the cost of live on the scottish economy . we have announce UK - wide support for household , include cost of living payment , the energy price guarantee and the energy bill support scheme . take together , support for household be worth £ 94 billion and be among the large package in Europe . the Institute for Fiscal Studies recently report that wage in Scotland have rise by 1 . 5 % since 2015 , compare with 5 % in England . in the face of a cost of living crisis bring about by the conservative party ' s disastrous mini - Budget , wage simply be not keep up with the cost of living . what can the Minister commit the Government to do next to help make work pay ? will she , for example , support Labour ' s new deal for work people ? I be pleased to see this morning ' s figure , which show that wage be go ahead of inflation . this be very good news and I hope it spread to Scotland . Non - domicile resident : tax Status whether he plan to change the tax status of non - domicile resident in the UK . the Government want the UK to have a fair and internationally competitive tax system , design to bring in talented individual and investment that contribute to the growth of the UK economy . Non - domicile individual play an important role in fund our public service through their taxation contribution , and they pay UK tax on their UK source income and gain in the same way as everybody else . the non - dom tax status allow people to dodge million in taxis . Germany , France and Canada have close their non - dom tax loophole . can the Minister explain to taxpayer in Plymouth and across the country why he think it be fair that people who live here do not pay their taxis here ? as I say in the answer I give some moment ago , non - dom taxpayer make a significant contribution to UK tax , worth £ 8 . 5 billion in 2021 - 22 , with £ 7 billion more invest . the City , for example , pay half the cost of the NHS . mortgage Interest Rates what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of trend in the level of mortgage interest rate . the Government ' s mortgage charter be provide support to vulnerable household , and arrear and repossession remain at historic low . government support have help real household income rise by 2 . 7 % year on year in the late datum . with the economy flatlining and interest rate remain at 5 . 25 % and more than likely to remain above 5 % next year , it simply follow that household ' disposable income will continue to be squeeze throughout 2024 . surely the Chancellor agree that mortgage interest tax relief must be reintroduce to support household face high interest rate alongside inflation . as the hon . Member have already hear from the Chancellor , the economy be still grow . the late labour market datum show that income be go up at a high rate than inflation , so I do not recognise the picture that he paint . household Finances what assessment he have make of the financial position of household during winter 2023 - 24 . the Government continue to stand by household with one of Europe ' s large support package , amount to some £ 3 , 300 a household on average across 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 . the Minister will be aware that a big concern for rural constituency be the cost of fuel . the RAC have find that the margin enjoy by the big supermarket on fuel sale in October be double the figure for the year to date at 14p per litre . that reflect concern raise by the Competition and Markets Authority that although wholesale fuel price fall in September and October , retail price do not . what be the Treasury ' s assessment of the impact that these high margin will have on household in the come winter ? fuel duty be a major cost for household and business . we recognise that . that be why in the spring Budget 2023 , the Chancellor extend the 5p temporary duty cut . that be a £ 5 billion saving for motorist , worth £ 100 for the average motorist , but we always keep these thing under review . economic growth : Essex what step he be take to support economic growth in Essex . as my right hon . friend know , the Government be commit to support economic growth all over the country , but particularly in the wonderful county of Essex . the recently announce £ 1 . 1 billion long - term plan for town will , for example , provide £ 20 million of flexible funding over 10 year to Clacton , and there be many other measure . I welcome my hon . friend to his new role . I hope that he will know not only that the only way be Essex , but that Essex be a net contributor to the Treasury . we want more economic growth in Essex . in a week ' s time , we will have the autumn statement , so may I give a message to those on the Treasury Front Bench ? may I appeal to the Chancellor in particular to look at lower the rate of personal and business taxation , particularly the area of business rate , corporation tax and all aspect to do with enable people to keep more of the money they earn ? my right hon . friend tempt I to make tax policy . what I will say to she be that she will know that the Chancellor always keep these thing under review , as do the Government . indeed , we have a fiscal event shortly . can I ask the Minister why he say he want particularly to support investment and growth in Sussex ? [ interruption . ] be that the Tories revert to type in term of the blue wall ? order . I think it be Essex , not Sussex . they be all the same to I . have you get a question ? I do not think an answer be need . life Sciences Sector what fiscal step he be take to support the growth of the life science sector . life science be one of the Chancellor ' s key growth priority area . in May , he announce a significant new policy package , back by more than £ 650 million of funding , reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to support a thriving life science industry . I thank my hon . friend for that answer . life science be incredibly important , so will he focus investment on they in project such as BioYorkshire on the edge of my constituency , which bring together private , public and academic institution for huge benefit right across the board ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the benefit and importance of life science to the country . we be genuinely a world leader : I be out in Boston in the United States see the other world - lead area for life science , and it be not a patch on our . that be why , as an example , we be look to support life science through the investment zone programme , but , as I say , they be a key priority for the Chancellor as part of his growth agenda . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as we have a debate this afternoon , I will limit my comment to welcome my outstanding new colleague . the new Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , will brilliantly solve the problem of how we stop the state expand , build on the work of her wonderful predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . the new Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin and Harpenden ( Bim Afolami ) , will single - handedly ensure that the City and stock market remain competitive , build on the superb foundation lay by his predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) . the job of the new Financial Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) , will be to work out how to bring taxis down , follow in the footstep of his excellent predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , who as Health Secretary will no doubt be try to push they up . there be widespread consensus that growth be essential to the economy . with 800 , 000 few self - employ in the economy post covid and post IR35 , do the Chancellor agree that increase the vat threshold to £ 250 , 000 for new registration would boost growth and be a net gain in revenue term in the long run ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the support we give to small business . as he will know , support small business , particularly by roll over the retail , hospitality and leisure business rate discount of 75 % , be a major feature of the autumn statement . we will continue to keep under review anything that we can do to help our small business . I call the shadow Chancellor . I welcome all the new Ministers to their role and wish they well in they . the covid inquiry be uncover unsavoury example of Government mismanagement . we already know that Ministers ignore warning that their business loan scheme be vulnerable to organised crime , yet the Prime Minister leave the vault open to fraudster . will the Chancellor update the House on the late estimate of taxpayer ' money lose to fraud from the covid support scheme ? I be happy to tell the shadow Chancellor that as of September 2023 , HMRC ' s compliance effort on covid - 19 support scheme , which start when the scheme be set up in spring 2020 , have prevent the payment of or recover the overpayment of more than £ 1 . 6 billion of grant . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that answer , but accord to the House of Commons Library ' s most recent number , covid fraud loss total a staggering £ 7 . 2 billion — that be big than the fiscal headroom that he have in his spring Budget . More story be come to light about company with undeclared interest and personal protective equipment contract not deliver to the standard require . ahead of the autumn statement , will he confirm that the Government have also have to write off more than £ 8 . 7 billion from pandemic PPE contract ? let I say two thing . first , we have no quarter with any incidence of fraud . we have commence 51 criminal investigation into suspect fraud case and there have be a total of 80 arrest so far . let I also say that during the pandemic we introduce £ 400 billion of support to business and family up and down the country and , accord to the late figure from the Office for National Statistics , the result be that our economy be nearly 2 % big than pre - pandemic , while Germany ' s , for example , be only 0 . 3 % big . primary care capital allocation have pull the short straw for decade . may I encourage Treasury Ministers to look across Government and with developer — retrospectively if necessary — to ensure that when we build huge new housing estate , the primary care promise in the planning permission be actually provide ? I will take this question as well because my hon . friend have lobby I personally on this issue . literally no one in this House have work hard on it than he have . I have an example of the very problem he be talk about in my own constituency . he be right that it take too long for housing development capital to reach NHS primary care project . we will look into the issue carefully . in my constituency we be face with the potential closure of vital public service such as Cleckheaton town hall , Claremont House dementia care home and Batley sport and tennis centre . ultimately , that come down to cut impose on Kirklees Council of more than £ 1 billion since 2010 . ahead of next week ' s autumn statement , what conversation have the Chancellor have with his colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to ensure that our local authority be properly fund and the future of our vital public service be protect ? I be answer a lot of the topical question today because I have a new team . I want to reassure the hon . Lady that we be very aware of the financial pressure that local authority be under . I be have extensive discussion with the Communities Secretary . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . on the conservative Benches we all agree that the way to sustainable economic growth without inflation be through business investment . it be early day , but I wonder whether we have indication of how well full expensing be work for encourage business investment in this country . be the Chancellor consider make that full expensing permanent next week at the autumn statement ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s interest in the topic . one of the reason why our productivity be 15 % low than Germany ' s , for example , be that it invest 2 % more as a proportion of its gdp than we do in the UK . improve the rate of business investment be one of the most effective way to boost productivity and people ' s real disposable income . we be proud of what we introduce in the spring Budget , and we will continue to see whether it be possible to extend it far . London ' s homelessness challenge be at crisis point . More than 1 in 50 Londoners be in temporary accommodation . that equate to one child in every classroom . give that in some borough , only around 2 % of property be affordable for rent on local housing allowance , what assessment have the Chancellor make of the adequacy of local housing allowance rate ? with the Work and Pensions Secretary I continue to keep under review all the thing that have an impact on poverty rate . we be proud to have make progress in reduce the number of people live in absolute poverty after housing cost by 1 . 7 million since 2010 . when it come to homelessness , we be invest £ 2 billion over the next three year . rough sleeping be down 35 % since its peak . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Member ' s Financial Interests . the Chancellor have acknowledge that investment trust , which make up one third of all FTSE 250 company , be be plague by misguided cost disclosure legislation , which be make they appear unduly expensive . that be restrict investment and do not happen in any other country . in addition to the positive dialogue between we and with the Financial Conduct Authority , will he consider support the First Reading of Baroness Altman ' s private Member ' s Bill in the other place next week , which help to address this issue ? will he also address it in his autumn statement ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s expertise in this area , which be of great benefit to the House and to I as I consider fiscal measure . as we be so close to the autumn statement , I would say that the way that we treat cost in our investment and pension fund industry be not optimal , and we need to reform it . a short time after the former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , say he be " alarmed " by the amount of tax people be pay , he be out of a job . be he sack for highlight the Government ' s tax burden , the high for 70 year ? my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) do an excellent job and we all salute his brilliant work . if he be here now , he would remind the hon . Gentleman that we have the low tax burden of any european country in the G7 . I know that the Chancellor be aware of just how important the whisky industry be to the economy of rural Scotland . it be very disappointing that the policy of a duty freeze be not continue in the Budget . can he offer any reassurance that we will return to the policy of duty freeze in the autumn statement , and in next year ' s Budget ? we be incredibly supportive of the Scotch whisky industry . in fact , the Scotch Whisky Association be my first meeting in post . in nine out of 10 previous fiscal event we either cut or froze duty on whisky , and we have act to remove punitive tariff on Scotch whisky in the US market . it will not be a surprise to my right hon . friend that all taxis remain under review and he will not have long to wait until the next fiscal event . bank be take advantage of high interest rate to make bumper profit . a new poll show that people have have enough , with big support for a one - off windfall tax on bank profit , yet the Government have choose to slash the surcharge on bank profit . be it not time for a windfall tax on excess bank profit to help people who be hit hard by this crisis ? there be two thing I would say in response to that . first , it be important , when we talk about bank , that we have a globally broadly competitive tax regime , and we do not apologise for that in the Treasury . secondly , the hon . Gentleman should bear in mind that the reduction he talk about in term of the levy on bank be offset by rise corporation tax . I thank the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Stamford ( Gareth Davies ) for his recent visit to Darlington , where he open a new branch of Darlington Building Society . he will know from that visit the impact that Treasury job be have locally , include an additional £ 80 million of spending in our local economy . do he agree with I that Darlington Economic Campus be a fantastic levelling - up project , ensure that people can stay local but go far ? it be a great pleasure to visit my hon . friend and open the Darlington Building Society in his town , a very prominent business that be important for in - service banking facility . the Darlington campus be an important part of our Treasury levelling - up agenda and long may that continue . More than 3 million household in the UK owe an estimate £ 2 . 7 billion in the unregulated buy now , pay later sector . the Labour party have set out plan for urgent regulation of the sector . can the Minister confirm when the Government will do the same ? this be a complicated area of regulation and we be look at it very closely . the consultation close in April and we be work on it because it be very important we get it right , but I hear the hon . Lady ' s concern and will update the House in due course . while the shadow Chancellor be busy scroll through Wikipedia to copy and paste , the actual Chancellor have to look no far than the New Conservatives tax plan , which outline scrap the IR35 reform , increase the vat registration threshold to £ 250 , 000 , and deliver on the Prime Minister ' s pledge when he be Chancellor to bring a 1p cut in income tax in 2024 . I thank my hon . friend for add to the litany of option I have in front of I for the autumn statement . what I can say to he be what I say in my party conference speech : we be commit to lower the tax burden and will do so as soon as it be responsible to do so . some 28 % of people in Chester have a mortgage and they be still bear the burden of the Government ' s disastrous mini - budget . they deserve peace of mind that mortgage rate will come down soon , so what be the Chancellor go to do about it ? can I say gently to the hon . Lady that interest rate have go up by 3 % in the UK since then ? that be just above the United States and just below the eurozone , so this be a global phenomenon . there be no short cut to bring down interest rate . we have to support the Bank of England as it bear down on inflation and then we can bring mortgage rate down . will the Chancellor look at the red tape around the apprenticeship levy ? many business in my area , such as Asda , Amazon and DPD , all say that they want to take on more apprenticeship but that the red tape around how they spend the money be very difficult . this be something that he could change overnight , and really help to grow and boost our economy . I thank my hon . friend for draw attention to the apprenticeship levy , which have be a tremendous success in bring a rigour to technical qualification that be not there before . we be very open to reform to the apprenticeship levy , provide they stick to the fundamental principle that any investment be not in in - house training that would otherwise have happen , but in transferrable , passport - able training that someone can take with they if they move to another business . the NHS dental plan have be stick in the Treasury for month , while my constituent be wait year to see an NHS dentist . when the Chancellor make his autumn statement , will he also release the dental plan with the funding that be require so that we can get dental treatment back on track for our constituent ? I will not pre - empt what I be go to say next week , but I will say to the hon . Lady that , as a former Health Secretary , I be well aware of the pressure on NHS dentistry and its importance to all our constituent . give that inheritance tax be the least popular of all taxis at every income decile and that scrap it would not be inflationary , will my right hon . friend consider do so ? that be a very nice try , but my hon . friend will have to wait for a week . Opt - out saving be a little like auto - enrolment in pension . they help those on low income to save for a crisis — for the proverbial rainy day . give that more than 9 million people in this country be in work with no saving at all , will the Chancellor note the impressive result of a small trial of the opt - out saving system in Manchester , and encourage its expansion ? I would be happy to do that . the hon . Gentleman be right : if we be to grow fast as an economy , the other side of the coin be we that need to save more , and we should be encourage everyone in all income group to do so . will my right hon . friend seek to fix the anomaly that see man - make fully synthetic fuel tax at the same rate as their fossil equivalent ? I shall be happy to look into that issue in detail and get back to my hon . friend . yesterday in the House , in the context of labour ' s plan for a health service , the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions refer to the " poor old non - dom " . do the Chancellor agree with his colleague that people who live in this country but do not pay their taxis here can be accurately describe as poor ? because we attract wealth creator from all over the world — and this may be uncomfortable for those on the Opposition Benches — we generate huge amount of tax revenue . financial service pay for half the cost of run the NHS . I be in favour of get everyone to pay their fair share of tax , but I will not make reform that mean less tax revenue for the NHS . I call David Linden to ask the final question . the Westminster - make cost of living crisis be have a devastating impact on household income , particularly in Broomhouse , where many young homeowner be see mortgage price soar . will the Chancellor use the autumn statement to introduce mortgage interest tax relief to help people across Glasgow to deal with the cost of living crisis ? as the hon . Gentleman know , we have take enormous step over the past year to help family throughout Scotland to deal with cost of living pressure . if he really think that people in Scotland believe that this be a " make in Westminster " problem , when we have experience an invasion of Ukraine and a global pandemic , I simply say to he in return that after 16 year of SNP rule , GDP per head in Scotland be low , productivity be fall , employment be low , and inactivity be high — [ interruption . ] member need to give I a good reason not to bring they in at the end again : be careful ! let we come to the statement — [ interruption . ] angus , you ' ll find the door , I think , in a minute . Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories with permission , Mr Speaker , I will begin by respond to your helpful statement yesterday . the Foreign Secretary , the business manager and I all believe it be essential that this House properly scrutinise the work of the Foreign Office , especially as we face such a daunting set of challenge across the world . as Minister of State , I will follow the precedent set by successive government of different party , from the day of Lord Home and Lord Carrington to more recent time when Lord Mandelson serve in the Cabinet from the House of Lords . I will deputise for the Foreign Secretary in this House , make regular statement like today ' s and respect the primacy of this House in the normal way ; and , of course , the Foreign Secretary will appear before the House of Lords and relevant Committees regularly . the terrible event in Israel and Gaza have underline the critical importance of british diplomacy and development work . as Israel battle to defeat Hamas , the humanitarian situation remain extremely difficult . as the Prime Minister say last night , Israel must respect international humanitarian law . with service and communication in Gaza under unprecedented strain , it be difficult to be absolutely certain about how event be unfold , but the report we have have from partner make clear the appalling loss of life , include among child and aid worker , and the situation in hospital in Gaza City , notably Al - Shifa , be now acute . Al - Shifa have hundred of in - patient and be able to offer a set of service unavailable elsewhere in Gaza . report indicate that operation have stop due to the lack of fuel and supply , and that premature baby have die due to the lack of electricity . fuel be urgently need to power hospital as well as desalinisation plant to ensure access to clean water . hospital should be place of safety , able to treat patient with compassion . it be distress to see they unable to do so . every civilian death be heartbreaking , and it be impossible to comprehend the pain and loss that innocent Palestinians be endure . as the House know , since 7 October the Government have be engage intensively with our close ally and partner in the region . since my last update to the House , I have meet — in Birmingham on Sunday — representative of Islamic Relief , who still have humanitarian supply in Gaza , to hear clearly from they about the situation on the ground , and this morning I speak to Martin Griffiths , the head of the United Nations Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs . I will travel to the region overnight tonight . the new Foreign Secretary have discuss the situation with US Secretary of State Tony Blinken . the Government will be able to draw on his extensive regional experience in the week and month ahead . our goal remain unchanged . as I tell the House last week , we be focus on get life - save aid to those in need in Gaza ; support the safe return of hostage and british national ; back Israel ' s right to self - defence ; and prevent a dangerous regional escalation . our effort have contribute to some delivery of aid via the Rafah crossing and to over 150 british national be able to leave Gaza safely . since I speak to the House last week , more british national and their family have leave , and we will continue to offer all the support we can to those british national still in Gaza , so that they too can cross into Egypt . as the House know , we have more than double our aid to civilian in Gaza , commit £ 30 million , and we stand ready to do more . for over a week , british flight carry aid have be land in Egypt , with shipment include life - save item as well as the vital equipment that the Egyptian Red Crescent need to be able to manage donation from across the world effectively . we be also urge the israeli Government to increase humanitarian access , include through Rafah and by open up the Kerem Shalom crossing . at this point we assess that land presently offer the most viable and safe way to get humanitarian aid into Gaza in the quantity need , but we be also consider air and maritime option , include through our basis in Cyprus . the Government have be clear that all party to a conflict must afford civilian the protection that be their right under international law . that include respect the sanctity of hospital , so that doctor can continue to care for the sick and injure . event on 7 October and Hamas ' s subsequent statement have make it clear that they be a terrorist group who pose an existential threat to the very idea of an israeli state . Israel have a right to defend itself against this terrorist threat , to restore its security and to bring the hostage home , but there be thing that Israel must do as part of its response . we have impress this on the israeli Government : they must act within international law ; they must take every precaution to minimise civilian casualty , limit attack to military target ; and they must stop extremist settler violence in the west bank . at the same time , we should be under no illusion . Hamas have choose to embed themselves within the civilian population , and their willingness to sacrifice innocent Palestinians in this way only bring home their inhumanity . alleviate the suffering be our foremost priority . we welcome any initiative that would allow more aid to be deliver and hostage to be release . we have therefore consistently call for humanitarian pause . four - hour pause in northern Gaza be an important first step , but long pause that cover wide area will be need . we be discuss with the UN and other partner how good to achieve this . we must avoid measure that serve only to benefit Hamas and allow they to entrench their position . at the same time , we need all party to the conflict to abide by any pause , allow sufficient time and security for civilian to move and for aid to be deliver . respond to the immediate crisis be critical , but we also need to do more to create a new political horizon . the whole House know that only one answer have come close to create peace in these troubled land : a two - state solution . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I would have like to have start by welcome the new Foreign Secretary to his place , but I can not do so because he be not here . despite my respect for the Minister , he be not the Foreign Secretary . we do not know when or how this House will hear from the Foreign Secretary because he be not a member . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Seely , be you go to be quiet ? yes . right — in which case , the shadow Foreign Secretary may continue . David Cameron be the seventh Foreign Secretary in seven year of Tory chaos . he be force to resign in failure over a matter of foreign policy . the Prime Minister have look at each of the 350 Conservative Members and decide that none of they would be well at represent Britain ' s interest on the world stage . the Prime Minister claim he be for change , but instead he have resurrect yesterday ' s failure with an honour . that decision raise serious question for this House , but I know you share those concern , Mr Speaker . at a time of grave international crisis and at a moment of war in Europe , with a more assertive China , a climate emergency and a horrify conflict in Gaza , this House need Government accountability more than ever . will the Minister commit to work closely with Mr Speaker to ensure that the Opposition and all member of Parliament can hold the Foreign Secretary to account ? I turn to the horror of Gaza . More than 11 , 000 Palestinians have reportedly be kill , with two third of the dead be woman and child . this be shocking and devastating . every civilian death be an equal tragedy . do the Minister agree that the number of palestinian civilian and child who have be kill over the past month be intolerable ? and do he agree that Israel must make change to how it be fight this war , by take urgent and concrete step to protect civilian life ? I be gravely concern by the desperate report from hospital in northern Gaza . these hospital be already overstretch with the wounded , short of fuel and fill with civilian seek shelter . doctor be now force to make impossible choice as they try to care for the wounded and newborn , without power . some of those newborn have now lose their life — unbearable . medical establishment have special protection under international law . they should never be target or use as shield . all party must follow international law , act with necessity , distinction , proportionality and precaution . allegation of breach should always be treat with the utmost seriousness . the Minister say last week that the Government support the independence of the International Criminal Court , as do the Labour party , but he fail to answer whether the Government recognise its jurisdiction to address the conduct of all party in Gaza . as Prime Minister , Boris Johnson reject that jurisdiction and attack the court . labour recognise the ICC ' s jurisdiction . can the Minister clarify his Government ' s position today ? Gaza be in a humanitarian catastrophe . More than 1 . 5 million people have be displace , and there be desperate shortage of basic essential . do the Minister agree that the short pause in the north be clearly not enough ? gazan need aid now . they need medicine now . they need water now . they need food now . they need fuel now . a full , comprehensive and immediate humanitarian pause in fighting across the whole of Gaza be need now to alleviate palestinian suffering and in order for Hamas terrorist to release the hostage . Hamas ' s state aim be to wipe Israel off the map . they commit the most brutal attack on Jews since the holocaust and now they be use innocent Palestinians as human shield . I would like to register my shock that not every Member of this House can say this truth : Hamas be terrorist . we must not give up on the narrow opening that keep the prospect of peace alive . that mean prevent escalation , condemn violence from settler in the west bank , condemn rocket attack on Israel from Iran ' s proxy in Lebanon and elsewhere , and create a future where Gaza be not subject to occupation . meanwhile , international diplomacy evolve and the fact on the ground be change day to day , in relation to both hostage be rescue and Hamas ' s capability to carry out attack such as we see on 7 October . as the Leader of the opposition set out to Chatham House , we must move to a full " cessation of fighting as quickly as possible . . . the reality be that neither the long - term security of Israel nor long - term justice for Palestine can be deliver by bomb and bullet . " we must seek a path to a political process that lead to two state , a secure Israel and an independent Palestine . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment , and perhaps I should start by address those about the Foreign Secretary . have a former Prime Minister and party leader as our Foreign Secretary , wherever one sit in this House , must be a plus . they will be able to exert british influence and policy highly effectively overseas , and I greatly welcome the appointment of Lord Cameron to the position of Foreign Secretary . as the House will know , he be an extremely experienced parliamentarian , and I have no doubt whatsoever that the House , the Foreign Office and the Government will gain enormously from his presence . the right hon . Gentleman ask I whether I will commit to work closely with you , Mr Speaker , and of course there be only one answer to that question . that wasn ' t much reassurance , be it ? [ laughter . ] in addition , I will seek to ensure the full possible accountability , as you set it out , Mr Speaker . the right hon . Gentleman speak of the scale of death and misery . all death of civilian be to be profoundly regret . he talk about the scene from the Al - Shifa Hospital , which will have shock every member of this House . he , like I , will be aware that 102 humanitarian worker , who place their life in jeopardy to support their fellow human being , have lose their life . he ask I about the ICC . it be not for I to fetter or speak in the place of its chief prosecutor , but the right hon . Gentleman will know that he have speak and will do so again . the right hon . Gentleman call for the hostage to be release , and I hope that everyone in this House will echo that . he say that Hamas be terrorist and suggest that some do not recognise that . I agree with he and hope that every Member of the House will make it clear that Hamas be terrorist . a dreadful pogrom take place on 7 October , where more jewish people lose their life in a day than at any time since the holocaust , and that piece of information be fundamental to our appreciation of the event to which he refer . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . as of today , I be inform that no more aid will reach Gaza , not because it can not get to the Rafah crossing or because it be pile up in Egypt , but because the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees have no fuel leave and so the aid can not be redistribute . so although I really appreciate the Government look at maritime and air effort , and , crucially , at the need to open a second aid cross to the west bank , there be no point — it be futile — unless we get the fuel to the UN . will my right hon . friend reassure I as to what be be do to change that situation ? secondly , have the Foreign Office ' s overseas judicial assistance assessment increase since 7 October — yes or no ? my hon . friend ask I about the position on fuel . fuel be desperately need today — it be go to run out . the United Nations have be access dirty fuel , but now that be at an end and we be incredibly worried about the situation . we be talk to the key american humanitarian intervenor , Mr Satterfield , about this . we be work diplomatically to do everything we can to make sure that the position on fuel be address , as we have be do since I last update the House . I do not catch the first part of my hon . friend ' s final question , so I will write to she on that point . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . I thank the Minister of State for prior sight of his statement , but here we be on day one of the new fcdo regime and already we see the absurdity of have a Foreign Secretary who be unable to come to speak in this Chamber to elect member at a time of grave international crisis . the Minister be right to highlight the appalling loss of life in Gaza , particularly among child and aid worker . sadly , there be little sign of that end soon as the bombardment intensifie . he be also right to say that a humanitarian crisis be unfold . a couple of week ago , I ask the previous Secretary of State whether he have be make aware , or have reasonable ground to believe , that Israel have breach international humanitarian law in its response to the atrocity of 7 October . he steadfastly refuse to answer that question , so I ask the Minister the same question . if he have , what representation have he make to the israeli Government and what response have he have ? there can only be a political solution to this crisis , and one have to be find before the entire region be engulf . that be why a ceasefire be essential : to end the unprecedented level of killing and destruction , allow full humanitarian access , secure the release of the hostage and find a political solution that do not include Hamas . four - hour pause be not the answer . can we expect the new Foreign Secretary to change tack and support our call for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire , so that there be space for that political solution to be find ? tomorrow , the House should have an opportunity to show its support for a ceasefire . I and every one of my SNP colleague will be there to support an immediate ceasefire , and I would expect Labour party member from Scotland to be in the Lobby with we . without justice , there can be no peace , this horrific cycle of violence will continue and more israeli and palestinian life will be lose . the hon . Gentleman underline the loss of life and the cause of it . he know our position on a ceasefire — it be a position share by member on the Opposition Front Bench — and he also know the absolute commitment we have to try to drive forward pause . they must be safe pause for the delivery of humanitarian relief , but he know of our commitment on that . the hon . Gentleman ask I about humanitarian law . Robert Mardini , the director general of the International Committee of the Red Cross , have make clear that Gaza hospital , treat hundred of wounded people , can not be target under any circumstance . the hon . Gentleman will know that the icrc be the guardian of international humanitarian law and the Geneva convention , and Robert Mardini have say : " hospital be to be absolutely protect at all time . " finally , the hon . Gentleman make a point about a political solution . I draw his attention to my final comment in my statement , about how we have to focus on that and on the two - state solution , and about the need for hope and opportunity to drive forward the politic in this dreadful situation . rise — Order . I expect to allow question on the statement to run for about an hour , but because there be so many of the same member wish to speak in the debate on the King ' s Speech , I hope we can have short question and speedy answer . as my right hon . friend have say , follow the unprovoked slaughter of its citizen , Israel have a right to pursue and destroy the terrorist force . it be terrible that the ordinary citizen of Gaza be pay the price for this , as Hamas would have know , but even if Israel be able to degrade and destroy the Hamas force , the Hamas mindset will remain — a Hamas mindset that be fund and support by Iran . Iran do not want there to be peace between arab state and Israel because the iranian regime do not want Israel to exist . when will the Government take firm measure ? member from across the House have ask when the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , for example , will be proscribe and we have never be give a good reason why it be not . what be the answer ? I hear what he say about the irgc , and I know that he have already be in contact with the Foreign Secretary on exactly that point . I hope he will accept that we do not carry on a running commentary on issue such as proscription , but the House and the Foreign Secretary have hear what he say . I be still not clear whether the right hon . Gentleman agree with Labour that the ICC have jurisdiction over the conduct of all party in Gaza . if he do , then that be a very welcome change from the position of Prime Minister Boris Johnson . will he clarify that ? I repeat what I say last week . it be not for minister to seek to state where the ICC have jurisdiction ; that be for the chief prosecutor . the chief prosecutor have not be silent on this matter , and I be sure he will continue to express his view . whether we like it or not , Israel will carry on fighting until it have establish control of the area from which it be attack . the question that then arise be what happen next . if Israel simply withdraw , Hamas will reappear . at least one moderate arab state believe that a two - state solution will have to be impose and police . be the Government giving thought as to who might carry out that job ? otherwise , the outcome that they want — a two - state solution — be wholly impracticable . my right hon . friend be entirely right about that , and entirely right that Israel have an absolute right of self - defence in this matter . on the option to which he allude , I can assure he that a great deal of thought be go on , not only in Britain but across the region and elsewhere . a last peace and a two - state solution be the only way to guarantee dignity and security for both Palestinians and Israelis . Hamas , a terrorist organisation , can not be part of that , but a month after their contemptable attack on Israel , it be clear that a military solution be not work . it be not remove Hamas , and instead we have the humanitarian catastrophe to which the Minister refer . do he agree that the way to achieve that peace and a two - state solution be to back a political solution with an immediate bilateral ceasefire , explicitly contingent on both party adhere to it , so that if one party break the ceasefire , a military operation remain on the table ? the hon . Lady be entirely right about the importance of a political solution . she know the position of the Government and Members on the Opposition Front Bench on the issue of ceasefire , but I hope she will draw some comfort from the emphasis on extend pause that we be now see . on the politic , I remind she that the great progress that be make at Oslo , which bring thing so tantalisingly close , take place on the back of the first intifada . every right thinking person want to see an end to fighting and a durable peace for Palestinians and Israelis , but Hamas have make absolutely clear that there will be no such peace so long as the state of Israel continue to exist . will my right hon . friend say a bit more about what have be happen at the Al - Shifa Hospital and other hospital in Gaza ? have he see the report and the footage circulate of Hamas fighter use those hospital as basis for operation , put civilian ' live at risk ? my right hon . friend , who know a great deal about these matter , be correct . Hamas have make clear that they do not seek a ceasefire and indeed seek to repeat the awful event of 7 October . as far as the Al - Shifa Hospital be concern , he , like I , will have see the horrific picture on television last night , and I refer specifically to the awful effect on baby that be display . recently , several United Nations expert give a dire warning to the world , state they believe that " the palestinian people be at grave risk of genocide " , and that the time be now " run out " to prevent such a tragedy . furthermore , they make it clear that Israel ' s ally share the responsibility for that and must act now to prevent a genocide from take place . give those warning , will the Minister finally stand with 76 % of the british public and call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza ? we will continue to focus on the importance of humanitarian pause , but also try to make sure that , when the opportunity of a pause present itself , we be able to get critical humanitarian supply to those in desperate need . away from the horror of Israel and Gaza , there be an unfold tragedy on the west bank , with the killing of well over 100 , get on for 200 , Palestinians by settler and the Israel Defence Forces . in his statement , my right hon . friend rightly urge Israel to provide protection from they . if the state of Israel decline to do so and the killing continue , would he consider the intervention of a UN peacekeeping force to keep the peace in that part of the world ? we have condemn the settler violence without qualification . on the work of the United Nations , there will be many opportunity in the future , I hope , and we will neglect none of they . I share what the Minister have say about the humanitarian tragedy that we be witness all the time on our television . we must try to unlock a process towards peace , and the issue of the hostage be key to that . what step have he take so far and what further step will be take by the new Foreign Secretary to ensure that the hostage be bring home ? I really believe that that could unlock the route to peace . I thank the right hon . Lady for her comment . she have speak movingly and with great expertise and humanity about this situation both on the medium and in the House . if she will forgive I , we can not give a running commentary on what we be do to try to recover the hostage . I hope that she will accept my word that we be do everything , across Government and internationally , to try to get they home as soon as we can . the director of the FBI have say that Hamas pose the great security risk to the United States and the west since isis a decade ago . do the Minister of State agree with that assessment , and what be the Government do to work with our international partner to reduce that threat both in the region and here at home ? the threat of Hamas , which my right hon . friend set out very clearly , be undoubtedly true . it be part of Israel ' s legitimate position that it can exercise its right to self - defence and go after the dreadful terrorist who perpetrate that awful act . thousand of innocent man , woman and child have be kill and thousand more wound in this conflict over the past month . as the ground operation and bombing campaign intensifie , as encircled hospital run out of power and medicine , as baby be leave to die outside their incubator , and as more than 2 million Palestinians remain trap in a never - end humanitarian nightmare , do the Minister agree that the international community must protect civilian ? if he do , why will the Government not join I in press for an immediate ceasefire to end the bloodshed , allow desperately need aid to reach those most in need , and create space for meaningful negotiation and a peaceful resolution ? the hon . Gentleman speak with great passion and eloquence on this matter in the House . I can do no well than repeat what the Prime Minister say last night in his speech at Mansion House . he say that Israel " must take all possible measure to protect innocent civilian , include at hospital " . my right hon . friend and his shadow have speak of hospital . I have to tell he that there be now video evidence of suicide vest , rocket - propel grenade , motorcycle use to kidnap Israelis to Gaza , nappy , and chair with rope to hold hostage be find in the basement of the Al - Rantisi Hospital in Gaza . the hospital be obviously use by Hamas as a command centre and be believe to have hold israeli hostage . do my right hon . friend agree that use hospital in this way as place to imprison hostage and keep weapon be an outrageous breach of international law ? yes . Gaza be face a humanitarian crisis before 7 October . the Government cut funding to UNRWA from £ 50 million to £ 10 million . the clock be tick . hospital be run out of fuel , food and water supply be almost deplete , and until a large - scale humanitarian operation be in place , many more people will needlessly die . will the Minister update we on what progress the Government have make to secure a humanitarian resolution through the UN Security Council ? we be work night and day for humanitarian access . on the subject of support for UNRWA , we increase aid very substantially , as the hon . Lady know , before 7 October . since then , we have allocate £ 30 million of humanitarian aid and we will do more if it be require . several hundred of my constituent have write to I deeply concerned about the loss of civilian life and want the fighting to stop , which we all want . last week , my right hon . Friend call for Israel to take measure to protect civilian . I say that we need to see Israel take such measure , but civilian have continue to die , especially in hospital . please can he double down on that request to Israel to take measure to protect civilian ? Mr Speaker , if I may , in the meantime in Sudan — Order . I have ask everybody to be brief so that other people can get in . we should not be drive by self - centre behaviour . my right hon . friend make a most important humanitarian point and she may rest assure that the Government be seize of it . France ' s President Macron have call for a ceasefire , join other european nation such as Spain , Norway , Portugal and Ireland , as well as the UN Secretary - General . secure a negotiate ceasefire — one that be bind on all side — will require a huge diplomatic effort , so be it not time for our Government to add their weight to the push for a ceasefire , rather than dismiss out of hand a proposal that have grow international support ? the hon . Member will know that , in order to have a ceasefire , we need both party to agree to it . Hamas have make it absolutely clear that they be not interested in a ceasefire . they make it clear that they want to repeat the action of 7 October . I believe the right position be to press for pause . that be the position of the Government and of the official Opposition . I understand that just four Conservative Members have visit Israel since 7 October : the Prime Minister , the former Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) and I . last week , when I be there , I do see evidence of humanitarian protection by the IDF force . I also see video and photograph of the thing that happen in some of the kibbutzim , and they be , quite simply , crime against humanity . do the Minister agree that there be no moral equivalence between Hamas and the sovereign independent state of Israel ? yes , I completely agree with what my hon . friend have say . he should know that the Prime Minister and other member of the Government have be in continuous contact with Prime Minister Netanyahu , include by hold frequent conversation and discussion . however , I have to say that it would be helpful if all those call for Israel to protect hospital would also call on Hamas to vacate the hospital and stop use civilian as human shield . today , Alon - Lee Green , the director of Standing together , the large cross - community organisation in Israel , post a video of a soldier in Gaza say : " I ' m on the beach in Gaza , in Gush Katif . I ' m safe . I ' m happy . I and my friend conquer Beit Lahia , Al Atatra and Sulatin and we ' re move on and we ' re go to conquer the rest of Gaza . I ' m safe . I ' m happy . I ' m enjoy the big opportunity of my lifetime . I love you all and I couldn ' t be happy to be where I be — do God ' s work . " Alon - Lee Green say : " what ' s go on in Gaza do not only go against the palestinian interest , it go also against my people ' interest , the jewish israeli interest . " also today , we have Danny Danon , a Likud member and former ambassador , and Ram Ben Barak , a Yesh Atid opposition member , say that Israel should expel all Palestinians from Gaza . what be we do to restrain the israeli Government and commentator ? we have always make it clear to Israel that we be its close possible friend , but friend give candid advice and do not always say what people want to hear . the british Government will continue — with , I believe , the strong support of this House — to make the right point to the israeli Government , and we be able to do so because of our extremely close alliance and friendship with they . the human misery and death on both side , israeli and palestinian , be the bad I have witness since I become a Member of this House , and they will be solve only by a long - term political solution . will my right hon . friend , with whom I totally agree , explain what the British Government be do in strategic planning to bring about a two - state solution ? there be an immense amount of work go on about how we get to the point where we can achieve that . as I set out in my statement , there be no alternative to the two - state solution , and all interested party should get behind that . I have a dreadful 40 - hour labour when give birth to my first child , but I still consider myself lucky : I have medicine , water , electricity and a function hospital . the 180 woman give birth in Gaza do not have those thing . there be a report of a pregnant palestinian woman who have horrific injury from shell and who then have an emergency c - section perform without electricity . I know the Minister will think that that be unacceptable , but what be he actually do to ensure that hospital and pregnant woman be protect by international law ? we be speak out in every way we can to try to protect vulnerable citizen . I quote what President Joe Biden say yesterday in an Oval Office address . he say that Al - Shifa Hospital " must be protect " and that " it be my … expectation that there will be less intrusive action " . Israel have make it clear that it have clash with Hamas nearby , but have not fire on the hospital themselves . first , I thank the fcdo for help to rescue a group of Isle of Wight pilgrim who be catch in the Holy Land at the beginning of this dreadful conflict . secondly — it be a genuine question — both side have talk about the importance of protect hospital , but what can Israel do when those hospital be be use to store ammunition and hold hostage , when there be military hq and operational Hamas command underneath those hospital , and when Hamas be deliberately deny those hospital fuel , because they would rather broadcast picture of very tiny baby die than try to save they ? my hon . friend speak with great eloquence and passion on this point . I can do no well than to commend the eloquence of his argument . the short pause on their own be a first step , but they will not address the grave humanitarian crisis unfolding in Gaza . the damage to water pipeline , sewage pipe , hospital , school and other infrastructure require urgent rebuilding , and that will require a much long negotiate ceasefire from both side and the release of all hostage . do the Minister agree that the aid get into Gaza be woefully inadequate and that it be simply unacceptable for Israel not to lift its atrocious blockade and siege of Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman be right that get aid into Gaza be an absolute top priority . that be why we be focus on opening up not only Rafah , but Kerem Shalom , and try to make sure that we build up store so that , when we can get it in , we be able to bring support to desperate people . I very much welcome the statement by the Minister and the fact that the Government be look at and work with international partner on humanitarian pause and increase humanitarian aid . the Minister have say that the Government welcome any new initiative for a way forward . may I suggest two ? the United Kingdom host the friend of Syria international donor ' conference in London , with international partner . can the United Kingdom look at do that for Palestine and Gaza ? link to that , with regard to what happen in Gaza after Hamas be defeat , we have talk about the Palestinian Authority step up , but we have not talk about the other scenario . the United Kingdom chair the Trusteeship Council at the UN , along with France , which look at transitional arrangement . will the Government consider that as a way forward ? order . colleague have to understand that Mr Speaker have say very clearly that the statement will end at 2 o ' clock . it be up to colleague whether they choose to allow other colleague to get in . we must have short question , please . my hon . friend have make a further two thoughtful intervention . the Government will consider every possible way ahead as soon as the opportunity present itself . there be no point in brag about award £ 30 million of aid if it can not get in to help the civilian in Gaza . since 7 October , only 900 aid truck have be allow in . in normal circumstance , the number would be close to 20 , 000 . with fuel run out , be this not now collective punishment ? it be clear that , as the Minister say , a four - hour pause be not long enough . if he will not call for an immediate ceasefire , what length of pause in fighting do he think be require to get aid in to Gaza to help civilian ? it be not just a humanitarian pause that be the issue , but how to distribute vital humanitarian supply safely to people who may be be corral in small space . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that , as the opportunity present itself , we will do everything we can to drive forward those pause and to make they as effective as possible . UNRWA have announce that it will be unable to collect aid import from Egypt today because it do not have the fuel for truck . that also mean that water pumping , sewage treatment and other essential service will cease . have my right hon . friend have discussion with the Israelis about the plan to get the aid around Gaza and about their exit strategy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that fuel be the most important of many important issue today . we continue to lobby and argue with all relevant party for the importance of allow vital fuel for life - save purpose into Gaza . the Minister allude to the horrific scene at the weekend of baby die because they can not be in incubator . the IDF have offer incubator to the hospital , but it be not incubator that the hospital need . it have incubator ; it need fuel . the UN have offer to courier that fuel in for the incubator , but the israeli Government be not allow that . can I urge the Minister to do everything he can to change that ? the hon . Lady will know that Israel do offer fuel yesterday , but Hamas do not allow it to be accept . I congratulate Lord Cameron on his appointment as Foreign Secretary . I know that he will be well respect in foreign capital . however , as Mr Speaker say yesterday , there be a scrutiny problem for this House of Commons . many of my constituent care deeply about the Israel - Palestine situation and other issue , such as the ongoing negotiation on the future of the British Indian Ocean Territory . therefore , in order to enhance Commons scrutiny , will the Foreign Office commit to the Secretary of State ' s come before the Foreign Affairs Committee on the same regular cycle that the Foreign Secretary would have appear at the Dispatch Box for fcdo question ? my hon . friend make a very good point . we be committed to ensure that this House can fully scrutinise everything that the Foreign Office do , and his suggestion about a similar pattern of appearance for the Foreign Secretary before the Foreign Affairs Committee be a good one . the Minister will be aware that President Macron , the United Nations and all the adjoining arab country be call for a ceasefire . they be call for a ceasefire because short humanitarian pause will not end the slaughter . do he accept that what the british people and supporter of party on all side of the House want to see be policy that will end the killing , end the slaughter and move towards the negotiate settlement that we will have to move to in any case ? we all want to see the focus back on the political solution , which the right hon . Lady end her comment by extoll . I draw her attention to the tell argument that have be make — and not just by the Government but by those on her own Front Bench — about why the humanitarian pause , rather than a ceasefire , be the right approach . my right hon . friend will know that the House welcome the extra support that have go to Gazan civilian , but he will also have note today that there would be support for further aid to get there quickly . he will know that that aid can only get there , and we can only make sure it get to the people who need it rather than to Hamas , if those humanitarian pause be long than four hour . can he say what progress be be make ? I have listen carefully to what he say , but can he say when he expect success for long humanitarian pause ? I be afraid that I can not give my hon . friend a timescale of the sort that we would all like to see , but we be aware that to achieve a humanitarian pause be the start of progress , and nothing will deter we from advocate for that on all occasion . the Minister refer in his statement to the appalling loss of life among child , and I be pleased that my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) press he on that specifically because so many of my constituent be concerned about it . as thing stand , will that appalling loss of life not simply carry on ? what be the Government do to bring it to some kind of conclusion ? the right hon . Gentleman be right . in north Gaza , all hospital but one be out of service owe to a lack of power or damage . we be acutely aware of the strain and stress on life . that be why , as I set out in my statement and have argue in some of my response to question from across the House , we be do everything we can to advance respect for international humanitarian law and to bring this dreadful conflict to a close . I thank the Minister for his statement , his acknowledgment that there be a humanitarian crisis in Gaza , and all his effort to get aid into Gaza . a few moment ago , in answer to a previous question , he acknowledge that the US President say he hope to see " less intrusive action " at the Al - Shifa Hospital , as patient and staff remain trapped inside , and that hospital " must be protect " . for clarity , be that also the position of the UK Government ? yes . we be extremely concerned that everything should be do to protect life , in the way that the President of the United States set out . the Archbishop of Canterbury and the french President be the late leader to call for a ceasefire , join the head of several UN body , million of british people , 120 nation and many member of this House . More than 11 , 000 Palestinians in Gaza have be kill , of whom nearly half be child . that can not be just . I can not in all conscience call for anything less than an end to this suffering . will the Minister pluck up some courage and call for an immediate ceasefire in order to end the humanitarian disaster in Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman and I share the common aim of end the suffering — there be nothing between we on that . the argument be about how good to achieve it . that be why the Opposition Front Benchers and the Government have determine that try to promote humanitarian pause be the right way to proceed . although nobody want to see the conflict continue , do the Minister agree that those who call for an immediate ceasefire must initially acknowledge that Hamas be a terrorist organisation , that they start the conflict through their horrific attack on 7 October , and that terrorist organisation agree to ceasefire only when it suit their military aim , rather than for genuine humanitarian reason ? my hon . friend be wise in point out the reason why the combatant be not seek to achieve a ceasefire at this time . UNRWA have announce that it be no long able to collect aid because it no long have any fuel for its truck . we know that half of the hospital in Gaza be already close owe to a lack of fuel and security . that be why I and many other believe that a ceasefire be vital to ensure that humanitarian aid , include fuel , can get into Gaza . what discussion be the Minister have with the israeli authority to ensure that healthcare , aid and fuel can get into Gaza ? he talk about extended ; how long would an extended pause be ? in respect of the hon . Lady ' s final comment , that be what we be seek to negotiate . every sinew of the British Government be bent towards achieve the humanitarian aim that she set out . I can tell she that , as of the time I come to make this statement , the Al - Ahli Hospital remain the only function hospital in Gaza , but it do not have a blood bank or supply , so the situation be every bit as desperate as she and other on both side of the House have set out . in addition to the evidence that we have already hear of Hamas stockpile weapon and the apparatus of terror in hospital , include child ' s hospital , the israeli authority have also identify the misappropriation of aid , such as oxygen concentrator — mean to aerate the tunnel operate by Hamas — be hide in aid truck . be that not all evidence that no matter how much our human instinct want to see an end to bloodshed and the loss of life , a ceasefire would only embolden the terrorist , embolden Hamas , and the only way to get peace in the middle east be for the total destruction of Hamas ? my hon . friend be right : the military power of Hamas have to be destroy . that be what many people believe , and that be what the israeli Government be intent on do . I point out to he that the Israel Defence Forces use their power to defend their citizen ; Hamas use their citizen to defend Hamas . the Minister have rightly point out the intolerable human suffering of civilian in Gaza , but do he accept that it be a consequence of the blatant abuse of civilian by Hamas , who have bomb hospital and use they as basis , deny vital aid , and locate arm factory in flat where people be live ? as the terrorist be clearly under pressure — they be lose commander , basis and control — do he agree that now be the wrong time to call for a ceasefire , which would only allow the terrorist to regroup , re - arm and prolong the conflict ? the right hon . Gentleman speak with authority and understanding of these situation . he eloquently explain why a ceasefire be not a practical opportunity . the Minister rightly say in his statement : " hospital should be place of safety , able to treat patient with compassion . it be distress to see they unable to do so . " M é decin Sans Fronti è re have demand , as a bare minimum , a medical evacuation of patient . what more can the british Government do to make that happen ? as I have set out throughout my response and in my statement , the british Government be do everything we possibly can to advance that humanitarian endeavour . clearly , the atrocity of Hamas will in time be consider a war crime , but what we be see from the IDF at the moment be so far removed from what can be describe as " self - defence " . israeli Government official have call Gazans " human animal " and reference the use of nuclear weapon on Gaza . Netanyahu himself have cite Amalek in the Book of Samuel , which mention kill and slaughter every child , animal and person . on top of that , israeli Ministers have hand out machine gun to people in the west bank . I have not hear a moral case — let alone a logical case — from anybody in this House for not join all the arab world , the UN , the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Pope in call for an immediate ceasefire in order to get hostage out and humanitarian aid in . the hon . Gentleman will have hear the argument for and against a ceasefire , and he will have hear what the Government and his own Front Benchers have say . that be where the argument rest . at the last fcdo question , I ask the Minister twice about get fuel through to hospital , and highlight in particular the plight of woman due to give birth in appalling circumstance . their baby be now die . I appreciate what he say about try to do everything we can to get fuel through to hospital , but at what point do we say , " enough be enough ; Israel will not allow that to happen " , and what can we do to ensure that those baby ' life be save ? it be important not to give up hope . it be important to drive forward in every possible way we can the objective that the hon . Lady and I share , and we will continue to do that . as the Minister acknowledge , we be all shock by the image of baby be huddle together in the hope of keep they warm enough to stay alive . what more will the Government do to overcome the problem that the Minister refer to in response to my hon . friend the Members for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) and for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , to ensure that we facilitate the safe delivery of fuel for humanitarian purpose such as keep life - save equipment work for people in hospital in Gaza ? the central way to address that point be to try to get fuel through , and that be what we be do . many of my constituent want to see hon . member in this place , include those on the Labour and Tory Benches , call for a ceasefire in Gaza . with one in 200 local Gazan people kill by the israeli war machine , how much bad do it have to get before this place prioritise life over death and peace over war ? the Minister say that Hamas may not want a ceasefire , so why do what Hamas wish ? the Government must not wait for more people to die before eventually listen to the public , my constituent and President Macron and make that ceasefire happen . the hon . Member will have hear heavily rehearse during this statement the argument for and against a ceasefire , and I fear I can not add anything to what I have already say on that point . the Minister ' s call for Israel to follow international law in Gaza ring utterly hollow when we know that that be not happen . the United Nations Secretary - General , Amnesty International , Human Rights Watch and other have be clear that Israel be clearly and grossly violate international humanitarian law . since 2015 , this Government have license more than £ 472 million of arm export to Israel , include part of F - 35 stealth aircraft , which be currently rain down bomb on Gaza . do the Minister know whether british weapon have be use in violation of international law in Gaza , and do he agree that we should not sell weapon for commit war crime ? the hon . Member will know that the President of Israel , President Herzog , have make it clear that his country will abide by international humanitarian law . [ interruption . ] she will also know that , in respect of arm export in this country , we have the tough arm regulation anywhere in the world . what assessment have the Minister make of the number of palestinian civilian death that there will be , include baby and child , without a humanitarian ceasefire in the next month ? I would not necessarily trust the figure that be produce by Hamas , but we do know that an extraordinary number of people have lose their life , and we be all try to do everything we can to make sure that we bring this situation to a conclusion as rapidly as possible . before we talk about humanitarian pause , should we not agree first what we want to achieve by they ? would they not need to be for day or week , not just for four hour ? we need to repair infrastructure and get aid in on a scale that be just not possible while hostility continue . do the Government not need to call for an immediate cessation of hostility — a ceasefire — during the period that be agree , to get humanitarian aid in at the volume that be require ? it be not just a question of use the pause to try to advance humanitarian good ; it be also about try to use the humanitarian pause to achieve some of the thing the hon . Member say . as I say early , we have to be incredibly careful that we do not end up create a false sense of security , as the House will remember happen in Srebrenica , northern Iraq and Rwanda . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and all he be do to alleviate suffer in the region . the human cost in Israel and Gaza be truly immense and heartbreaking . will he join I in commend the extraordinary bravery of the aid worker on the ground in Gaza , some of whom have tragically lose their life , include over 100 UN worker ? my hon . friend be entirely right . I hope a particularly hot place in hell be reserve for those who murder humanitarian worker who have put themselves in harm ' s way unarmed purely to protect the life and interest of their fellow humanity . we have hear this afternoon that , frankly , this short pause be not work — four hour will not achieve anything . the fact that we be see Palestinians be force to leave their home en masse be quite worrying . will the Minister condemn the act of violence and extremism by israeli settler in the west bank , call on israeli authority to prevent that settler violence , ensure that there be clear accountability for the perpetrator and condemn this extremist rhetoric ? the hon . Member will have hear what the Prime Minister and other member of the Government have say in condemn settler violence . we will continue to stand up for the rule of law and international humanitarian law on every occasion we be able to do so . Gregory Campbell . [ interruption . ] I be not Gregory Campbell , but I be happy to ask a question . I think he be behind you . all right ; I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank the Minister for his reply , which be positive , and I know he mean well . can he provide an update on what progress have be make on discussion with Jordan , Egypt and surround nation to secure the free passage of medical aid ? will that be consider as a priority ? I thank the hon . member for his comment . discussion be go on with Jordan and Egypt on that very point , and I will go tonight to Egypt to try to further those discussion . in set out what a humanitarian pause would involve , the Secretary of State be set out the challenge at the heart of this . those of we who believe that we should be work alongside our international colleague for an urgent ceasefire as the good way to end the palestinian bloodshed and the horror we be see in Gaza know that any ceasefire that do not involve the immediate return of hostage and the dismantling of Hamas be unlikely to be sustainable . the Minister talk about the conversation the new Foreign Secretary have have with the Secretary of State in America . the Foreign Secretary can not be in front of we so that I can ask he this myself , so will the Minister urgently arrange a meeting with the Foreign Secretary for my constituent whose father be be hold by Hamas , so that she may understand what this Government be do for UK citizen who have hostage family ? I assume that the hon . Member have speak to the crisis centre about that particular example . if she have not , I hope she will , and of course , we will afford all support we can to her constituent . the news of the burial in a mass grave of baby , child and other patient at Al - Shifa Hospital be heartbreaking , as be the news of the murder , mutilation and capture of baby , child and other innocent civilian in Israel on 7 October . I agree with the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , that the Government must now urge concrete step to protect civilian life . do the Minister agree that we need humanitarian pause long enough to ensure that lifesave aid reach hospital , as well as the release of hostage and the safe movement of innocent civilian ? we will undoubtedly continue to do everything we can to support humanitarian supply get in and to develop the concept of the pause to maximum effect . it be the role of the Government , through their very strong diplomatic connection with all part of the region , to do everything they can to drive forward those humanitarian aim . I apologise — I be new here and do not yet know everybody . [ laughter . ] I call Kenny MacAskill . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . Hamas today conjure up memory of Christmas truce before the horror recommence , but this be not soldier in the trench ; it be 2 . 2 million people trap in a tight urban environment , include woman and child . be that not the reason that a humanitarian pause be insufficient and there must be an immediate ceasefire ? the circumstance that the hon . member describe be precisely the reason why the british Government put such a high priority on try to advance those humanitarian aim , some of which , at least , can be advance through the humanitarian pause we be so trenchantly seek . on 24 October , I ask the Minister in this House about care for pregnant woman and new - bear baby in Gaza . since I ask that question three week ago , approximately 3 , 400 child have be bear amidst devastation and destruction . give that it be quite clear that four - hour pause be totally inadequate , can the Minister tell I what specific step his Department will take to protect hospital , deliver humanitarian aid to pregnant woman and child and stop premature death ? the hon . Member make her point with great eloquence , and it underline the effort and importance that the Government attach to try to drive humanitarian support through these pause to those who desperately need it . the Government have be call for a humanitarian pause for some time , but the death toll have rise , and the humanitarian crisis deepen by the hour . as a result , we clearly need a ceasefire , to move to a political process and a political solution . can the Minister say what step he be take to formulate that political solution ? it be not just our Government who be argue for this ; it be government around the world . everyone be focus on try to bring this dreadful situation to a conclusion and drive towards a political process . that be what we need . the hon . Member ask what I be do . I will go tonight to Egypt to further these discussion . the situation in Gaza can not continue as it be , and everything need to be do to bring this humanitarian devastation to an end . follow on from the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , will the Minister condemn act of violence and extremism by israeli settler in the west bank ? as the hon . Lady will know , I hope , the Prime Minister and the Government have condemn settler violence and urge the israeli Government to crack down on it . it be difficult to get aid and medicine into Gaza , but there be no shortage of arm in the region . I have be contact by many constituent concern about Britain ' s role in supply British - make weapon to Israel . in the absence of the Committees on Arms Export Controls meeting at all this year , what assurance can the Minister give that the weapon we be supply be not be use in act of collective punishment ? I refer the hon . Lady to my response a few moment ago , in which I make clear that Britain have the most rigorous arm sale regime anywhere in the world — it be extremely important that we have that . I will look carefully to see whether there be any aspect of the hon . Lady ' s question that suggest we should do more . on Friday , the Palestine Red Crescent Society say that israeli force open fire on the intensive care unit at Al - Quds Hospital , and M é decin Sans Fronti è re report a doctor in Al - Shifa Hospital say that a sniper attack four patient inside that hospital . we be see baby die — what be happen be a stain on our collective humanity . I implore the Government please to join the overwhelming majority of the british public , humanitarian organisation and other nation in call for an immediate ceasefire , to prevent the further death of innocent civilian and resolve what be a humanitarian catastrophe . I think the hon . Lady should put some great hope in the achievement of humanitarian pause , and then the development of those pause . in the meantime , as she will be aware , it be the policy of both the Government and the opposition that we should promote pause , not a ceasefire . will the Minister confirm that it be the Government ' s position that there should be no compulsion for people to leave their home in Gaza , and that when people be displace by fight , they must be allow to return home as soon as possible ? the Government be acutely aware of the extraordinarily difficult situation in Gaza , and it be not for I to give advice from the Dispatch Box to people on the ground there who need to assess their situation for themselves within their community . the UN say that telecommunication will begin to fail from Thursday as fuel run out for the provide company . some life have be save when people have be telephone to inform they that their home be about to be bomb . can any step be take to deliver fuel specifically to telecommunication company ? I have also see those report — they be extremely worrying , and they intensify the requirement to get fuel into Gaza as quickly as possible . among so many horror that we have see since the horrific and illegal attack by Hamas on 7 October , the image of tiny baby in Al - Shifa Hospital in Gaza be keep warm with improvise incubation be unbearable . that be not for the want of incubator ; it be for the want of fuel . the Minister speak from the Dispatch Box a few moment ago about the offer of fuel make by the israeli Government yesterday , but the head of one of the aid agency on the ground in Gaza have explain what that offer be : a few jerry can leave outside the hospital , amount to half an hour of generation time . half an hour of fuel for generator be not what be need , and it be not what international law require , so can I press the Minister on what action he be take to hold the israeli Government to account for the unacceptable stoppage of aid into Gaza , include fuel , and for their maintenance of international law ? it be true , I think , that 300 litre of fuel be offer yesterday and it be reject by Hamas — that be the key point . some fuel be offer . obviously , we hope that more fuel can get through , but if Hamas refuse to allow it to be use for the extremely important purpose that the hon . Lady have set out , the position will not improve . the new Foreign Secretary call Gaza an open - air prison in peacetime . while we all stand with Israel on 7 October , what be the limit of self - defence — a population forcibly displace by donkey because there be no fuel , or communication blackout ? when will the UK join France , Spain , the UN and all the aid agency in advocate a cessation of hostility ? we can not go on like this 20 hour a day . the hon . Lady make an eloquent plea for we to advance on all the thing that the Government , along with other , be do everything they can to progress . while the whole House should condemn unreservedly the atrocity commit against israeli civilian on 7 October by the terror organisation Hamas , do his Majesty ' s Government believe that the ongoing response of the Israel Defence Forces remain proportionate , and will they keep the matter under review ? I draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention to what I say early about the work of the Israel Defence Forces , and indeed the training they undergo , which respect international humanitarian law and understand the obligation a military force owe to civilian . I have constituent who be heartbroken and devastate about the continue conflict between Israel and Palestine . hospital and patient , particularly baby , must be protect and can not become target . do the Minister agree that the aid that be get into Gaza be still completely insufficient , and that it be unacceptable that siege condition have not be lift ? as the hon . Lady suggest , it be completely insufficient . that be why we be argue so trenchantly for the opening of not just Rafah , but Kerem Shalom , so that more aid can be get in for those who desperately need it . after the terrorist atrocity of 7 October and with an estimate 11 , 000 Palestinians dead , there be a new fear : that of forced and permanent displacement of the palestinian people . accompany by a drumbeat of senior voice , there be pressure on third country to take the Gazan population as refugee . can the Minister take this opportunity to say that neither this Government nor the international community regard that as acceptable in any way ? the hon . Lady once again demonstrate the dreadful position that the appalling act perpetrate by Hamas terrorist on 7 October have land people in . I think I hear the Minister correctly just now when he confirm report in the Financial Times that all but one of the hospital in the north of Gaza have stop function . that news be catastrophic , and my constituent just want to know — as all of we do — that there be some hope that this hell be come to an end . as such , far to the response he give to the hon . member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) and my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , can I ask the Minister to describe the UK Government ' s diplomatic strategy ? he have mention that he will be travel this evening : which of our partner will he be engage to bring this war to an end ? I will be travel to Egypt tonight , but the discussion that be go on be about the hostage and the humanitarian situation , which I have explain extensively today . there be also discussion about the politic and how we move on . those discussion be go on not just within the British Government , but with our partner , ally and like - minded party overseas — in particular , through the extraordinary diplomatic reach of the British Foreign Office with all the country in the region , which of course care as much as we do about the appalling loss of life . in 2010 , the then UK Prime Minister , now the Foreign Secretary , condemn the blockade of Gaza as a " prison camp " . the siege condition have remain , and that be the context in which this war have claim the life of 11 , 000 civilian in Gaza , follow the horrific Hamas attack that have cost the life of 1 , 400 innocent civilian and lead to the hostage taking of over 200 people . the reality be that the long the Gaza war continue , the more palpable be the danger of further contagion not only in the west bank and Jerusalem , but across the region . we could be on the precipice of a regional war , and of tension endure beyond Gaza and Israel and cause full - scale conflict between Israel and Hezbollah . that be why it be imperative for our Government to work with international partner to seek the cessation of hostility and to work for an endure humanitarian ceasefire . so much be at stake here , and it be for our Government to take that leadership role . I call on the Minister to do so . the hon . Member have set out with great eloquence the issue before we , and it underline the absolute necessity to get back on to a political track as swiftly as we can . the Minister continue to say that he want the Government of Israel to respect international human right law , but last week he say that the Government could not make a determination whether that be happen . he say it would be for court and lawyer to determine , so which court and which lawyer , and how and when should a determination be make about whether Israel be comply with international humanitarian law ? the point I make last week be that it be not for Ministers to assert what be in effect a legal judgment and that it should be leave to the court . I think that be a sensible measure for we to accept . the hon . member will be aware that there be many different people — I quote , for example , the guardian of the Geneva convention and international humanitarian law — and I do not think there will be any difficulty in hear from the judicial authority on that matter . the call for a ceasefire be back by multiple United Nations agency , 700 NGOs , Pope Francis , more than 250 british lawyer , the 120 country that vote in favour of a UN General Assembly motion and 76 % of the public , and yesterday the Archbishop of Canterbury say that " the call for a ceasefire be a moral cry " . what will it take for the newly instal Secretary of State to heed these international call and to support an immediate ceasefire ? I yield to no one in my profound respect for the Archbishop of Canterbury , but I think the reason set out by both Government and Opposition Front Benchers about why that be not a practical approach should be listen to with care . meanwhile , we will do everything we can to address the humanitarian situation , which have be so eloquently set out across the House . give the grave seriousness and scale of the humanitarian disaster unfold in Gaza , it be vital that the length of humanitarian pause be sufficient to allow aid and supply to reach safely those who need they . in the statement , the Minister acknowledge that four hour be not enough , so the first question be : by the Government ' s own assessment , how long be need ? secondly , will the Government finally meet the shadow Foreign Secretary ' s request for an international aid co - ordinator to be appoint to make sure that aid really reach where it be need ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point about the co - ordination of aid , but principally we need to get it into the country . I have set out that this be about not just the length of the pause , but the nature of how the aid be then distribute . the british Government be work with our partner to progress all those thing . I give thank to Islamic Relief for the heroic work it be do in get aid to people in need in Gaza . however , this be not a natural disaster , and aid and supply can be switch back on . do the Minister agree that it be unacceptable for Israel not to lift its siege condition ? I pay tribute , as the hon . Member do , to Islamic Relief , which I visit in Birmingham on Sunday with Andy Street , the West Midlands Mayor . Islamic Relief be do extraordinary work still . it have access to fuel , and it have access to way of make sure that water purification can continue to take place . we work closely with it , as we work with so many other , to try to bring an end to this dreadful situation . Avi Shlaim be an Arab Jew , who be bear in Baghdad , serve in the Israel Defence Forces and be a retire professor of international affair at the University of Oxford . he probably know more about the israeli - palestinian conflict than most of we , and he say : " revenge be not a policy . " do the british Government reject the position of the israeli Government that they should have overall security control of Gaza after current military operation ? I think we can all agree that revenge be not a policy , but give the appalling event of 7 October , I want to emphasise that the israeli Government have an absolute right to self - defence . the Minister say that the argument for and against a ceasefire have be fully rehearse , but the situation in the hospital and the ongoing slaughter of innocent civilian flee the hostility illustrate that these humanitarian pause be not work . the difficulty be that our constituent can see this terrible situation unfold on the television every evening , and that be why they be write to we in their thousand about it . what they want to know and what I want to know be this : how many more innocent people have to die before the UK Government will support a call for a ceasefire from both side ? the Government and , indeed , Labour Front Benchers have explain why call for a ceasefire do not work at the moment . we have explain the israeli Government ' s right to self - defence , but also that Hamas have make it clear that not only do they not want a ceasefire , but they want to repeat what happen on 7 October . the position in those circumstance be that , to alleviate human suffering and to progress humanitarian effort to get supply in , we should try to develop the humanitarian pause , and that be what we will continue to do . the suffering of innocent civilian in Gaza be intolerable . the siege must end , the bombing must end and we need an end to hostility . do the Minister share my worry that the way the war on Hamas be be prosecute — the constant bombing , the scale of the loss of life and suffering — run the risk of radicalise people and drive they into the arm of Hamas and other terrorist extremist ? would he comment on that , and on whether that view be be express to the israeli Government ? the british Government have many friend and a brilliant diplomatic network in the region , and we express ourselves without fear or favour to give the good advice that the British Government have . the Minister say that it be not for Ministers to confirm or ascertain what be and be not a war crime , but I remind he that Government Ministers rightly condemn Vladimir Putin for his war crime in Ukraine very quickly after the invasion . the Minister mention the sanctity of hospital , which be place protect under the Geneva convention , yet when I mention this exact issue last week , he do not accept my analysis of the Geneva convention . with report of hospital be bomb , IDF sniper fire into Al - Shifa and civilian , include child , be fire on while try to evacuate under white flag , I repeat : what will it take for the Government and Opposition Front Benchers to call act such as this what they be — war crime ? I have set out very clearly during this statement and in response to member across the House the absolutely essential nature of the progress we seek to make . I hope that the hon . Member will accept that my answer this week will be no different from the answer I give he on Wednesday last week . I thank the House for its patience . we have come in just inside the Speaker ' s time limit . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . not to detract in any way from the integrity of the Minister , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , but many have speak about the absurd scrutiny situation of the new Foreign Secretary be a Member of the House of Lords and unable to answer question in this Chamber . give the gravity of the situation we be deal with , be it not right that we change the Standing Orders to enable we to call Lords to appear in this place to answer question on this matter from the Dispatch Box ? the hon . Gentleman be well aware that the Speaker have make a statement on this . the matter be under consideration , and it be not my place to seek to second - guess the advice that the Speaker be give . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I wish he a safe and productive journey . bill present Criminal Justice Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary James Cleverly , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Alex Chalk , Secretary Michael Gove , the Attorney General , Chris Philp and Edward Argar , present a Bill to amend the criminal law ; to make provision about criminal justice ( include the power and duty of the police ) and about deal with offender ; to make provision about confiscation and the use of monie in suspend account ; to make other provision about the prevention and detection of crime and disorder ; to make provision about beg , rough sleeping and anti - social behaviour ; to make provision about the police ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill10 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 10 - en ) . sentencing Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Alex Chalk , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Grant Shapps , Secretary Michelle Donelan , Secretary Steve Barclay , Secretary Mel Stride , Secretary Lucy Frazer and the Attorney General , present a Bill to make provision about the sentencing of offender convict of murder or sexual offence ; to make provision about the suspension of custodial sentence ; to make provision about the release of offender , include provision about release on licence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 11 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 11 - en ) . debate on the Address 5th Day Debate resume ( Order , 13 November ) . question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . economic Growth I inform the House that Mr Speaker have select amendment ( m ) in the name of the Leader of the Opposition . I call Rachel Reeves . I beg to move an amendment , at the end of the question to add : " but respectfully regret that the Gracious Speech fail to include legislative proposal to prevent a repeat of the economic fallout from the September 2022 Growth Plan , by amend the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 to give the Office for Budget Responsibility the power to produce and publish forecast for any Government fiscal event which include tax and spending decision with long - term effect over a threshold to be specify in a new Charter for Budget Responsibility . " it be fair to say that the UK be not exactly grip with excitement at the content of the Conservative Government ' s King ' s Speech . it be as if minister have rummage down the back of the sofa and find legislative loose change , a broken biro , some old Bills cover in fluff and even an old Prime Minister . in this current Tory era of three - word slogan , the country be think not , " five more year ! " but , " be that it ? " it be clear what the Government ' s approach be in the run - up to that election . they have give up on try to improve the country , so all they can now do be attempt to divide it . but they will fail because the Conservatives simply do not understand the priority , hope and value of the people of Britain today . after five Prime Ministers — one of they recycle — and seven chancellor since 2010 , the Conservatives find change personnel rather easy than change our country for the well . I be listen to the right hon . Lady ' s speech about value . the value of my constituent be such that they be call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . do she support those value ? we have just have an hour and a half ' s worth of question on that issue . I be go to focus on how to grow the economy and tackle the cost of living crisis . I wish that today we be debate the Government ' s significant economic reform and new measure to get our economy back on track after 13 year of tory economic failure — but there weren ' t any . their big tax reform be to consult on bring in a new duty on vape . their big energy Bill do not even low people ' s energy bill . in fact , a third of the Bills in the King ' s Speech be reheat from the previous Session . how out of touch must the Prime Minister be to peer down from 10 , 000 foot up in his helicopter and conclude that everything be go so well that there be no need for legislation and Government action to help unlock growth ? this be the final King ' s Speech before the general election , and yet this set of proposal will not quicken the pulse , get the economy roar or lift people ' s living standard . where be the ambition ? where be the plan ? as the British Chambers of Commerce have point out : " the King ' s Speech open with an aspiration to increase economic growth — but it fail to outline how that will happen . " do my right hon . friend share the concern of many that rather than improve , economic growth be forecast to go into reverse next year under the Tories ? do she agree that this new tory economic failure do not bode well for people ' s living standard next year ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . she will have see that the forecast publish by the Bank of England just over a week ago show that the economy be expect to flatline not just throughout the rest of this year but all through next year as well . there be something quite apt , even reveal , about the Conservatives want to use this King ' s Speech to protect the user of driverless car from the damage they might inflict on other . the Conservative Government have be drive quite dangerously for 13 year . the current name driver of the vehicle — the third in four year — be nowhere to be see , but there will be no protection for the Prime Minister or his party from voter ’ verdict at the general election , whenever that come . the Government ' s King ' s Speech be a lost opportunity for our country . there be no legislation to reform the antiquated planning process and accelerate decision around our critical national infrastructure . instead , planning process continue to hold back the success of our offshore wind sector , life science and 5 g . there be no pension reform to encourage grow british company to stay here instead of be force abroad for funding , which contribute to the UK ' s stagnate growth . there be no serious plan to help get energy bill down . the energy price cap have increase by half in this Parliament , yet the Energy Secretary have admit that the Government ' s energy Bill " wouldn ' t necessarily bring energy bill down " , whereas Labour have plan for clean power by 2030 , a national wealth fund , insulate home to low bill , and the creation of GB Energy . there be no focus from the Government on industrial strategy or on put an industrial strategy council on a statutory footing to help drive the growth and investment that we need . instead , the Government reach for stick plaster when important sector hit crisis . we need positive , long - term plan to make the most of our asset and create good - quality job here in Britain . I commend the right hon . Lady for her strong and wise word . like I and other in the House , she believe that the life science sector can grow and do much more . in 2019 , the pharmaceutical sector alone provide 18 % of research and development spending . there be almost 600 , 000 job in the industry and it contribute £ 36 . 9 billion in gross value add to GDP . do the right hon . Lady agree that if we be to ensure that everyone can gain from life science , there must be well distribution across all of this great United Kingdom of GB and NI , and that NI must be a part of that ? I could not agree more with the hon . Gentleman . our life science sector be key for Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and yet too many business be look to relocate , include to the Republic of Ireland , but we want those job and those investment here in Britain . there be no legislation in this King ' s Speech for fairer tax measure . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have be so quick to raise taxis — they have do so 25 time between they — that we now have the high tax burden in 70 year . it be the big tax hike ever in a single Parliament , with work people and business hit hard , yet the Government allow unjustifiable tax loophole to remain . I believe that if people make Britain their home , they should pay their taxis here , too . that be why we will abolish the non - dom tax status and introduce a modern scheme for people who be genuinely live in the UK for short period . why be it so hard for this Prime Minister to say the same ? there be no legislation in this King ' s Speech to increase security at work or to update employment right . have confidence to plan a family ' s future should be not a luxury but something that work people deserve , and we need to grow our economy from the bottom up and the middle out . if an economy be not work for work people , it be not work at all . this King ' s Speech have no serious plan for tackle the cost of live crisis or for grow the UK economy . the conservative economic failure be pile up high : a failure on growth ; a failure on infrastructure investment ; a failure on the cost of living ; a failure on public service ; and a failure on tax . the responsibility for such disappointment and damage have be a conservative team effort these past 13 year . the Government can not get our economy back on track or make our country well off . the Conservatives can not and have not tackle the cost of live crisis because they be the cost of living crisis . do my right hon . friend agree that we be still pay the price of the fail Tory policy since 2010 that have weaken our NHS , strip funding from our local council service and stop labour ' s school repair programme ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . the truth be that the combination of austerity , which be five Prime Ministers ago , Brexit without a plan — which relate to most of they — and the kamikaze Budget have contribute to the parlous state of our economy and the cost of living crisis that we be endure today . this be a party lead — and I say " lead " in the loose sense of the word — by a Prime Minister with no mandate whatsoever and with no authority or vision for the future . this Prime Minister appear to be spend more time polish his cv in conversation with Elon Musk than fight for the livelihood of manufacture worker in Scunthorpe , Port Talbot and Derby . and it be the previous Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , who still set the tune for so many in the conservative party . she want to scrap the banker ’ bonus cap in the kamikaze Budget last year , and that have now be dutifully deliver by this Prime Minister and this Chancellor . when the previous Prime Minister call this year for delay the timetable for new electric car by five year , undermine both the net zero consensus and the british automotive industry , this Prime Minister and this Chancellor deliver . today , the former Prime Minister ' s so - call growth commission be set out its demand for next week ' s autumn statement , oblivious to the damage already do . will the Chancellor tell the House whether he agree with the person who appoint he to do the job he be now do and her proposal to slash corporation tax , abolish inheritance tax , abolish stamp duty and other unfunded commitment that make last year ' s mini - Budget look like small fry , with tax cut announce totalling £ 80 billion ? labour will never gamble with the livelihood of work people , as the Conservatives have . labour ' s economic approach be build on a rock of fiscal responsibility , with respect for taxpayer ' money . we will work in partnership with industry to bring about the change that our country so desperately need . we know what the Tories do last autumn . they blow up our economy with their reckless , unfunded promise and a trashing of our economic institution . it be a collective failure from the Tories . it be not just one bad apple , but a whole orchard of irresponsibility . the conservative leadership contest of summer 2022 produce a sum total of £ 200 billion of unfunded promise . the Chancellor do not want to be leave out . his leadership candidacy might not have be as successful or last as long as he may have wish , but there be still time for he to make almost £ 80 billion of unfunded commitment himself on corporation tax , business rate and defence , with no idea how those commitment would be fund . follow the leadership election last year , Conservative Cabinet Ministers try to blindfold the nation and global financial market by prevent the Office for Budget Responsibility from publish its assessment . the Conservatives know that the truth would hurt , but they continue to gamble with the livelihood of our country . the pound crash , pension be put in peril and interest rate soar . work people be make to pay the price for the Conservatives ' kamikaze Budget and reckless eagerness to cut the taxis of the wealthy few . it be reckless , it be irresponsible , and with Labour it will never happen . the result be an average conservative mortgage penalty of £ 220 each and every month for hard - work homeowner . this out - of - touch Government do not have a clue about what that really mean for people . that be a lot of money to try to find from nowhere each and every month . it mean holiday cancel , spend cut back and life make hard . some family be have to downsize , and other who have be try to get on the housing ladder for year have have their dream snuff out . meanwhile , rent rise as landlord see their mortgage go up and want to pass the cost on . my right hon . friend be make a good point about housing cost and the shortage of housing in this country . be it not therefore astounding that , give the climate we be in , there be not one single word about housing in the whole king ' s Speech ? there be not a single word about the shortage of housing or the rise cost of housing , no long - term proposal to build on this vague commitment of 300 , 000 home , and no idea how to build they . my hon . friend speak powerfully on what he know well . on top of the big challenge with house building and the Government get rid of their housing target , the number of homeowner in arrear on their mortgage be also up a staggering 18 % compare with a year ago . the Conservatives be no long the party of home ownership . high housing cost be the last thing people need in a painful cost of living crisis . it should never have happen in the first place , and it must never happen again . will the right hon . Lady enlighten we on the Labour party ' s view on our precious green belt , because my constituent be terrified that a Labour Government will build house all over it ? labour ' s approach be brownfield - first . we also know that there be land designate as green belt that be no such thing . for example , there be a petrol station in Tottenham that people can not get planning permission for , because it be classify as green belt . People want that land build on , and I think we can all agree across the House that we need reform to allow that to happen , but this Government scrap the house building target . home ownership be fall under the Conservatives . the Conservatives be once the party of home ownership ; they can no long claim that mantle . it be Labour today that be the party of home ownership and of aspiration for working family . today the Conservatives can show that they have learn a lesson from last year . they can back Labour ' s commitment to strengthen the Office for Budget Responsibility in our amendment . we believe that where a fiscal event be make significant and permanent tax and spending change , the OBR should be able to freely and independently publish a forecast of the impact of those change . no Government of the day should be able to stop it from do so . in the event of an emergency , where change must be introduce at speed and a forecast can not be produce in time , the OBR would be allow to set a date for when it can publish a forecast . the public should be able to read an independent assessment on the health of our economy , to understand the consequence of proposal and to see the price on the menu . the amendment should not be remotely controversial , and I look forward to see conservative mp and Ministers join we in support this sensible measure today . if they do not , it will show that they have not learn a thing , and that the Conservatives continue to present a real and present danger to our economy . what will be the legacy of 13 year of this Conservative Government ? they have damage our economy , trash our public service , fail to invest in the industry of the future , squeeze people ' s living standard and cause a calamitous cost of living crisis . a Labour Government will clean up that mess . we will clamp down on waste and fraud from the pandemic , because the country be sick of be rip off and we want our money back . we will tax fairly , spend wisely and grow the economy . we will get the NHS back on its foot . the Conservatives have break our public service before , but Labour government have fix they in the past , and we will do so again . as bad as the public finance be under the Conservatives , there will always be choice , so we will abolish the non - dom tax status and use that money to help our NHS tackle record waiting time and introduce free breakfast club for all primary school - age child . we will close the tax loophole that give private equity manager a huge tax break . we will close the tax loophole benefit private school , which gain from not have to pay vat and business rate , and use that money to support the 93 % of child attend our state school . if the Conservatives want to have a fight over who be most aspirational for our young people when the ceiling be crumble in our school , I say bring it on . after 13 year of Conservative Government , the question that people will be ask at the next election be simple : " do my family and I feel well off after 13 year of conservative government ? do our school , our hospital and our transport infrastructure work well than when the Conservatives come to office 13 year ago ? in fact , do anything in Britain work well today than when the Conservatives come to office ? " the answer be a resound no . this King ' s Speech be not remotely up to the task of change our country for the well and meet the challenge head on . real change can not come from five more painful year under the Conservatives , but only from a fresh start with Labour . the Labour party be the only party of economic responsibility and with the ability to provide the change of direction and confidence that our country need . as this King ' s Speech show , this desperate , decay Government be out of idea , out of excuse and increasingly out of time . if the Prime Minister and Chancellor be so confident about the Conservatives ' record , let we take it to the ballot box and let the british people decide . it be an honour to speak in the first king ' s Speech debate for more than 70 year . her late Majesty be a figure of grace and continuity , and we now look forward to his Majesty the King lead we , as she do , through troubled time . it be always a pleasure to debate with the shadow Chancellor , although in a whole year of my be Chancellor , this be the first time we have have an economy debate , and now we know why : she have be busy write a book , or , rather , Wikipedia have be busy write her book . today , I see she have be busy copy and paste conservative language about tax . may I tell she gently that that will take she only so far ? conservative Members will never forget what happen under Gordon Brown , who she campaign for : income tax up , national insurance up , stamp duty up , fuel duty up , pension up and multiple other taxis up . let we turn to some of the shadow Chancellor ' s assertion . she say that the economy be flatline . what she do not tell the House be that since Labour leave the economy in the deep recession since the second world war , we in this country have grow fast than Spain , Portugal , Italy , France , the Netherlands , Austria , Germany or Japan . she do not mention that after a global pandemic and energy shock , our economy be nearly 2 % big than it be pre - pandemic . that be high , for example , than country such as Germany , whose economy be only 0 . 3 % large , not least thank to the furlough scheme introduce by my right hon . friend the Prime Minister . the shadow Chancellor also do not mention that when it come to the fast - grow industry , we be do even well . in the last 13 year under conservative Governments , we have build Europe ' s large tech sector — double the size of Germany ' s and three time that of France ; it be the third - large in the world . we also have Europe ' s large life science sector , save more life than any other country globally with vaccine and treatment discover in Britain . we have more offshore wind than anywhere in Europe bar Germany and Norway — it be the third - large sector in the continent . we also have a world - lead creative industry sector , include Europe ' s large film and tv industry and a thriving publishing industry that have even produce a book write by the shadow Chancellor , which helpfully collate some fascinating information from the world wide web . the Chancellor talk about what he see as some success . why do he not address the problem of small modular reactor ? Sheffield Forgemasters in my constituency could be build smr , but it have be wait for month for the Government to make a decision on a go - ahead for the right technique . ITM Power , which be a leader in green hydrogen , be build plant in Germany , which be spend £ 7 billion on it in the next few year , while in this country we be spend £ 1 billion , so we be lose the international race on that . the first big infrastructure decision that I take be on nuclear , when I assign £ 700 million to Sizewell C . I completely agree with the hon . member about the potential of SMR . that be why we set up a competition , and with the previous Energy Secretary I stipulate that it should finish by the end of this calendar year so that we can proceed as quickly as possible on SMR , because it could be an important part of our net zero future . the shadow Chancellor ' s central argument be that we can get growth only by borrow £ 28 billion a year more . [ interruption . ] well , I be listen to her word . she may not have mention this in her speech , but on 9 October she say on the " Today " programme that she want to take borrow " up " — her word . we deliver all those achievement in technology , life science , creative industry and advanced manufacturing industry during a time when we be cut borrowing , which go down by 80 % between 2010 and the start of the pandemic . that be the difference . unlike Labour , the Conservatives know that we can not borrow our way to growth . we have to do the hard work to support entrepreneur and innovator , include by keep their taxis down , which Labour have never want to do . because we have do just that , the International Monetary Fund say that after inflation have be bring to target from the end of 2025 , this country will have fast growth than France , Germany or Italy . no shortcut ; just hard work to get one of the fast growth rate in Europe . on investment in renewable energy , EY have confirm today that the UK have slip far back on the attractiveness index , so it be now behind India , China and Australia . on offshore wind , the Chancellor know that allocation round 5 be a disaster . what will he do to rectify that ? on nuclear , he talk about smr be the future , but they be not . there be not a successful SMR anywhere in the world , and NuScale in the United States have just be abandon after rise to an estimate cost of $ 9 billion . I do not accept that we be not an extremely attractive place . we have third large renewable sector in Europe and be the large european provider of offshore wind . can we do more ? yes , we can , particularly by improve access to the grid . the House should expect to hear more from we on that . we have a lot of talk from the shadow Chancellor about the cost of living crisis , but she barely mention that the big pressure on the cost of living be cause by the rise in inflation — in fact , it do not get a mention at all in her conference speech . because we have take difficult decision , inflation have fall by 40 % since its peak . core inflation be now low than in nearly half the entire EU membership . I say gently to she that if she be to reflate the economy by ramp up borrowing by £ 28 billion a year , price would go up and family would end up pay more for their petrol , their food , their electricity and their mortgage . that be why that be the wrong approach . one issue on borrowing that have not be talk about be that it be now four year since this place agree that we should regulate the buy now , pay later lender . under this Government ' s watch , the number of people borrow from these company to make end meet during the cost of living crisis have double , and 40 % of those people be struggle and borrow from other lender to pay their debt , yet we have still see no regulation at all from the Government . if the Chancellor want to prove that he be actually on the side of the people and understand the bill that they have rack up pay for this Tory Government ' s failure , will he finally commit to regulate these loan shark ? as the hon . Member might have hear if she have be at oral question , we be act on this and have be consult on a solution since March this year — I start that at the spring Budget — but we want to get the answer right . we want to crack down on rogue lender but also ensure that the financing that appropriate people can offer responsibly be available . I want to talk about the pressure on ordinary family , because the shadow Chancellor also talk about income and the tax burden on work family . what have happen since 2010 to adult on the low legally payable wage ? when we take over from Labour , that wage be £ 5 . 93 an hour ; today , it be £ 10 . 42 an hour . after inflation , gross pay for those on the low legally payable wage have go up by 20 % . the number of people on low pay , define as less than two third of median hourly earning , have halve . at the same time , because conservative government want to make work pay , we increase the threshold before which people start to pay tax or national insurance from £ 5 , 700 to £ 12 , 570 . take - home pay after tax for people on the adult main minimum wage have therefore go up by more than 25 % after inflation . that be a big percentage increase than for people on much high income . Notwith - stand what the Chancellor have say , my constituent in Edinburgh West , like those in much of the rest of the country , be listen intently to the King ' s Speech for a Bill or anything that might help they with the cost of food and specifically energy this come winter , but there be nothing , and it have be admit that the petroleum Bill will not do anything to help household in this country . do he appreciate why ordinary working family think that the Government be simply out of touch ? with respect , I think the hon . member need to look at the fact . we have give an average of £ 3 , 300 in cost of live support to family across the country this year and last . in Scotland , 700 , 000 household have benefit from our cost of living payment , which have reach more than 1 million pensioner . I want to return to my main point about the impact of make work pay . as a result of that change , not only have a lot of people be lift out of poverty , but unemployment have go down by a million , after go up by nearly half a million under Labour , and the unemployment rate have halve . that be the difference : if we make work pay , as the Conservatives do , we lift people out of poverty and put people into work . what would the minimum wage be worth now if the right hon . member ' s party have succeed in its attempt to wreck the legislation when it be introduce by the last Labour Government ? I simply say that we do not just build on that reform but improve it massively more than Labour propose , because we turn it into the national living wage , which be far more generous than the original minimum wage . accord to the House of Commons Library , in 2022 the tax burden on the low income decile be 25 . 5 % . on the top income decile , it be 12 . 5 % . be that fair ? because we believe in a progressive tax system , we introduce the change that I just outline , which mean that people on the low legal wage be get 25 % more after tax . that be a significantly big increase than for people on high decile . one of the main thing the shadow Chancellor mention be her amendment on the OBR . I understand the political game of try to draw attention to the mini - Budget , but she should know that the OBR be already legally require to publish two forecast a year , as will happen under this Government at successive autumn statement and spring Budgets . today ' s proposal be dangerous because , despite what she say , it would hamper the Government when act in an emergency , as we do in the pandemic . I will tell she why . instead of take decisive action , government would feel oblige to enter a 12 - week process with the OBR in case the outcome of the independent process that she advocate make any crisis bad by highlight a significant loosening of the fiscal rule . what be most extraordinary about the amendment be that , at the same time that the shadow Chancellor try to claim the mantle of fiscal responsibility in this House , only this morning she brief the paper that she want to unfreeze income tax threshold — a £ 9 billion commitment — and make full expensing permanent , which be a £ 10 billion commitment . that be all without an OBR forecast in sight . that kind of irresponsibility from Labour be exactly why we set up the OBR in the first place . this be an argument not just about job and work but about poverty . labour try to eradicate poverty by tinker with the benefit system and Gordon Brown ' s tax credit . we all remember the " poverty plus a pound " idea , whereby if someone just below the poverty threshold be give £ 1 , they be somehow magically lift out of destitution . instead , the Conservative Government have reduce the number in absolute poverty after housing cost by 1 . 7 million people by make work pay and by reduce the number of child live in workless household , because they be five time more likely to be in absolute poverty than household in which the adult work . make work pay be a moral duty and not just an economic necessity , as only conservative understand . work be the good way to eliminate poverty . what be the Chancellor ' s reflection on the fact that every Labour Government have leave office with unemployment higher ? my reflection be quite simply that the Labour party do not understand how to lift people out of poverty . Labour member do not like we talk about the fact that nearly 2 million people have be lift out of absolute poverty under conservative government , because that do not fit their austerity story , but the reality be that a Conservative Government have be responsible for a very important piece of social progress . I want to turn to the autumn statement , because as we start to win the battle against inflation we can focus on the next stage , which be growth . next week , we will see an autumn statement for growth . because no business can expand without hire additional staff , I will address labour supply issue to help fill the nearly 1 million vacancy we have , work with the excellent Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . that will build on the 30 hour of free childcare offer that I announce for all eligible child over nine month in the spring Budget . I will also focus on increase business investment , because despite the fact that our growth have be fast than that of many of our european neighbour , our productivity be still low . my right hon . friend talk about growth and productivity , and he know that it be my strong view that steel be an incredibly important material for growth here in this country . will he reassure the very concerned steelworker in Scunthorpe that he be concentrate on that , and work on it on our behalf ? my hon . friend have talk to I consistently and powerfully since I become Chancellor about the issue face the steel industry . she be a strong advocate for her constituent . it be at the top of my mind , as we try to chart a well future for British Steel . we will bear in mind the many comment she have make . the shadow Chancellor say in her conference speech that she would remove the barrier to business investment , by " back the builder not the blocker " . only week later , her party promptly u - turn and become a blocker by water down change to the rule on nutrient neutrality , which would have unlock the building of 100 , 000 home . that is 100 , 000 family whose future be on hold because of labour ' s political game . on top of all the measure in the autumn statement , we will have the Bills from the King ' s Speech , include a trade Bill that will confirm our membership of the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , make we part of a group that wield a combined gdp of £ 12 trillion and a presence in the Indo - Pacific , where the majority of global growth will be . the Automated Vehicles Bill , which the shadow Chancellor mock , will make the UK one of the first country in the world to have a legal structure to allow driverless car . the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill will modernise our digital law to boost online shopping by make it safe . the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill will secure our energy independence by replace import oil and gas with domestically produce fuel as we transition to net zero . the Leader of the opposition call the King ' s Speech something that will only bring more of the same . in a way , he be right : more growth , more job , more pay , more opportunity and more prosperity . we be not follow the easy path of open the national cheque book and maxe the country ' s credit card by borrow £ 28 billion a year more ; we be take a path that be more difficult , yes , but more durable , and one that will turn we into one of the most prosperous country in Europe . I commend it to the House . rise — order . some 40 member be seek to contribute to the debate , and we have until 6 . 30 pm . after the Scottish National party spokesperson , I propose to introduce an immediate time limit of six minute , which may have to fall to five . I call the SNP spokesperson . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I do not hold out much hope of enlightenment from this debate , and it be fair to say that I be underwhelme . this be a truly zombie Government , so bereft of idea and talent that they have scour the shed of Chipping Norton to find a former Prime Minister who , along with his liberal Democrat coalition partner , set most of the economic woe on their way for Scotland and the other nation of the UK , and resurrect he into their Cabinet . what a signal ; what a shamble . it be to the shame of Westminster that the Government spend so much time relive past failure , continue to do the same thing over and over — culture war rhetoric , punish the vulnerable , and ignore the suffering of the most vulnerable and the poor . one of the many former Prime Ministers of this fail government — although , to be fair , an elect one — use to talk about those people " just about manage " . I have news for she and for this place : they ain ' t just about manage any more . they be struggle . many more each day be fail to get by . food bill , energy bill , mortgage and rent be crush they . give the misery that the Government have work through austerity , the infamous mini - budget and everything else , they should have put the cost of live at the forefront of the King ' s Speech . they should have listen to those struggle to pay their electricity bill , put food on the table and keep a roof over their head . instead of talk about tent , they should have be talk about rent . while they pound the slogan of division by say " stop the boat " , I trust the public will ensure that all they do for this terrible Government be stop the vote . of course , be accountable and elect be not an issue for this place . the Tories and Labour will always simply create another Lord to do their bidding if they need to do so . in a time so obviously mark by escalate living cost , the no . 1 concern on the doorstep of Scotland — and , I contest , the other nation of the UK — be the cost of living . the King ' s Speech glaringly overlook the need for policy to assist household grapple with food and energy cost , mortgage and rent . while the Scottish Government have make a concerted and targeted effort to shield scot from the brunt of Westminster policy , the omnipresent shadow of these often cruel Westminster directive remain inescapable . the King ' s Speech starkly underscore the unreliability of Westminster Governments in serve Scotland ' s interest , with both the Tories and Labour wed to a low - growth , Brexit - anchor economy . independence and a return to the European Union , where all partner be treat as equal , be the only viable path for the prosperity of Scotland . the Scottish Government , within their limit capacity , strive to cushion scot from Westminster ' s harsh policy , yet Scotland ' s full potential remain constantly stifle under the UK ' s policy regime — a theme I will return to shortly . on the hon . Gentleman ' s logic , if Brexit be the impediment to growth , why be it that since pre - pandemic time Britain have grow fast than either France or Germany ? Tory member keep peddle this line , but what they know , and what everybody else know , be that they start from a low base because they tank the economy in the first place . they have to live up to that responsibility . they claim high growth from a low point of entry . [ interruption . ] they can try to shout I down , but I will make progress . the King ' s Speech , which be alarmingly brief on tackle the cost of living crisis , be a miss opportunity to offer concrete measure for relief . it pay lip service to reduce inflation and ease living cost , but lack substantive policy proposal . labour , too , be offer little on the cost of living crisis . where be the measure that could be take now to help people in their home ? completely absent . of course , that be just part of Labour ' s " don ' t scare the Tory voter " approach to secure office . the UK ' s economic stagnation , which be evidence by recent datum , underscore a systemic failure to foster growth , post financial crisis . there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to help support people , our food and drink industry , or our tourism and hospitality sector . that be something the Chancellor will need to correct before next week . in a UK battling — unlike what the Government claim — rampant destitution , the failure of the King ' s Speech to prioritise poverty reduction be indefensible , with million , include a shocking number of child , unable to meet their basic need . the situation in the UK be dire . Scotland ' s low destitution rate be a testament to SNP policy such as the scottish child payment , but there be no attempt to replicate that anywhere in this House or to suggest that we do so . the eradication of poverty remain a more distant prospect under the current Westminster regime . labour ' s stance , echo Tory rhetoric and policy , leave independence as Scotland ' s only hope for a fair and dynamic economy . the SNP spokesman be outline to the Chamber his utopian world under an SNP Government . can he outline why under the SNP Government education standard in Scotland have fall at record level and NHS standard in Scotland have fall at record level , and why his Government have fail the people of Scotland on the delivery of public service ? that be what the hon . Gentleman have in his prepared statement , but when we look at the fact , we see that that be not correct . Scotland ' s accident and emergency department , for example , have outperform the rest of the UK for the past eight year . we have more doctor and nurse per head of population than anywhere else in the UK . on public service , the Tories be push council to bankruptcy in England . in Scotland , we be manage to negotiate with union to avoid strike and keep the economy move , which be not be replicate by this Tory Government down here . despite constraint , the scottish SNP Government have implement significant policy to alleviate the cost of living crisis . we have freeze council tax , introduce the scottish child payment , support disabled child , offer free school meal and provide free bus travel . those be just a few example of the Scottish Government ' s proactive step . those measure , though effective , highlight the limitation of devolution under the Westminster system , underscore the urgent need for great power in Scotland , for Scotland , to support its citizen fully . despite be a nation rich in energy resource , our people still face the press challenge of fuel poverty and high energy cost . current UK energy policy and management continue to fail the people of Scotland . the fact that our energy wealth be significant be not open to challenge . despite numerous attempt to tell the people of Scotland that their oil and gas resource be run out , the UK Government now say that they will grant new licence every year . Scotland be produce six time more gas than it consume . however , that abundance contrast sharply with the high price they be expect to pay and the increase fuel poverty face by our elderly in particular . in just two year , the fuel poverty rate among pensioner be a concern trend that highlight another disconnect between resource richness and public benefit . Westminster policy have continually fail to translate Scotland ' s natural energy wealth into tangible benefit for its populace — they have do quite the opposite . they have result in an oppressively toxic cost of living and inflationary effect for scottish household . the lack of target measure in the King ' s Speech to address energy bill support far underscore that . critic from various sector have voice their disappointment , emphasise the need for far more action on price , investment and insulation , and many more renewable energy source . the SNP have say we should have a £ 400 energy bill rebate and action on basic cost . we should have mortgage interest rate tax relief and there should be action on food cost , but of course we have not hear that from anywhere else in this Chamber . in response to the challenge pose by Westminster ' s policy , the Scottish Government have be proactive in implement measure to mitigate the impact on its resident . those action include , as I mention , freeze council tax and provide additional support for heating cost for the most severely disabled child and young people during winter . furthermore , the Scottish Government ' s commitment to renewable energy and sustainability align with the broad goal of transition to a clean , more self - sufficient energy future . Westminster have singly fail to invest , most notably over a decade of dither and delay on the peterhead carbon capture opportunity and subsequent potential hydrogen bonanza , and in its abject failure to meet the Scottish Government ' s £ 500 million investment in the just transition — incidentally another area where the Scottish Government have have to step in to plug the gap on reserved Westminster inaction . the transfer of energy , employment , welfare and economic power to the Scottish Parliament be essential . with those power , the Scottish Government could implement more effective policy to support their citizen through the ongoing energy and cost of living crisis . look globally , nation comparable in size to Scotland boast vibrant economy that benefit their citizen . country such as Iceland , Norway and Denmark exhibit low income inequality and poverty rate , and high social mobility compare with the UK . that comparison raise a crucial question : why should Scotland remain tethered to a Westminster system that fail to resonate with its value and hinder its potential to be fair , wealthy and happy ? the King ' s Speech be a stark reminder of Westminster ' s detachment from Scotland ' s need and the UK ' s broad societal challenge . it highlight the necessity of independence for Scotland — the only path that lead towards a more equitable , prosperous future in line with the aspiration and value of the scottish people . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . it have be say that we enjoy a holiday from history between the fall of the Berlin wall and 11 September 2001 , but unfortunately history have now etch two more horrendous date into our memory : 24 February 2022 for Russia ' s evil invasion of Ukraine , and 7 October 2023 for Hamas ' s evil terrorist attack on innocent Israelis . it be against this tumultuous backdrop that we discuss his Majesty ' s historic first Gracious Speech — the first King ' s Speech for 70 year , and a speech that represent a profound moment in the stability and continuity of our unwritten constitution . that we be able to change our sovereign and change our Prime Minister twice last year and arrive at the Gracious Speech with entirely peaceful transition of power be something that we should all find profoundly move . our world seem increasingly dangerous , and around the perimeter of NATO we see terrible conflict and lot of mischief be play to stir up conflict . as a proud member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , I know how important it be that NATO country continue to show unity and that our door be open to new member such as Sweden and Finland , as well as , of course , Ukraine , Moldova and , I hope , Georgia ; I draw attention to my interest in that country . it be time that Putin realise that annex his neighbour give he more NATO on his border , not less . in his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech , there be not a lot to distract the Treasury Committee ; that will come in next week ' s autumn statement — and let I add , in case colleague be interested , that in addition to our Committee ' s scrutiny of that statement , the Bank of England and the financial regulator , we currently have open inquiry into access to finance for small and medium - sized business , quantitative tightening , sexism in the City and central bank digital currency . I be glad that his Majesty , and also the Chancellor today , have emphasise the focus on increase economic growth . I be glad that everyone now agree that we should continue to take action to bring down inflation , ease the cost of live for family , and help business to fund new job and investment . I be also glad that Ministers will help the Bank of England to return inflation to target . it be the Bank of England that have raise mortgage rate , and the Governor of the Bank of England have acknowledge that the only increase that mortgage payer be now see be thank to its effort to control inflation and be nothing to do with the decision of our now responsible Treasury . these decision will help household finance , reduce public sector debt and safeguard the financial security of our country , about which my constituent care deeply . tomorrow we should see a milestone in the quest to reduce inflation : the market expect the consumer price index to decline to 4 . 7 % , and , combine with wage growth of more than 7 % , that mean that real wage growth have return to our economy . we have also see low pay fall dramatically : few than 10 % of the many million more people who be now in work be low pay , thank to the national living wage . there be one omission from the Gracious Speech , in respect of what I regard as constitutional sexism in our country . no step be announce to end the indefensible system of " man only " seat in the other place . the 92 hereditary peerage be almost exclusively for man , and the Hereditary Titles ( Female Succession ) Bill , which I try to get enact in the last parliamentary session in order to change that , sadly do not make it on to the statute book . I shall try again to get a good slot in the ballot for private member ' Bills , and if I do so , I will reintroduce that Bill . if I do not get a good slot , I will invite my colleague to take up the baton . we now come to a maiden speech . it be a real honour to be here , speak in this King ' s Speech debate , after a by - election campaign that go on for one or two month long than I think some of we anticipate . however , it leave I with friendship and experience that I hope will stay with I throughout my lifetime . there be perhaps one or two memory of slightly scar use of statistic in leaflet , but the math teacher in I hope that I will be able to forget those rather soon . Most of all , there be an overwhelming sense that the community I represent be look for change , a change back to a stable Government look to the long term with a plan to get our future back on track : to make sure our community can plan for the future with confidence again , rather than worry about where the next setback will come from ; to ensure that our business of the future can invest with confidence again , and seize the benefit of the industrial transition to come ; and to ensure that our fantastic rural farming community can get back to plough on with confidence , put food on our plate and look after our fantastic countryside . this be my maiden speech , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Nadine Dorries . I think it fair to say that we differ somewhat in politic and personal style , but it be clear to I that she break through many barrier on her way to this House , and she should take great pride in that . I also want to thank not one but two Prime Ministers for their incredibly warm welcome to the House over recent week , although I have to warn the current Prime Minister that although there be some area in which I differ from my predecessor , I intend to continue her proud tradition of robust opposition to this Government . let I give credit where it be due , though . I be aware that by - election over recent week have deprive the Government of a number of member to take up Front - Bench position , but I have to applaud the Prime Minister ' s surprise creativity yesterday in fill one of those spot . it have give I an unexpected opportunity to repay that bipartisanship , and to extend a warm welcome back to the former Prime Minister as he return to frontline politic . as a fellow Aston Villa fan , though , I really hope that his time as Foreign Secretary will not deprive he of an opportunity to enjoy our beloved team at the London stadium . [ laughter . ] I be embarrassed to admit that if some time ago someone have tell I that I would be stand here as the Labour MP for Mid Beds , I would have respond in language that could only have be describe as rather unparliamentary . while they may come from very different background , my friend , my family — who be here today — my former pupil and my former colleague at the Bank of England may all be have a similar reaction to see I here in the Chamber . however , I could not be prouder to have the honour of represent part of the county I grow up in . although the name of my constituency may suggest otherwise , there be absolutely nothing middling about the beautiful 48 town and village of Mid Bedfordshire . take full advantage of the convention that maiden speech be make without interruption , I fully intend to make use of this opportunity to talk at great length , in great detail , about each and every one of those 48 town and village and what make they special . I know that member will welcome that : I can feel the enthusiasm in the Chamber . [ Laughter . ] I be sorry to disappoint some , however , but I will try to keep it brief , as I explain why those who be unable to join we on the by - election trail really do miss out . from the beautiful village of Shillington to our picturesque market town of Shefford to our fantastic Norman monastery in Woburn , Mid Bedfordshire really do have something for everyone . in Cranfield , Members will find one of the good example of our world - lead research , innovation and enterprise combine . Cranfield Aerospace be propel forward green aviation , lead on proposal for hydrogen - fuel flight base on research undertake at Cranfield University . along the Greensand Ridge , walker will find some of the good countryside that Britain have to offer , from Woburn through Millbrook to Ampthill and beyond . that will also give member the crucial chance to keep those step up ahead of any future by - election . as they near Flitwick , Members will find Woburn Center Parcs , with which many family from right across the country will be familiar from getaway and celebration over the year , and where hundred of my constituent work all the year round to bring joy to holidaymaker . let I draw the attention of the whip on both side of the House to the Subtropical Swimming Paradise . as well as a great place to spend an afternoon , I suggest that it might be a more amenable option for the whip to offer member should they approach they in the future , feel the lure of an escape to the jungle that might be on the card and want some advice about what to do next . but as anyone who have be to my constituency will know , it be not just the place that be so special ; it be the people live there . People like Rob and Sue who , have form a close bond with their community in Harlington through covid , want to do more to bring they together after lockdown . they found the fantastic Hub and Spoke caf é , which continue to go from strength to strength in delight resident , and also recently impress as robust a critic as the odd " Newsnight " journalist . People like Richard and the whole ampthill firework organise committee , who step up when the treasured local firework display be under threat back in 2011 to ensure that it continue . they put on a display each year that wow thousand and raise many thousand more for really fantastic charity across my constituency . and people like Lou and Shaun , who have put so much into make the Brewery Tap in Shefford such a beloved pillar of our community . they run charity breakfast and organise armed service day , and crucially , they have recently have to put up with rather more visit from a certain labour parliamentary candidate , now the MP , than any publican should have to endure , but they do so with a brave and smile face . from these story , Mr Speaker , you might be under the impression that all be well in my constituency and that life for everyone be rosy , but sadly the great potential of my place be not on offer to all my resident . take Margaret from Broom , who be in her 60 , partially sight and in poor health . for month she have be wait to see her gp . for month she have be phone up at 8 am and wait until 9 am , only to be tell yet again that there be no appointment available . yet again , she would have to phone back another day . after month of waiting , her understandable anxiety about her health get too much for she , and she have to spend the limited saving available to she to see a gp privately , pay for something that should have be free to she at the point of use . this can not be right . or take Steven and his family in Stewartby . they do everything right . they save up , work hard and buy the family home of their dream on a nearby estate . but when mortgage rate rocket up , their repayment go up by nearly £ 400 a month . that be an amount that no ordinary family can be expect to have to hand , and it mean that hard choice have to be make : holiday cancel , enrich opportunity forgone and life narrow under the brutal reality of have to budget for an economic situation that be not of their making . or take Sarah and her daughter . Sarah have to wait for over a year just to have the authority recognise the need for her daughter to have an education and health assessment , and after that , she have be wait over two year for the assessment to take place . every day in the meantime she have to go through the heartbreak of see her daughter struggle in a school that be do everything it can to support she but be be set up to fail . the courage show by all these family , and the determination they have show in the face of adversity , should give all of we encouragement and hope for the future , but they can not be expect to build that well future alone . they need their representative to speak up for they in this place , and they need the Government to act for they with the urgency that these challenge demand . because every hour Margaret spend wait on that phone line , fill with anxiety , be an hour that she be never get back . because every holiday cancel and every opportunity forgone by Steven ' s family be a childhood memory that will never be make . every day that Sarah ' s daughter go to school and be unable to thrive be a day ' s potential that will be forever have be waste . this be an urgency that I feel deeply and that I pledge to carry with I every day that I be lucky enough to serve my constituent in this House . at a time when global and national challenge can be so wide range as to feel almost insurmountable , it be so important that our politician remain bold in keep hope alive . at a time when actor seek to exploit divisive and thorny issue to sow division among our community , we need our politician to stay principled and act with the integrity and good faith this House demand . at a time when the disruptive opportunity pose by the green transition and technological development also bring with they understandable anxiety , we need our politician not to run away from they but to be bold in bend those force to the need of our community and seize their benefit for our country . I be under no illusion that I will face great challenge in live up to these principle in this place , but my door will always be open to anyone from right across the Chamber who be willing to work with I — and not just because of the number of time over the last few week that I have manage to lock myself out of my office . to those back home in Mid Bedfordshire , I would like to say thank you . thank you for the positivity and warmth you show I every day on the campaign trail . thank you for the idea and creativity you bring to I every month that fill I with such hope for the future . but most of all , thank you for the privilege of my life : the opportunity to serve you here as our MP . I warmly commend the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) on what I think be an excellent maiden speech . the movement have a funny way of deliver its end these day , but I think it have come up with an excellent candidate in he and I wish he an enjoyable career in this place and serve his constituent . as he rightly say , it be the privilege of one ' s life to represent where you grow up and I know he be obviously very aware of that , and give that we have all have the opportunity to enjoy Mid Bedfordshire at length over recent month , I share his diagnosis of its charm . it be an absolute privilege to open the Back - Bench speech this afternoon on the main topic of our debate , because my community , like the hon . Gentleman ' s , be also look for change . on Teesside , we need no lesson about the legacy of the last Labour Government . frankly , we have have to live with they for too long : an industrial base abandon ; life blight by welfarism and low unemployment ; and public service characterise by mediocrity and failure . this come the week after British Steel announce that steelmaking be come back to Teesside , which be a decision of huge significance for my local economy and follow a string of major success , from the seah offshore wind factory , the new Net Zero Teesside power station and carbon capture and storage — all the thing that our Mayor Ben Houchen , work together in lockstep with the Conservative Government , be help to deliver for a part of the country that need this success and opportunity . I look forward to the autumn statement this week , and I welcome the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) to her position in my former bailiwick as Chief Secretary . the autumn statement represent an enormously important moment and all of we — on the Government side of the House at least — want to see pro - growth measure , the lowering of the tax burden when possible and a robust commitment not to take we back to the disastrous economic prescription of the Labour party . we have to recognise that it be at a time of global challenge here at home that we have some of the most important policy lever to improve our constituent ' life . I warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment to act on leasehold and renter reform , but I also believe that we need to recognise the need in the housing sector for serious , sustain reconsideration of our planning law if we be to ensure that the potential of this country be fulfil . ultimately , the honest truth be that we need to earn growth and not duck the fundamental reason why it be so lacklustre . many of we be aghast at the decision last week to block a new , much - need £ 2 . 5 billion datacentre on the site of an old quarry adjacent to the M25 . it be block on the basis that it would " harm the openness of the green belt " and would have be visible from bridge over the motorway . this be madness . we can delude ourselves all we want about be a science superpower or a new silicon valley , but if we do not will the mean , we will not secure the end that this country need to see . our crippling lack of predictable , secure land supply be testament to a wide political failure . that apply on a cross - party basis . ultimately , one could point the finger at the Mayor of London and his dismal record on housing just as much as one could at my own side of the House , but we need to move forward on a cross - party basis at local and national Government level to achieve a well system of planning . ultimately , the current discretionary system be not deliver for my constituent or for my country , and I believe that a move , as the Growth Commission have suggest this morning , to a zonal planning system along the line suggest by my right hon . friend Boris Johnson when he be Prime Minister and by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) when he be Secretary of State , would be the right thing to do . Schroders have estimate that house price be at their least affordable compare with earning since ' 76 . that be not the long hot summer of 1976 but 1876 , the year Victoria become Empress of India . all our infrastructure capacity be be hamstring by the underlying problem that we can not build quickly enough where we need to . road , rail , datum , energy and , most of all , good affordable home be be delay , make more expensive and in some case be prevent entirely by this british disease . apart from the usual Westminster knockabout that a debate like this inevitably engender , I think there be a serious point for member across the House to consider , which be that there be a broken planning system at the heart of our society . whether in central Bedfordshire or in Middlesbrough , we need to do more to make sure we can unlock growth , job , home and opportunity . our politic deserve well and the public deserve well . this be not a right versus left issue ; it be about growth versus stagnation , prosperity versus poverty or ambition versus relative decline . I hope that , over the month ahead , the Government will do much to take forward an ambitious agenda in this space . I pay tribute to the outstanding speech by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) . it be one of the very good maiden speech I have hear in this House . it have humour and seriousness . he succinctly describe his predecessor in a couple of sentence , and in one sentence he demonstrate his superior knowledge of football compare with the Foreign Secretary . many people watch across the country will now be reflect , " if that be the quality of representative we could get by vote for change , perhaps we will give it a go at the next general election , too . " housing be not mention in the King ' s Speech . we have a housing crisis in this country , and both side of the House share an aspiration to build 300 , 000 home a year . I agree with the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) that we be not build enough home — that be true — but who have just change the planning system to take away housing target from local area ? we will never get to 300 , 000 unless each area have its own housing target that add up to that number . a further problem be that we will never hit 300 , 000 through the private sector alone . the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee produce a report four year ago say that we need to provide at least 90 , 000 unit of social housing through housing association and council . the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee be hold an inquiry now , and all the evidence show that we simply do not have the resource . there be a challenge for both Front Benches . we will have to find more money at some point to build more social housing in this country , both to get the number we need and to get the number that people can afford , as people can not afford to go into the market to buy in the current circumstance . so many people have to save for year , even beyond retirement , for a deposit on a home . rise mortgage cost be certainly not help . there be a promise to abolish section 21 notice in the private rented sector , but we be now tell the Bill will wait until some future time — we do not know when — when the court system have be reform . yes , the court system need to be reform , and we ought to have a dedicated housing court , but the cost to local authority of deal with homelessness and temporary accommodation have rise by 50 % in the last two year alone . that be due to section 21 notice , the local housing allowance freeze — many people can not afford even to rent a home in the private sector — and the Government ' s asylum policy , which be all over the place and be put great pressure on local authority in some part of the country to house people while they be have their asylum position confirm . we have a massive challenge , and there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to deal with it . we ought to address how we build home for the future . four year ago , the Government have a work party on modern construction method , but they have forget about it . they have give up . I go to visit Lighthouse , a firm in my constituency that have just take on 100 worker . the firm have double in size and be venture into modern method of construction for social housing . the Government should be encouraging that at national level , but there be nothing at all . there be no policy , no strategy and no plan for the future . level up be not mention in the King ' s Speech either . Germany see the inequality across the country after reunification , so it have a 30 - year programme . the inequality in this country be now as great as it be in Germany on reunification , yet all we have have be £ 4 billion in scatter pot of money for local authority to bid for . there be no strategy and no long - term solution . level up , again , appear to have be forget but , if we be to get our economy grow as a whole , we have to address the disparity in gross value add , productivity and income level between different part of the country . productivity in the north of England be now low than in the Czech Republic . GVA in our major city be low than the national average , which be completely different from what happen in Germany and France . we need to get the whole country and the whole economy grow but , again , there be no plan , no strategy and no long - term future for this country . there be one or two good thing in the King ' s Speech , and I welcome they . we have not yet see the detail of the leasehold reform , but certainly stop the building of new leasehold house and allow people more easily to purchase their freehold be good measure that we need to implement as soon as possible . address the problem of service charge and outrageous permission fee also need to be in the Bill . I also welcome the proposal on football regulation . it be about get a fairer distribution of funding and give fan the legal right to be consult on important thing that affect their club ; again , we will have to see the detail . finally , I completely condemn Hamas ' s attack on innocent israeli citizen , but I condemn just as strongly what Israel be now do . the killing of innocent woman , child and other civilian in Gaza be not acceptable and can not continue as it be . I want to see a humanitarian pause and an end to the blockade to get aid into Gaza , and I want to see that as the basis for a ceasefire . a ceasefire can not just be announce ; both party need to sit down and agree to one . that have to be do , and it have to be a step - stone to move forward to a two - state solution : safety for Israel and a free Palestine , free of israeli occupation . that be what we should be move towards . I also welcome my hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) to her new post . her promotion be richly deserve . one thing on which I be sure we can all agree in this House be the need to create non - inflationary growth in this country . the question be how we go about it and , to some extent , how we define it . I say to my hon . friend that gross domestic product , as a measure of growth , be become an increasingly less relevant index in our economy because , although economic growth have be low across the western economy , balance sheet and net worth have triple ; there be a dislocation there . GDP need to take domestic unpaid labour , such as child or elderly care , into account . it exclude a huge proportion of what happen online , as well as intangible such as intellectual property , and be much less suited to a service economy than to a manufacture economy . it also have the perverse incentive of make we want to encourage immigration , rather than discourage it . when we have the wrong analysis , we be likely to have the wrong target and , ultimately , the wrong policy . that need to change . we need to concentrate on wealth creation , which happen when we take unique ip from any of we and turn it into a good or service that do not currently exist , or into a well good or service than exist today . we have a problem that , in a capitalist economy , we can not get that sort of wealth creation if there be not sufficient access to capital . one problem in the UK be that 85 % of company scale - up here be do with bank lending and 15 % be do with private equity , whereas it be 80 : 20 in the other direction in the United States . we need to have deep and wide access to private equity and venture capital in this country if we be to maximise the benefit of our hugely creative and innovative population , and if we be to stop the ip leakage , especially to the United States . we also need to create more wealth by improve our share of global trade , by which I mean the share of global market that be expand fast , and not our obsession with the European Union . the late Institute of Economic Affairs report show that trade continue to grow between 2016 and the conclusion of the Brexit transition in 2020 , indicate that Brexit have no main effect on trade . UK good export rise by 13 . 5 % to EU country and by 14 . 3 % to non - EU country between 2019 and 2022 , so we need to put that issue behind we and instead focus on the world ' s grow market . the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast say that Brexit barrier would result in a 15 % drop in trade volume , contribute to a 4 % low gdp in the long run , and that be already clearly wrong . I ask those on the Government Front Bench to request from the OBR a much more updated and realistic assessment of where our trade sit at the present time . contrary to what many people will perceive , and certainly to what the Labour party will tend to suggest , 82 . 5 % of all the job in this country be in the private sector and only 17 . 5 % be in the public sector . from listen to our medium and politician , we would often think this be 50 : 50 . some 61 % of those private sector job be in small and medium - sized enterprise . I know that if we be able to cut taxis , many of my colleague will want to see personal taxis cut , but our priority should be to cut taxis for small business , because they be the one that create prosperity and employment . they be the mainstay of our economy . in particular , I would like to see more Government action on late payment , particularly by local authority ; this be taxpayer ' money that should be get through to sme on time , and the fact that it be not be a scandal . I would also like to see the retail , hospitality and leisure business rate discount extend to give many of the company struggle in that sector the help they require . we also need to look at other element , include the broadband infrastructure in our country . constituency like mine still contain place with no broadband . it be ridiculous that we be put public money into the programme and yet leave part of our economy without any of the advantage they require to participate fully in our economy . we be tell that we would get that broadband at the end of 2022 and then we be tell it would be in spring 2023 . it be then to be October 2023 , and now we have no idea when we will get it . I say to the Minister that the Treasury need to give a kick up the proverbial to other Departments to make sure they be carry out the promise that the Government make at the last election to stop some of the limitation in the rural economy and to get that infrastructure in place . finally , I want to say a quick word about the Bank of England . it have operational independence , but where be the accountability ? we be tell that inflation would be transitory and that there be external influence involve . I look at the letter between the Governor of the Bank of England and the Chancellor , and not once do they mention monetary stability or the fact that we have have an expansion of our money supply for far too long , at far too great a level . these be not round error . if we get extra inflation create by monetary expansion that be too fast , it will affect the poor in our society and the balance of our public finance , and it will cost taxpayer money . I have no problem with the Bank of England have operational independence , but what I want to know be : when it get it wrong , who be it accountable to ? ultimately , it be the taxpayer and the people of this country who pay the bill , not those who be well pay in the Bank of England . after 13 tortuous year , the policy programme in the King ' s Speech reaffirm once more that this Conservative Government be out of idea and out of time . unfortunately , the resurrection of a former Prime Minister will not save they here . give Lord Cameron ' s disregard for standard in public life , which include dubious dealing during the covid pandemic on behalf of Lex Greensill , who be still be investigate by the Serious Fraud Office , it say a lot that the Prime Minister be prepared to appoint he despite that . the Prime Minister need to take responsibility for the consequence of 13 year of regressive economic policy and economic mismanagement , which have lead to a flatline economy and the misery that so many people be face in this cost of living crisis . over the past 13 year , we have see inequality widen , as covid have so cruelly expose and amplify . once again , we have see the north - south health divide reveal , with 17 % more covid death in the north than in the rest of England . some here will recall the black report in 1982 , which be quickly follow by the health divide report in 1984 , where for the first time the extent of the north - south health divide be reveal . some 40 year on , the same thing have be allow to happen again under yet more conservative government . it do not just happen ; Professor Sir Michael Marmot warn we about this in 2010 , 2016 and early 2020 in his various report about the UK ' s decline life expectancy , which be drive by socioeconomic inequality . he make very sensible recommendation to address the situation but , again , where be those in this King ' s Speech ? worryingly , recent analysis find that a deprived area in the north of England have a high level of covid death compare with an equally deprive area in the south ; there be an " amplification of deprivation " effect . contrary to level up the country , this Government have not learn any lesson from covid and why the north be bad affect than the south , or why people on the low income , those who be disabled and those who be from an ethnic minority community be more likely to get sick and die . as the Northern Health Science Alliance ' s recent report show , the implication of these regional health inequality on the economy be vast . before the pandemic , people in the north be live , on average , two year less than people in the rest of England . in addition to live short life , they be live in poor health for long , be at increase risk of lose their job because of that ill health , and be put on low wage if and when they return to work . the NHSA estimate that £ 13 . 2 billion a year would be add to regional gdp if the health of the population in the north be equivalent to that of the rest of England , as a result of improved productivity . the disproportionate ill health that people experience in the north reflect decade of under - investment there after the decline of many traditional industry , the ensue poverty and inequality that accompany that , and the fact that this have persist over many generation . where be the cross - departmental working to ensure health in all policy in the King ' s Speech ? where be the join - up work with the devolved nation and region ? where be the fair funding formulae , not just for the NHS but for education , local authority and public service as a whole ? economic inactivity across the UK have stay at about 21 % for a number of year , with a short blip in 2022 , with covid . the Government ' s response to that should not be to penalise people who be sick or disabled by withdraw even more social security support , for example , through sanction or cut to universal credit , as be report yesterday , but to provide the right type of support for people in the right way . I be call on the Chancellor to ensure that he increase social security support by at least inflation . I also hope he listen to the many charity in this area , include the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , the Trussell Trust and the Child Poverty Action Group , and support an essential guarantee peg UC to the cost of basic essential . without that , I fear that the 200 claimant death that the Department for Work and Pensions have investigate over the past three year , which we know be the tip of the iceberg , will increase . the Prime Minister say he want to lead a compassionate government ; ensure a compassionate social security system that will help to reduce the poverty and inequality that million be experience be just one example of how he can do that . the absence of this compassion for our fellow citizen , and indeed for our brother and sister overseas , be reveal uncomfortable truth about the attitude of some to our common humanity . we believe that as human being we be all equal , with equal right , as set out in the universal declaration of human right . it be evident not just in the covid inquiry , but every day in foreign and domestic policy , and in the policy programme in this King ' s Speech , which embed rather than tackle inequality , that for this government some people be more equal than other . it be a pleasure and an honour to contribute to the debate . I congratulate his Majesty on deliver the King ' s Speech last week , follow in the footstep of his late , great mother and undertake his constitutional duty to Parliament and our country . I also wish he a happy birthday today . with the autumn statement just eight day away , it be clear that we need to see ambitious fiscal measure introduce to complement the economic growth provision outline in the King ' s Speech . tackle inflation have rightly be one of the Government ' s priority : we understand the corrosive effect of inflation on the economy , economic growth and household around the country . we need the rate to fall far , to manageable level , but we must also increase supply through reform and low business cost to ultimately help bring down inflation . there be many measure I would like to touch on in the time I have available . one , which I speak about early this year , be the 5p reduction in fuel duty that the Chancellor maintain in the spring , which be incredibly welcome . such measure be essential , as they can make a huge difference to household and business across the country . against an inflationary backdrop — although we know it be decrease — this matter because it help to bring cost down across the whole economy and , importantly , can help business and motorist . I say that as an MP from Essex , where we be proud of white van man and where driver come into London , in particular . let we not forget that there be other pressure on motorist in London because of the additional burden they now face , such as the ultra low emission zone . alongside that , there be the issue of business rate , which I often speak about . they be a fixed cost to business , but actually impede growth on our high street . as we know , our high street and town centre be struggle for many reason . if address in a consider way by Government , a freeze in the business rate multiplier can help small business and firm to keep their cost down . I press the Government to maintain the freeze in the multipli and look at reform to lower the cost burden of business rate , which be have such a corrosive impact . some 80 % of my constituent be employ by sme , which be 20 % high than the national average . we be very proud of that . Essex be an entrepreneurial county and we be risk taker . we like run our own business and be self - employ , but that mean that the share of the burden on those small business be much high . as conservative in government , we must always look to tackle that . to return to my other favourite subject , the Government be aware of my concern about the OECD plan for minimum level of corporation tax and the way the Government be roll they out . I fundamentally maintain the position I have take on this issue , and the Chancellor of the Exchequer have give I assurance over the assessment and analysis that will be carry out of its impact . we touch on this during discussion about the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 , but those measure will make our country less competitive . they will have an overall impact on business , foreign direct investment and investment in our country , so I will want to press Ministers on the review of they go forward . I also maintain my position on income tax . the tax system need to be simplify and fair , and we need to reduce the burden on family and business , include level of personal taxation . one of the core mission of the conservative party be to support economic freedom and liberty by cut taxis , ensure people can keep more of what they earn and encourage the development of a property - own democracy , which have be a topic of discussion in the Chamber this afternoon . universally , we in this Chamber know we need reform on planning and that we need to do more on social housing , as well as grow housing across the country in a sustainable and suitable way . People be struggle and the cost of own property , or even get a foot on the housing ladder , be astronomical , so we need to do more . I could go on to other statistic , but in the interest of time I will raise another couple of local issue . in Essex , we be cry out for infrastructure investment . I will happily write business case to the Treasury on dualle the a120 and expand the A12 . we have have a tremendously successful programme of investment on the great eastern main line because of a business case that go to the Treasury 12 year ago . we be proud of that , and that growth be now pay off . I want to press the case on pylon and the Winser review . in Essex , we have concern , which the Treasury must listen to , about the implication of the review . I support the wide measure on energy production and the introduction of the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , but more need to be do . to conclude , I welcome the framework of measure , but we have to look at the detail on support supply - side reform , lower taxis for business , make sure our economy grow in a sustainable way and deal with the challenge of inflation , so that we ensure our economy grow for decade to come . the King ' s Speech open with an aspiration to raise economic growth , but be devoid of a single clue to how the Government intend to achieve that . there be nothing about a skill development strategy , nothing to address decline apprenticeship number for 16 to 18 - year - old , and nothing on the investment require to get Britain work again . the Chancellor now want we to believe that all will be put right in the autumn statement — methink we ' re go to need a big statement . the Government foist Brexit on we without a plan to implement it , so what do the Prime Minister do in his hour of need ? he bring back the planless man whose reckless behaviour cause so much difficulty . it be like Oliver Hardy ask Stanley for help . at 6 . 7 % , inflation be still a long way from the 2 % target , with little evidence that government action , rather than commodity price reduction , be account for the limited progress that we have see . in fact , the interest rate rise force on the Bank of England be more likely to damage business and living standard . increase mortgage will cost UK household £ 9 billion over this year and next . how will we raise economic growth with a Government who can not even secure our ability to produce our own steel ? some 2 , 000 job be at risk in Scunthorpe while the government do nothing . just how safe and secure should anyone feel with a Government who have entrust our steelmaking to the Chinese ? last year , this country experience what happen when government speculate with unfunded tax plan . there be always a price to pay when gambler lose control , but it be the british people who be pay that price with wrecked living standard . the behaviour of the conservative party have destroy the prospect of family the length and breadth of this country . when will the Government take responsibility for the misery that they have cause ? this be a Government of 25 tax rise , but what do we have to show for it ? we have crumble school , an NHS on its knee , crime out of control , living standard plummet and even life expectancy fall in 21st - century Tory Britain . the truth be that virtually nothing work anymore . there be hardly a family in the land , apart from the covid profiteer , who can claim to be well off than they be 13 year ago . just think what we could do with the estimate £ 7 . 2 billion of fraudulent covid payment over which this Prime Minister preside and which this Government be prepared to write off . lest it appear that I think there be nothing of benefit in this King ' s Speech , I welcome action to curtail drip pricing and subscription trap , which I hope will eventually be deliver via the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . it be long overdue . it be time that online business pay their fair share of taxis . it be time to breathe new life into our high street by abandon outdated business rate , and — I say this in respect for Shopworkers Week — crack down on retail crime , which , accord to new research from Thruvision and Retail Economics , will reach £ 7 . 9 billion this year . it be turn shop into dangerous work environment and no - go area for too many customer . let we think of the possibility for job , growth and wealth creation in life science , creative industry , the green economy and financial service if only we have a Government who know the value of an industrial strategy and be prepared to secure the necessary investment . instead , we have a Government who make we a laugh stock over their inability to build a modern railway , and manage to let hs2 end up £ 30 billion over budget . just who will be call to account for that incompetence ? I want to be able to offer hope to the brilliant Kath ' s Caf é in Druids Heath as it struggle with increase supply cost and customer ' decline living standard , to Cameron - Price , a great local manufacturing business that be toil to find the skilled worker it need , and to Loaf organic bakery , a popular and entrepreneurial venture , but without any Government support in the face of crippling electricity cost . we need a King ' s Speech to offer hope to the homeless , to support well - pay job , to tackle the mental health crisis and to address the gang and the scourge of antisocial behaviour disfigure our community . we need a King ' s Speech to get Britain work again . this be not it . I warmly welcome my hon . friend the Chief Secretary to her new position . last week we be all allow to see the historic spectacle of the King give his first speech to this House . there be many historic spectacle associate with the speech , and today , entertainingly , the shadow Chancellor play her role , which be to claim that nothing have ever go right with the Government and that there be nothing in the King ' s Speech at all . of course , on bald number the shadow Chancellor be wrong , because it be clear that since 2010 the UK have have the third - high growth in the G7 and 3 . 9 million more people be employ . however , that do not mean that growth should not be a priority , especially give the long - term supply002dside shock this economy have have from covid and the current crisis in Ukraine — although that seem to be forget at the moment — cause other energy shock . it be therefore encouraging that the preoccupation of the King ' s Speech and of this Government be to promote economic growth . it be right to start by talk about support the Bank of England in take measure that will reduce inflation . inflation be economically corrosive , and it be the job of government to be financially responsible . when inflation be stable at low level , we see the encouragement of personal saving , which be a benefit , we see less pressure for people from what be describe as the cost of living , and we see business invest . it reduce some of the inefficiency that economist talk about and rigidity in the economy . it be key that we take measure and encourage the Bank of England to bring down inflation in order to have high growth . one such measure be to ensure that , for the next part of the 21st century , we look at the industry that both the Government and the private sector can foster so that we see sustained economic growth . the United Kingdom have the chance to be the world leader in many high - tech industry . the shadow Chancellor be right to welcome what the Government do in the spring statement with 100 % expensing ; it be the right thing to do , because it encourage business to invest . however , we can make it permanent only if we do away with some of the grant and take other action to make it fiscally neutral , and it be of more benefit if it do not go only into plant and machinery . I urge the Government to look at a system that allow research - intensive industry to put research and development cost into full expensing as well . the industry of the future be mention in the King ' s Speech . I welcome the measure that we will see and discuss in the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill and the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . another industry of the future in which we must ensure that we remain a world leader , have be a world leader in it for the last 40 year , be the car industry . we must do more to encourage the electric vehicle industry . there be some simple measure that the Government could enact to encourage more people to take up electric vehicle . the first be the stabilisation and equalisation of vat , so that people charge their vehicle in a public or a private place pay the same rate . the second be to put a presumption on local authority to have byelaw permit safety gullies , to allow charge by those who do not have access to their own off - street parking . those be simple thing that the Government will do to encourage growth . the Government rightly recognise the importance of the quality of infrastructure and get more people to invest in it . one thing that be not in the King ' s Speech but be be circulate be the new rail reform Bill . I welcome some of the measure in that Bill , but we will need to look again at it because there be far too much emphasis on what the public sector do , and not enough on what the private sector could do — it could do more . I welcome , and hope to see more use of , initiative such as the Mansion House compact . I encourage the Government to think about how first - time buyer could use their pension fund to fund deposit , use something similar to what we have with self - invest personal pension , which allow people to take out 25 % tax free . economic growth for everybody across the world be difficult to achieve at the moment , but there be measure in the King ' s Speech — as , I have no doubt , there will be in next week ' s autumn statement — that will allow that growth to prosper . I welcome the King ' s Speech . the question that all our constituent be ask be : " be that it ? after 13 year , be that all this Government have to offer ? " this be a King ' s Speech so pointless that it could be an answer on the game show . it come from a Prime Minister who be act like one of the contestant on " I ' m a Celebrity . . . get I out of here ! " — desperate to do anything to stay in charge . frankly , our constituent deserve well . many member have speak about the deep - seat challenge in our country , such as the lack of growth . after 13 year of this Government , we have a society in which the bank of mum and dad determine outcome , not talent . in the last decade alone , housing and stock and share have earn far more than any hard work or effort that our constituent could undertake , because of sluggish productivity and the Government ' s failure to invest in our community . our kid can not get apprenticeship ; they be struggle to stay in university . [ interruption . ] the Minister be shake her head . I invite she to come and meet my local resident , who beg I for apprenticeship . they be still reel from the impact of the pandemic . they be scar by where they live and who their parent be , because that be what determine their outcome . it be a mark of shame for we that we live in a country in which the exam result of black child be , on average , almost 10 % low than those of their white counterpart . nothing be change any time soon , and the King ' s Speech will do little . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) set out the housing crisis . when I see the other crisis that we be face , I suppose I should be careful what I wish for , because when face with the climate crisis , the Government ' s response be to go hard on fossil fuel rather than recognise that renewable be cheap and that , if we be to tackle both the cost of live crisis and the climate crisis , we should put those thing together rather than ask our community to choose . of course , nothing in the King ' s Speech deal with the elephant in the room that be Brexit . I be sad that the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) be no long in his place after his valiant attempt to claim that Brexit have have a positive impact on our country and community . the economic data suggest otherwise , so let I give he some other figure . eurostat figure show that export have fall by 14 % in the last year and that UK to EU trade of good be down 16 % . European Central Bank research show that 77 % of firm in this country say that the Brexit deal be not help their sale . indeed , our constituent be face a £ 250 surcharge on their food bill alone . the King ' s Speech could have deal with the fact that , in the come year , Brexit ' s impact on inflation will get a lot bad . our constituent will face a £ 43 - a - time charge on anything import into the UK . food will get more expensive — not my word but those of the Government ' s own record . there will a £ 10 charge to enter the UK . what will that do to our stutter tourism industry , which be try to recover after the pandemic ? the King ' s Speech be silent on all those challenge , and try to suggest that trade through the CPTPP will make up for the trade lose on our doorstep . the King ' s Speech offer a Criminal Justice Bill , which I welcome . it be time that we finally sort out the inequality that mean that my Walthamstow constituent have few human right when it come to choose to have an abortion than constituent in Belfast . sentence guideline will not deal with the fact that hundred of woman be now be prosecute under outdated abortion legislation . it be time for decriminalisation , and perhaps one of the few positive thing we can do in the year to come be to sort that . I wish to correct the record . early I say that in the time it have take for the Government to fail to do anything about buy now , pay later lender , the number of people borrow from these company have double — it have actually triple . forty per cent of people who be borrow from buy now , pay later company say they be in direct financial difficulty because of it , and these company be benefit from the Government ' s failure to regulate they . I care as much about legal loan shark in the private sector as I do about those in the public sector . the regulation of these company be long overdue , and if this Government do not do it , wait for a Labour Government to do it will mean another year and another explosion in the million of people borrow from they . in the next year , we will see a crisis in our childcare industry , because the Government have push up the cost of childcare without provide the subsidy for it . we need to go far . it be not just about provide high - quality childcare ; it be about help every family to make the choice they want . only 5 % of dad report take share parental leave , because our share parental leave system do not work ; it ask the mum ' s employer to pay the cost , rather than share they . some 80 % of dad say they do not have enough time with their kid as a result . these be challenge that we could deal with , but this King ' s Speech will do nothing to solve they . as I say , public sector legal loan shark need to be deal with , too . in the next year alone , private finance initiative deal will cost this country £ 9 . 8 billion in repayment . PFI be something that all government have use , and we need to tackle it . we have £ 200 billion - worth of commitment come our way — money that could be go back into our public service if we fight for a well deal for our taxpayer . what we be see be small response to big challenge , not least to the big challenge of all , which be the uncertainty and conflict around the world . everybody in this Chamber want the bloodshed to stop in Israel and Gaza . everybody in this Chamber , I hope , stand with people like my constituent whose parent have be kidnap by Hamas and want to see they return and to see the dismantling of Hamas as a terrorist organisation . a humanitarian pause would require the same type of negotiation as a ceasefire . let we stand together with our international partner and put pressure on those partner who can put pressure on Hamas to get people round the table . let we challenge Israel to stand up for international humanitarian law , and let we stop the bloodshed . this King ' s Speech do nothing to achieve that , but it could have do . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate on the King ' s Speech . it be poignant to attend the House of Lords last week to hear his Majesty ' s first King ' s Speech . it be perhaps appropriate that this debate take place on Charles III ' s 75th birthday , and we all wish he a very happy day indeed . at the beginning of this Parliament , almost four year ago , I do not think anyone could have predict the event that would unfold after just a few month , with the global covid - 19 pandemic . it be quite remarkable and not by accident that the UK economy have have one of the fast and strong recovery of any in Europe , include Germany and France , and elsewhere in the world , include Japan . I welcome the investment of over £ 20 billion a year in research and development . it be no accident that this country be decarbonise and reach our 2050 net zero carbon emission goal more than any other country in the G7 . I welcome the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill , which be announce in the King ' s Speech . yesterday evening , the New Zealand high commissioner be here in Parliament . I welcome the trans - Pacific partnership , which truly be a demonstration of global Britain and global reach post Brexit . we be an island trading nation , and that be why economic growth have to be support by a thriving british aviation sector . it have suffer hugely as a result of the pandemic but be come back extremely strongly . I be delighted that later this month , Virgin Atlantic Airways , which be headquarter in my constituency , will be fly the first ever 100 % sustainable aviation fuel fight , transatlantic from London to New York . however , we need to do more to support the sustainable aviation fuel industry , which have the potential to create over 100 , 000 job in this country . it be well for our economic and energy security to produce SAF here in the United Kingdom than to be reliant on import it from abroad , with all the expense involve . another area in which we could boost our economic growth would be to use a Brexit freedom to introduce duty - free shopping on arrival . Most of the rest of the world do so : part of Europe that be not in the European Union have introduce duty - free shopping , include Norway and Switzerland , as have many other country around the world . it be a freedom that we should be use . it would not cost the Treasury any lose revenue , but it would onshore those sale to UK shop and create employment . turn to animal welfare issue , I very much welcome the livestock export Bill . live animal export for slaughter and fattening have not take place for a number of year , but certainly in the past , that be an extremely cruel practice that cause great distress to animal who be traffic over long distance to meet a very sad end . it be very good that that practice will come to an end in law , so that it can no long take place . that be another Brexit animal welfare benefit , and something that my late mum would have be very pleased about . many year ago , she often use to write to her local MP call for an end to live animal export . it be great that that be now be achieve . finally , a manifesto commitment that the conservative party make four year ago and that feature in most of the main party ' political manifesto , be the banning of trophy hunting import — the import of endangered species ' body part into Great Britain . in the last session , I table such a ban in the form of a private Member ' s Bill , but unfortunately that Bill be filibuster , block and eventually time out by a very small number of peer — one of they a hereditary peer — in the other place . the ban pass this elect House unanimously , have widespread public support and be a Government commitment . if the Minister want to intervene on I to say that the Government will bring forward that legislation in this session , I would be delighted . I understand that she probably do not have that brief in front of she , but hopefully the Government can confirm that they will legislate in Government time to achieve that manifesto commitment , end what be a very cruel practice , and lead the world far in animal welfare measure . it be a pleasure to speak in this King ' s Speech debate on secure economic growth ; I only wish the Government have offer we something in his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech that would turn that vision into a reality . this Conservative Government have wreck the economy , and they continue to make everyone else pay for it . they have give tax break to big bank and the oil and gas giant while the rest of we have suffer high taxis , high mortgage bill and spiral inflation . the King ' s Speech reveal a Government with absolutely no interest in tackle the cost of living crisis . there be nothing to address food price inflation , nor to support struggle household with their soar mortgage payment , and it ignore the need to protect the most vulnerable from high energy bill this winter . if there be one thing that all part of the political spectrum can agree on , it be that the UK need to grow its economy . under the Conservatives , so much of the UK ' s potential be go untapped , with anaemic growth , weak investment and fall living standard . year of stagnate growth look set to persist , with the most recent figure show that our economy have flatline , as household budget be squeeze by high interest rate . it could not be clear that the Government ' s approach have fail . unprecedented economic challenge have only be compound by a Conservative Government who have no cohesive economic strategy , and who have chop and change time after time . a perfect example be the Prime Minister ' s decision to row back on crucial green commitment — a decision that not only jeopardise our fight against climate change and keep family stick in draughty home pay high energy bill , but destroy the certainty that business need to invest in a green future . it move the goalpost , throw into question carefully craft business plan . what a colossal waste opportunity for the climate , green growth and new job , and this be yet more proof that this government do not have a plan — not for our planet or for our economy . if the UK be to keep up with our international partner , we urgently need to restore business confidence and boost investment in growth industry . at the heart of the liberal Democrat plan to achieve this be an ambitious industrial strategy , which would co - ordinate policy across key area and set strategic objective , such as supercharge green technology , create good local job and boost international trade . it would create stability , give the private sector clear investment signal and revitalise business condition by equip our workforce with the skill it need , invest in key infrastructure , encourage the adoption of digital technology and create financial market that truly work for all business . yet at every opportunity , the Government refuse to set a clear direction of travel or to implement a cohesive long - term industrial strategy , and this King ' s Speech be no different . one piece of legislation I be pleased to see be the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill , and I congratulate the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) on all her work in secure this commitment from the Government . this Bill will create a regulatory framework for rickshaw . while the intention for this legislation may be to control the unruly service that operate in central London , I believe that rickshaw could be a real game changer for those in my constituency and elsewhere who can not access active travel . this could be a particular benefit as an interim transport solution across Hammersmith bridge , which have be close to motor traffic for almost five year . I be pleased to meet the hon . member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) when she be a Minister in the Department for Transport to discuss the potential opportunity for rickshaw in my constituency . now that the Bill have finally be introduce , I would welcome a further meeting with the Department for Transport to discuss the possibility for Hammersmith bridge and the surround area to run a pilot scheme for a new licensed pedicab service . of the 21 Bills offer in this King ' s Speech , there be not a single piece of legislation to tackle the crisis face our nhs and nothing to ensure that the 7 . 8 million people on waiting list can access treatment . mental health be one of the top issue in my constituency , and I know that many of my constituent be deeply disappointed that plan to reform the Mental Health Act 1983 have seemingly be scrap . my constituent be also look to the King ' s Speech to provide a solution to the sewage crisis pollute our waterway , but it completely fail to introduce measure that would stop water company pump sewage into river and ocean , and it fail to introduce a new tough water regulator to hold water company to account . in my constituency of Richmond Park , Thames Water have become synonymous with poor - quality work and dubious environmental practice . alongside fail to attend burst water main for day and take week to repair relatively simple issue , the company be spend million on a project intend to replace water from the River Thames near Ham and Petersham with highly treat sewage in time of drought . give the company ' s history of frustrating business practice and an appalling environmental record , how be my constituent suppose to trust Thames Water to do its job ? how will the Government ensure that the agency responsible for monitor Thames Water have the power need to hold it to account ? I hope that the King , on his 75th birthday today , have receive some decent gift and be enjoy a special day , because I be afraid that his Government have nothing to offer the family and business across the UK that be cry out for change . there be no plan for economic growth , no plan to protect our natural environment and no plan to tackle the crisis face our NHS . this show a government that be out of idea and will soon be out of time . this afternoon , I think I would revert to my role as a one - woman tourist board for North Devon , home to the only cold water surf reserve in the world and the UK ' s only world surf reserve . with stunning beach alongside beautiful countryside and magnificent moor , there really be something for everyone who want to get a bit of the great outdoors . hospitality in North Devon contribute over a quarter of a billion pound to the economy . indeed , our local economy be hugely reliant on our tourism and hospitality sector . the pandemic see a surge in people enjoy a staycation and visit previously unseen part of the UK . however , this year have see a 20 % drop in visitor number , in part as these visitor head to overseas destination again , but the sector be also struggle to recruit staff , with many venue open for only part of the week , unfortunately drive in part by the huge surge in short - term holiday let alongside a rush of second home owner . I have two plea to the Treasury : to keep the business rate discount , as swathe of hospitality business be set to close their door this January if discount be reduce , and to reverse the osborne tax reform and level the tax playing field between long term and short - term rental , to help resolve some of our housing and , hence , staffing challenge . during an economic downturn , we all know that eat and drink out be one of the first thing to go , so I say to those of we in North Devon and beyond : let we support our local pub and restaurant this winter . but I fear that there be more at play . I know from speak to beach manager and surf school that far too many people visit our beautiful beach be fearful of the sea , despite eight of the 11 bathing beach in North Devon have excellent water quality and be among the clean beach in the world . I know that that phrase make opposition councillor rush home to write complaint about I to the local paper , but it be true . the so - call " sewage scandal " so love by opposition party be not what be happen to North Devon ' s beach . yes , when it rain , a lot of the storm overflow run — they be mostly rainwater — but less than 1 % of the water pollution in North Devon come from human sewage . these overflow have run for more than a century ; we only know about this now because they be monitor . in North Devon , much work have already be do to hold water far up the catchment and to reduce the impact of heavy rain , as well as instal extra storage capacity to reduce the frequency of storm discharge . yes , there be more to do , but it be vital to those business along the coast , and everyone who want to enjoy our stunning beach , to recognise that North Devon ' s beach have already undergo huge improvement , and the water quality be significantly well than it be 20 year ago . indeed , even Surfers Against Sewage , whose app generate more content in my inbox than anything else , concede in write to I this month : " with regard to the beach in your constituency , we totally agree that huge improvement have be make to water quality there " . yes , there will always be more to do , but I wish the opposition party would not talk down North Devon . Lib Dems call for sewage to be tackle in the King ' s Speech . they clearly fail to turn up , as they so often do , when we pass the Environment Act 2021 , which be the reason we be monitor and know where the real problem be . Anti - business rhetoric from Lib Dems be so damaging in a constituency such as mine . a Lib Dem council run our big town , Barnstaple , which have a very busy high street , for a whole host of reason , not least the great range of fabulous independent retailer alongside big brand name . but it be be hold back because the council have not prioritise reopen the bus station . I have have complaint for over a year about the lack of toilet facility and shelter . rural bus journey into town be long . the council be pay by bus company to run the station , but it choose to spend that money on business rate rather than on provide the commercial service that traveller need . I know that the plan be to sell it to the town council and open a community centre , which be very lovely , but there be a local coffee shop owner who be interested in open a caf é . why can not we do something more commercial ? our hospitality sector and , indeed , virtually every business I visit , as well as all our public service , can not recruit staff because there be nowhere to live for working - age family . I attribute that to the failing of the Lib Dem - run council to get to grip with planning . the council officer staff work flat out to deliver the plan that be put together , but where be the Lib Dem vision for Barnstaple to thrive and improve its economic output ? where be the affordable home that we so desperately need ? yes , Government money be come to help redevelop the high street and rebuild the hospital and its vital staff accommodation , but more commercial thinking be need at a local level . our Lib Dem council leader advise the BBC that I be electioneer when I suggest reopen the bus station . fortunately , the council staff at the town council recognise the need for a bus station , as do everyone else I talk to . we need our business to thrive . we need to support they and provide the right associate facility for shopper to make long journey into town , take advantage of the Government ' s £ 2 bus fare , which be a huge saving for long rural journey . while I work locally to help resolve some of these matter , I very much hope that more people will contribute to North Devon ' s local economic growth . if they have not book their next staycation , I can highly recommend my beautiful constituency . North Devon be a jewel in our country ' s tourism crown , and this Conservative Government will continue to support it , not talk it down . it be an honour and a privilege to represent the people of Newcastle upon Tyne Central . it be the city I grow up in and , quite simply , the good place in the world . my question in this King ' s Speech debate be : why be the Government let Newcastle down ? replace the woman actually elect to lead his party , the Prime Minister promise to get the economy grow , but the IMF now forecast that our country will have the low growth in the G7 next year , yet taxis be at their high rate since 1949 . what be my constituent pay for ? it be not a well health service , well school or safe street ; we be pay for Tory failure . this King ' s Speech do nothing to change that . I suppose it should not be surprising that an old Harrovian fail Prime Minister think the answer be an old Etonian fail Prime Minister , but it be not . that Tory failure will continue in my constituency . I see it on the doorstep , at my surgery and on our street , with young people try to get on the housing ladder , but hold back by Tory Britain ' s systemic failure to build . we have business contend with inflation , as well as the scourge of late payment . we have pensioner choose between heating and eat . Less than half of child in England see a dentist in the past year . we have supermarket security tag on half a pound of butter . some 42 % of child in my constituency be grow up in poverty , 17 % of household be in fuel poverty and almost one fifth of adult in Newcastle be estimate to be in problematic debt . it be little wonder that this year , the citizen advice bureau in Newcastle be on course to help more people with crisis support , food bank referral and charitable support than in any other year on record . behind each statistic , there be a live family . one example from Newcastle City Council ' s cost of live helpline be of an adult with two child . the parent have not eat anything for three day , save food so that the kid can eat . there be no gas and no electricity . they be go to warm place in the city to spend the day and wrap up in multiple layer at night . that be impact on the mental health of everyone in the family . this be Newcastle in 2023 under the Tories . this be the human cost of Tory economic chaos . I be immensely proud of our local food bank such as West End food bank , Newcastle United supporter trust food bank and Kenton food bank . I be proud of the work of our council , and I be proud of the work of all the charity help Geordies to survive , but it should not have to be this way . Newcastle ' s wonderful industrial heritage inspire I to go into engineering . whether it be renewable energy , life science , start - up or innovative manufacturing , Newcastle have exciting prospect for the industry of the future and a green industrial manufacturing future . in our long - stand area of strength , such as our world - renowne hospitality sector , which add more than £ 300 million of GVA each year in my constituency , I can see enormous potential for growth , help by labour ' s plan on business rate , energy market and the planning system . labour have a plan to make people across the whole country well off by grow the economy , boost wage and bring down bill . our industrial strategy would bring together our excellent university , skilled workforce and deep capital market to turbocharge growth in constituency such as mine . our planning reform would make it possible to build the infrastructure we need , and switch on great British Energy would bring down bill , create hundred of thousand of high - pay job and put the UK on course towards energy independence . the record speak for itself . People in Newcastle upon Tyne Central would be well off with Labour . under the Tories , disposable income be forecast to grow by just £ 42 between 2010 and 2025 . under Labour , it grow by £ 11 , 000 per person . the Tories low - growth , high - tax economy have mean hardship and setback for my constituent . we need a Labour Government and a Labour King ' s Speech to restore pride and purpose to our country and to give Newcastle upon Tyne Central and the whole country our future back . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) as we debate long - term economic growth in all part of the United Kingdom . I can not help but address a sentiment that have long linger in the heart of many in north - east Wales and my constituency : it often feel as though we be a bit invisible and forget by both Westminster and Cardiff Bay , and as a constituency we long for our voice to be hear and our potential to be unleash . it be essential that both the UK and Welsh government acknowledge the challenge face by region like our and respond with tailor policy and investment . we need infrastructure development , improve access to education and skill training , and target support for local business and industry . only through those measure can we unlock the true potential of the region that have be overlook for far too long . across my home county of Flintshire , resident in all town and village see investment from the Welsh Government go into south Wales , they watch the news and see the UK Government invest in the north - east of England , and they yell at their tv screen , " what about the north - east of Wales ? " we must strive for a future not where prosperity be confine to a select few , or to constituency where government of whatever colour want to shore up support with investment , but where instead prosperity flow to every corner of the country , empower individual , family and community to thrive . with that in mind , I will first touch on the exciting opportunity that lie within the heart of region : the Flintshire and Wrexham investment zone bid . this collaborative endeavour hold immense importance and significance to both area as they join force to unlock their true potential and pave the way for a bright future . not only do the local authority ' collaborative working call for praise ; the manner in which the bid be be spearhead by local industry and partnership , especially the fabulous Joanna Swash from Moneypenny in Wrexham , who be chair the bid , show exactly what can be achieve when framework be put in place that business can take advantage of . the impact of the investment zone bid may be transformative to the region , not only by generate direct employment but by create a ripple effect , create opportunity , foster entrepreneurship and drive economic growth in industry and supply chain across the region . we should embrace the bid , which I support wholeheartedly , as the zone will mean that we can all witness the remarkable transformation that await both Flintshire and Wrexham . secondly , devolution be hold back Wales . every week — we have hear it several time today — opposition member shout thing like , " you ' ve have 13 year and it ' s just get bad . " I politely ask they to reflect on how Labour have be in power in Wales for 26 year and outcome be bad in almost every measurable way . in 1997 , average income in Wales and Scotland be almost identical ; in 2023 , Wales find itself with income 20 % low than our northern british friend . it have become clear for a multitude of reason that power must be take back into hand of the UK Government , and I shall table a Bill to allow a referendum to take place to get rid of devolution in Wales as soon the parliamentary schedule allow . return power to Westminster do not mean abandon the unique identity and cultural heritage of Wales ; on the contrary , it would allow for a more cohesive approach to governance , with decision make in the good interest of all citizen in mind , rather than just those south of Welshpool . in fact , when that be put to the First Minister of Wales at the Welsh Affairs Committee recently , he do not even try to deny that that be happen . we must get back to focus on outcome rather than process . it do not matter where decision be make or who make they ; what matter be that they be the right one . People currently trundle to work at 20 mph in Wales down road that be full of hole and crumble because the Welsh Government will not repair they or build any new one know that it be the outcome that matter , not the process . devolution in Wales have be a resounding failure . the Welsh Government have prove incapable of deliver on its promise , leave our nation lag behind in critical area . it be time to recognise the shortcoming of devolution and take the necessary step to rectify the situation for the good of everyone in Wales . the core principle of conservatism call for reduce taxation , remove regulatory burden , increase empowerment , increase entrepreneurship and opportunity , and community collaboration . it be time to shift our focus towards empower individual , restore personal responsibility and minimise state interference in people ' s life . that include remove superfluous level of government that add nothing to the life of the people we be here to serve . the way this Government run the economy do not work for the vast majority of people who live in Scotland or for those across the UK . it be frankly a disgrace that so many of my constituent , who live in the energy - rich country of Scotland , can not afford to pay their energy bill . let there be no doubt about it : the fault lie at the door of the UK Government . in Scotland and across the UK record number of people be struggle to afford food , energy and housing , yet there be a glaring omission of any tangible policy to help struggle household in the King ' s Speech . People in Scotland have so far be cushion from the full impact of Westminster policy by Scottish Government action , but no amount of Scottish Government action can fully protect people in Scotland from regressive Westminster policy . macroeconomic power and the real power to transform our society still lie in Westminster . the Scottish Parliament be only a devolved Parliament ; it do not have the power to truly transform Scotland ' s economy and society . that would come only with independence , and that be why I support independence . I be here to scrutinise this government . climate change and the cost of living crisis be the two big challenge we face in Scotland and across the UK . the failure to include any meaningful action to tackle they in the King ' s Speech be a gross dereliction of duty . with vision and a green new deal , this Government could tackle both the climate and the cost of live crisis and transform the way our economy work to benefit all our constituent . but they have neither the desire nor the inclination to do so . we have hear much about oil licence , but oil from the Rosebank oilfield will not increase energy security for the UK , nor will it lower energy bill for my constituent . it will be sell on the international market and we will have to buy it at the same price as everyone else . it will make Equinor and Ithaca a lot of money , but UK taxpayer will pay for it . as Jess Ralston from the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit say , it be clear that this Prime Minister would rather give tax break to oil company than low energy bill . taxpayer across the UK will fork out around £ 4 billion to the developer of the oilfield — money that could have be use to insulate million of home , many of which be set to be colder and poorer this winter . the UK Government do not even attach any net zero carbon condition to the new oilfield . I wonder whether they plan to do so for the promise future licensing . the UK Government ' s new - find enthusiasm for drill oil and gas in the North sea tell we that scottish voter be lie to during the 2014 independence referendum , when Unionists from both the Conservative and the Labour party say that the oil in the North sea be about to run out . why should people in Scotland trust anything either of they say ever again ? while the UK Government continue to sell off the energy in the North sea to the high bidder , there be no meaningful plan for the much - promise just transition . that be why Scotland — and , indeed , the UK — need a green new deal . that phrase be first coin in the United States , and the Biden Administration have go some way to put a green new deal into action , with an industrial strategy that involve the world ' s most generous package of climate incentive , under the Inflation Reduction Act . in Scotland , the Common Weal policy think - tank have produce some excellent work on what a green new deal would look like for my country . during the pandemic it produce a blueprint for a comprehensive green new deal for Scotland , which would involve a process of public planning , organise and implement by public body and pay for out of the public purse . it would be a whole new scheme for Scotland ' s energy , agriculture and housing , with huge benefit of employment , prosperity and skill . it be a plan not just for our environment but for our economy and society . a green new deal might work by tackle the problem of the cold , draughty home in which many of our constituent live . we need to insulate and retrofit they , and we could do that if we supercharge our construction industry . that could be combine with a programme of transformative land reform to allow for reforest to produce the wood need for construction work . reforestation do properly would also assist carbon capture and expand biodiversity . once building be properly insulate , they could be heat by district heating system provide by a combination of solar , thermal and geothermal system . we could also use inter - seasonal heat storage to store heat from the summer for use in winter . all of that cost less and could feed into the grid much more quickly than new nuclear power . it would be a huge engineering feat , but other country have manage it and it could create well - pay job . the UK covid inquiry have hear evidence about how , during the pandemic , privileged Government figure could not comprehend the life of the people for whom they be make decision . the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and the Chancellor be all rich man . how can they possibly understand the life of the people I meet week in , week out at my constituency surgery who be struggle to pay for basic necessity ? we will not get sustainable economic growth for everyone until we tackle climate change , energy insecurity and the cost of living crisis . the King ' s Speech be just another miss opportunity to do that . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . the first king ' s Speech in over 70 year outline the Government ' s commitment to deliver for the british people , include the people of Stoke - on - Trent . we have a government focus on deliver for the whole country and city like Stoke - on - Trent thank to level up and , of course , thank to Brexit . I be glad that the topic of the debate today reflect that understanding . those beyond London must benefit from growth and we must no long be leave behind . after decade of decline under Labour , Stoke - on - Trent ' s fortune have revive . our iconic industry , ceramic , give our city its sense of place as the Potteries and our sense of purpose as a local centre of world - class manufacturing for the global market . provide that free trade be rule base , particularly against outrageous dumping , our ceramics industry have much to gain from the trade Bill . that include manufacturer of advanced technical and industrial ceramic upon which our future industry depend . we need to help our fantastic business in north Staffordshire to trade right around the world more of the amazing product that we produce . it be also vital that we far support energy - intensive sector , which provide important skilled job . measure to address energy security be welcome , but further support be need . alongside a number of colleague , I have recently write to the Chancellor to express the importance of support the ceramics sector with energy cost and not apply too rigid net zero policy when technology be yet to offer viable alternative . if we do not get this right , it risk offshore an industry to country that have a far bad environmental and human right record . Digital industry be also increasingly important in Stoke - on - Trent , as we emerge as a lead hub for gaming . indeed , our industrial heritage building be be repurpose for game industry disruptor , who appreciate , and feed creatively from , those building in all their quirky and authentic glory . accord to Ofcom , gigabit full fibre connectivity in Stoke - on - Trent enable download that be 15 time fast and upload that be 70 time fast than the UK ' s average , so I welcome the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill , which will safeguard small and disruptor firm from any egregious behaviour by big player . the Government have be extremely generous in provide investment through the transform city fund , level - up fund , heritage action zone and more . our town centre and high street , however , need further investment and it remain disappointing that Stoke - on - Trent have miss out previously on future high street funding , town deal funding and the late round of funding for town , which do not include a single town in the whole of Staffordshire . I encourage the Government to do more to help our high street across north Staffordshire with planning reform and , of course , investment . More funding be always welcome , but we also need the city council , Network Rail and other to get on with actually deliver thing . it be concern that the Labour council have already revert to type , roll back on level - up scheme , lack entirely the ambitious leadership our city need . we also see a lack of ambition when it come to our local public transport . yes , we need to improve bus service , and we be deliver that through bus service improvement funding , but rail improvement be also vital to our city , and should not be flippantly dismiss as we have see Labour do locally . only rail can provide a rapid alternative to car , reduce road congestion and improve air quality for all . fortunately , the Government have have the wisdom to see that phase 2 of HS2 fail to deliver good value . for Staffordshire , it would have mean all the pain with no gain . the £ 36 billion release be now available for local scheme that will make a real difference . the reopening of Meir station and the Stoke to Leek line — include a station at Fenton Manor — must now be fast - track and deliver . Meir have some of the bad transport deprivation in the country . by bus it can take up to an hour to reach the university , the college and the main station . reopen Meir station will put those destination reliably within 10 minute by rail , and that will level up many more life chance locally than hs2 could ever achieve . we also need to make rapid progress with lift at Longton station , and develop plan for a station to serve Trentham . level up our city ' s transport infrastructure so that it be back where it should be be the sure way of level up its potential as a place to live , work and visit . the inclusion in the King ' s Speech of a draft rail reform Bill be welcome , not least because great British Railways will be base in Derby , and I suspect that nothing will increase the chance of improve service on the Crewe - Derby - Nottingham line through Stoke - on - Trent quite as much as have gbr on it . we particularly need to increase the frequency of train on that line to two an hour . for too long , east - west rail link like this have be dismiss . however , I also look forward to investment in the local element of the national road infrastructure work . investment in junction 15 of the M6 and the A50 / a500 corridor , for instance , be long overdue . the foundation for our success as a grow city in a grow national economy will lie in ensure that it be a safe place to be : safe from crime and antisocial behaviour , safe from the scourge of monkey dust , and safe from the most heinous criminal offender . I therefore welcome the Criminal Justice Bill , the Victims and Prisoners Bill and the terrorism Bill for the part that they will play in keep we safe . it be a pleasure to speak in today ' s debate on the King ' s Speech . I believe that his Majesty be visit a food poverty project today . it be marvellous to see our monarch and Head of State take more interest in food poverty than our Government . it be notable that the King ' s Speech fall during UK Parliament Week . last week I meet many of the uniformed youth organisation , and many child from school across my constituency , who have numerous question to ask I about the King ' s Speech and the process that we have here in Parliament . one of they ask I how a man in a gold hat could sit on a gold chair and talk seriously about a cost of live crisis — but that , I think , might not be the spirit in which to enter this debate , so instead I will raise some issue about democracy , because I do not think we talk enough about it in this democratically elect Chamber . UK Parliament Week should have give we an opportunity to talk seriously about democracy , and about the need to ensure that the public feel they have a say in what we do in this place . one of the great way in which we do that be through the public petition system . as Chair of the Petitions Committee , I feel that I must raise the fact that action have be promise in the King ' s Speech on two public petition that gain huge support across the House , but that action be very much missing . the first , which ask for pet theft to be make a specific offence , have widespread support in the House but huge support among the public , many of whom see pet as very much a member of the family . give that we be a nation of animal lover , I know a Bill on the subject would also have huge support in the House , and I think it a cry shame that it be miss from the King ' s Speech . the other petition concern the banning of conversion therapy . it be a horrible thing and I think the word " therapy " be very misleading . the petition have cross - party support and have receive a huge amount of support from member of the public when there have be e - petition on the subject . I ask the Government to think again about find time to legislate for change that have cros - party support and , more importantly , huge public support . there be nothing in the King ' s Speech about housing and housing shortage . I have be meet housing adviser in my own constituency , and I know , for instance , that housing allowance continue not to rise with cost have cause an enormous increase in the already rise number of case of homelessness . this use not to be a problem in my part of Lancashire , but we be see a vast number of family be make homeless by section 21 no fault eviction and rent rise at a record rate . the only thing I can see come from this Government on housing be allow landlord to do a net zero u - turn to keep energy - efficient home there for tenant , but all the while we have see a 50 % rise in the cost to local authority of address thing such as homelessness . on transport , Network North be all promise , but we have already be promise an awful lot in the north and it have fail to be deliver . be this go to be yet another broken promise after so many broken transport promise ? we know that 85 % of the announcement so far have be reannouncement . what about rural bus service ? my constituent in village such as Forton , Scorton and Winmarleigh desperately need access to public transport , but they remain cut off . there be nothing in the King ' s Speech about active travel , walk or cycling . as someone who be incredibly concerned about air quality in the village of Galgate and on the one - way system in Lancaster city centre , I know that we need to encourage active travel but in a way that be safe for public health as well . I have the pleasure of visit , with the Canal & River Trust , a stretch of the Lancaster canal that be desperately in need of renovation , and the Government ' s cut to the trust will have a hugely detrimental impact not only in my constituency but across our canal network . when one in seven people in England be await NHS treatment and childcare be unaffordable , it seem to I that Government be go about thing a bit back to front with their announcement on work and pension . they be do nothing to tackle the root cause of people be out of work . it be clear that the country need change , but it be not be offer change by this tired and out - of - idea Government . only a Labour Government will bring about the change that my constituent in Lancaster and Fleetwood need . I represent two university , and I recently conduct a survey among student about the cost of living crisis . student be acutely affect by the cost of living crisis , and they be often unable to work the hour they need to work to meet the shortfall in their rent . I would like to see something from the Government to address the student cost of living crisis . also , my rural constituent struggle to access reliable and fast broadband , but there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to address their need . an issue that be very close to my heart be redress for those who have be victim of sodium valproate , which harm countless number of child who be now grow - up adult with huge need and disability . the woman affect be lie to by medical professional . they continue with their pregnancy while be prescribe drug that harm their unborn baby . it be important that we give redress to the victim of a scandal that have span decade and generation . sodium valproate continue to be prescribe today , and for some woman it will be the only medication that will control their epilepsy , but where it be not , we must go far and fast to ensure that they can transition to other medication that do not have a harmful effect on their unborn child . I urge those on the Treasury Bench to hear my call as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for valproate and other anti - epileptic drug in pregnancy , and to ensure that redress be give to the family who need it . it be imperative that we secure high , sustain economic growth right across the UK . some welcome policy be already be implement and there be some good initiative in the King ' s Speech , although we face enormous challenge . the focus of my comment will be on coastal community and on East Anglia . I suggest that to deliver endure economic growth , we need to address six issue . first , there be the cost of living crisis . Covid have a long and vicious tail , the cost of living crisis be still very much with we and this winter be likely to be very tough for many people . the household support grant have be successful and must continue , and other measure such as an increase in the local housing allowance must be give full consideration . welfare reform must provide a clear and support pathway for those who be some distance from the workplace . secondly , we must build more house , particularly for social rent . the vehicle of delivery be primarily the housing association , many of which be currently face significant challenge , and Homes England . the recent announcement of funding to redevelop the former Sanyo site in Lowestoft be particularly welcome . thirdly , in coastal Britain , in place such as Lowestoft , there be exciting new job emerge in the renewable sector . last week ' s announcement of funding for local skill improvement plan , include for Norfolk and Suffolk , be welcome , but we need to ensure that trainer and college such as East Coast College in Lowestoft receive realistic revenue funding settlement . progress have be make in recent year , but further education still receive a raw deal . fourthly , investment in infrastructure right across the UK be vital — in Lowestoft , construction of the Gull Wing bridge be well advanced — and there now need to be an emphasis on improve regional connectivity , whether road , rail or the digital highway . around the UK , to encourage investment and to protect home , coastal community must be make secure from the more prevalent extreme weather condition we be now experience . with an eye to the opportunity arise from offshore energy and sustainable fishing , there must be fiscal incentive to encourage investment in port infrastructure . fifthly , net zero must be see as an opportunity to revitalise coastal community all around the UK . I can understand , and I support , the rationale for the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , but it must be part of a long - term strategy up to 2050 and beyond , to maximise private sector investment . energy policy must be set in a 30 - year , not a five - year , framework . sixthly and finally , we need to revitalise our town , which for century have be hub of economic activity all around the UK . town deal , of which Lowestoft be a recipient , be welcome , as be the recently announce long - term plan for town , but those initiative can provide financial support for only a limited number of centre , and we need to put in place a growth framework for all town that promote their revitalisation and ensure they remain honeypot for set up sme . that framework could include make it easy to set up banking hub — at present , there be a very high bar to set they up — and continue the reform of business rate . we make a start in the Non - Domestic Rating Act 2023 , which receive Royal Assent last month , but it be only a timid move towards get the business rate multiplier back down to between 30p and 35p in the pound . that be need to ensure that business can plan with some certainty , rather than have to wait each year for the cliff edge of whether the Chancellor will extend business rate relief . we should also consider the zero - rating of vat for redevelopment in and around our town centre . town centre across the UK have an awful lot of heritage that , properly realise and embrace , could help to promote they and get they back to be magnet and catalyst for economic growth . it be a pleasure to follow the balanced and thoughtful speech by the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) . secure high , sustain economic growth in every part of the country be an ambition we should all have in this House . the challenge lie in how we go about achieve that ambition . the Government ' s plan just be not work . at the start of the year , the Prime Minister and Chancellor promise to get the economy grow ; instead growth be flatline , as the shadow Chancellor mention . the Bank of England have downgrade its economic forecast and the International Monetary Fund forecast that the UK will have the low growth in the G7 next year . labour do have a plan : one that will grow the economy and get Britain build again . we need fast approval of critical infrastructure , we need investment in the industry of the future , we need to get more people own their own home and we must raise living standard . in my constituency , we have oven - ready scheme that would help achieve our ambition — scheme would unlock the delivery of more than 3 , 000 home , enable the development of world - class health and care research facility , and create thousand of job and opportunity across growth sector . the Government be aware of those scheme , and should and could have support Manchester and Trafford to deliver they . the two town centre in my constituency , Wythenshawe and Sale , submit bid to the last round of the levelling - up fund . in Wythenshawe town centre , Manchester City Council have invest £ 20 million in plan to provide a once - in - a - generation programme of regeneration , include more than 1 , 600 new home — it should not be this difficult . those home will breathe new life , job and vital economic activity into the town centre . in Sale town centre , in addition to the successful regeneration of Stanley Square by Altered / Space , Trafford Council have buy and be demolish Sale magistrate court in order to build dozen of new and affordable home on the site . it have regeneration plan for other location in the town centre , include the leisure facility and the public realm . however , both bid to the levelling - up fund — for Wythenshawe and for Sale — be reject by the Government . we have an approve masterplan for Wythenshawe Hospital in my constituency , which will see the transformation of the increasingly out - of - date hospital campus into a state - of - the - art health village , with affordable housing for nurse and an aparthotel . it will also create world - class research facility in the health and care sector , a sustainable campus that deliver a commitment to be net zero by 2038 , and other complementary use , such as hotel , conferencing , training and retail . all of that will be do while deliver inclusive growth , which will derive maximum benefit through local job creation and employment and training opportunity , ensure that it be local people who see the benefit , in addition to those in the region . the delivery model propose for the development of Wythenshawe Hospital be a financially drive , phase construction approach , use blended funding . that funding solution could leverage the many commercial , health and social - relate investment opportunity afford by the site ' s prime location , while support the requirement of reduced level of NHS capital . however , to realise this opportunity , Government and Treasury support be need to unlock a technical solution to the current NHS capital regime . it be now more than 18 month since the approval of the masterplan and we have see zero progress from this Government on a workable solution , although I be grateful to Lord Markham for engage with I and with Homes England on this issue . this be not get Britain building ; it be block Britain build and flatline our economic growth . my area also have the Airport City masterplan . Manchester airport in my constituency be the large UK airport outside London , and it provide international and domestic passenger and freight connectivity for the whole of northern Britain . I welcome the Government ' s pledge in the King ' s Speech to begin to look at consumer protection and the consumer experience in our airline industry . the current transformation plan at my local airport will support 50 million passenger by 2030 . there be still much to do ; surface transport , the fabric of the estate and active travel all need to be address . the plan be set to deliver up to 5 million square foot and 16 , 000 job , with company such as the Hut Group , Amazon and DHL already work on site . Wythenshawe and Sale East have a plan to get Britain building and to grow our economy . we have a world - class airport , an Airport City enterprise zone , the Wythenshawe Hospital masterplan and plan for the development of Wythenshawe and Sale town centre . this be the Prime Minister ' s first King ' s Speech , yet he have nothing to say on housing and it include more division and more of the same . what be need to deliver the economic growth our country need be change . Change be the question at the next election and the answer be Labour . a Labour Government will offer a decade of national renewal and replace the 13 year of national decline that we have have . I welcome the emphasis in the King ' s Speech on improve the life chance of young people through the provision of academic and technical education , which be key to secure high and sustain economic growth in every part of the country , include beautiful Hastings and Rye . ensure that young people have the knowledge and skill to succeed be especially important in Hastings and Rye — a coastal community that , like many other , be struggle with high level of educational and vocational deprivation , result in a local workforce whose skill do not adequately meet the local need , especially in our wonderful engineering and manufacturing business , such as Focus SB , Technoturn , General Dynamics , Marshall - Tufflex and Torr Scientific , to name but a few . academic education be not the only path for our young people and it be right to have equal focus and funding for technical and vocational skill . skill be key to economic growth . they be a form of currency in the work world . in today ' s ever - change job market , employer be often more interested in hire employee with a specific skillset rather than those who simply have a university degree . therefore , the focus on apprenticeship be fantastic , but in coastal community such as Hastings , these must centre on young people and sme . we have an increase number of neet — those not in education , employment or training . accord to the Youth Futures Foundation , if we match the low neet rate in the OECD , which be in the Netherlands , we could see a £ 69 billion boost in GDP . a focus on revenue funding for youth service , rather than on capital funding , be need so that organisation , such as Xtrax and the Y Centre in my constituency , can do their thing . coastal community have huge potential to become a resource — a coastal powerhouse — to the UK , rather than a problem to solve . it be fantastic that Hastings receive £ 24 million in the town deal . Hastings and Rother both have level - up partnership , and Hastings will receive an additional £ 20 million over the next 10 year , but our coastal community also need a policy focus to unleash their potential and become a valuable powerhouse for the UK . our coastline and coastal community should be at the forefront of nature - base solution to climate change and renewable energy industry , include offshore wind development , green hydrogen production and wave and tidal - stream energy . the Government should be ramp up investment in those area , leverage in private investment and boost coastal community . skill must evolve with the need of the modern labour market and specific action be need to generate new skill , to encourage more diversity of employment and to meet the need of local employment opportunity . we have in Hastings and Rye , besides wonderful career opportunity in tourism and hospitality , an incredible engineering and manufacturing sector that want to grow but that need a skilled workforce . through the town fund , East Sussex Coast College have develop an important regional - scale project at its Ore campus that will improve skill provision in the new green and low - carbon technology . as regard recent announcement about education , the new advanced british standard will take the good of a - level and t - level and replace they , bring together the technical and academic route into a single qualification , which will widen the breadth of british school education . the propose qualification will require a sea change in education thinking and will rely on the Treasury fund a new qualification for thousand of young people . the standard ' s success will rely on Ministers encourage the delivery of technical subject at pre - 16 level , and the Government have cite the education model of many european country as proof that we need the standard . however , a key feature of those country ' model be technical education from the age of 13 or 14 , which have become a rarity in the UK . that be why I be an advocate of the Baker Dearing Educational Trust ' s university technical college sleeve . a decision by minister on the proposal for utc sleeve within exist secondary school be anticipate soon . Baker Dearing be aware of a significant number of large , highly regarded multi - academy trust that wish to introduce the utc sleeve model into at least one of their secondary school , because they can see the benefit of that approach in improve student engagement , attendance and outcome among certain pupil cohort , and have witness the increase interest in high - quality apprenticeship for leaver age 18 . all of that will contribute to economic growth . affordable housing be also key to economic growth for many reason , not least that child and young people can access education and employment opportunity only if they have safe and secure home . finally , improve transport connection and road , and provide fast rail and bus service , be essential for Hastings and Rye and East Sussex as a whole to encourage and facilitate economic growth . poor transport connectivity continue to blight Hastings and Rye , and it would help if Transport for the South East be make a statutory body . rise — I want to get everybody in as fairly as possible , so the time limit will be reduce to five minute after the next speaker . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on his Majesty ' s first King ' s Speech . the news last week that the UK economy flatline in the third quarter of this year be hardly a shock . it be the result of 13 year of conservative choice that have deliver low growth , skyrocket mortgage , soar price , crumble public service and house building at its low rate since the second world war . every family and business in Britain have pay the price of the Conservatives ' fail energy policy , leave Britain the bad hit country in western Europe . listen to the King ' s Speech last week , I be disappoint by the absence of a serious agenda on planning , infrastructure and growth , with no housing target or planning reform , weaken proposal for leasehold and renter ' reform , and the binning of the Government ' s manifesto promise to deliver 300 , 000 home a year . meanwhile , my constituent be leave spend nearly two fifth of their income on rent , even before tax ; live in housing that be cold , damp , mouldy and expensive to heat ; and with a Tory mortgage penalty that be estimate to take £ 2 , 600 out of the pocket of family in Birmingham , Edgbaston this year . to his credit , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities admit that the UK ' s housing system be break , but it be hard to see what this King ' s Speech do to change that . that bring I to my first point about the length of time it take for anything to get build under this Government . HS2 be a great example . the previous Labour Government complete HS1 on time and under budget . this Government have 13 year and they fail , which mean that the big infrastructure project in Europe be cancel . my constituent understand that modern public transport be not just about journey time to London , but about free up capacity and connectivity to all the other major city and town , so that people can travel for work , leisure , education and training . it can widen the horizon of their ambition and bring the whole of the region close together . what be they leave with now ? they be leave with a gape great building site in the centre of Birmingham for year to come ; all the disruption and delay of the work at Curzon Street for a high - speed rail to nowhere ; more delay to the east Birmingham metro , which , under Mayor Andy Street , will cost taxpayer £ 150 , 000 per metre of track ; and , to top it all , no alternative to Avanti on the west coast main line . have achieve the dubious distinction of have the most complaint of any operator , and consistently ranking as one of the bad perform on the entire rail network , this Government decide to hand Avanti a lucrative new contract . what do Avanti do ? it announce swathe of cut to service on the west coast main line before the ink have dry . at the root of so many of the problem beset british infrastructure and our housing crisis be the planning system . surely no one in the House would agree that the current regime be fit for purpose . when we have million lock out of the dream of home ownership , bill soar and huge national infrastructure challenge such as the race for net zero , we can not go on like this . there be currently £ 200 billion of clean energy project stick in the queue for connection to the national grid . this country once build the national grid in less time than it now take to get a connection to it . labour have set out a plan for great British Energy , which will procure the grid supply chain that Britain need and bring down bill . the Government ' s flagship King ' s Speech energy policy will not take a single penny off energy bill , and even the Energy Secretary have admit that . the UK have some of the least energy - efficient home in Europe , and Birmingham have some of the bad rate of mould and damp in the country . as we face another cold winter , with energy bill as high as they have be in live memory , my constituent be seriously worried about the toll on their finance and their health . what be in the King ' s Speech for they ? a primary school teacher contact I about a pupil in year 3 , just seven year old , who tell she that she could not sleep at night because the mould exacerbate her asthma and she could barely breathe . my constituent Agnes , a junior doctor live in privately rent accommodation riddle with mould and damp , tell I she feel helpless , as she could not end her contract and her landlord would not help . Birmingham have nearly 22 , 000 rental home with category 1 hazard such as excessive cold , mould and damp . the council be now get on with take rogue landlord to task and have launch the 3 Cities Retrofit scheme with Coventry and Wolverhampton , to help to shape the local retrofit market use their combine 116 , 000 social home — but where be the Government support they ? where be the Government ' s version of Labour ' s warm home plan to upgrade 19 million home , cut energy bill and create thousand of good job for electrician , engineer and construction worker across our country ? my constituent can not afford a government that will not grasp the difficult issue or take the long - term decision the country need . whether on house building , national infrastructure or the cost of living , this King ' s Speech do nothing to measure up to the scale of the challenge that the economy or my constituent face . labour , meanwhile , will build 1 . 5 million home over five year , with a planning reform blitz , planning passport for urban brownfield development and a devolution package to spread power out of Westminster and into community on housing , transport , energy and more . that be the ambition we need — a national mission to get Britain build again and grow our country from the grassroot , a plan to expand the country ' s productive capability and at the same time to change who benefit . do it not say it all that after 13 year of the last Labour Government , disposable income have rise by more than 40 % — that be £ 11 , 000 per person back in people ' s pocket — yet disposable income be now forecast to grow by just £ 42 between 2010 and 2025 ? last week we should have have a King ' s Speech that put work people first and a plan to get Britain build again , secure high , sustain economic growth in every part of the country . only Labour will get Britain ' s future back . it be a pleasure to speak in the first king ' s Speech debate in nearly 70 year . I look back at my comment during the last Humble Address debate , where the Government promise to make hundred of million of pound - worth of upgrade to my local hospital and construct a new specialist emergency care hospital . I be grateful that the first set of fund have now be release for that . the King ' s Speech contain a lot to be welcome , include the Media Bill , the draft rail reform Bill , the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , the Sentencing Bill and the Victims and Prisoners Bill . turn however to the theme of today ' s debate , secure high , sustain economic growth in every part of the country , I commend the Government for focus on economic growth . only with economic growth can we pay for those public service that our constituent rely on , and I want to touch on a few of those today . I will start with rail . although Carshalton and Wallington be in a London borough , it be one of the worst - connect part of Greater London and would hugely benefit from a more efficient rail network to enable people to travel not just in and out of central London , but across London as well — a fact consistently lose on the Mayor of London , as we consistently come last out of all 32 London borough for investment from this Mayor . I invite the Government to look again at the redistribution of funding from HS2 , to see whether any of that funding can be allocate to the Croydon area remodelle scheme to unlock the Brighton mainline and deliver improvement on that important link . move on , I want to talk about be safe online . many of my constituent raise with I issue include scam on social medium platform such as Meta . I look forward to see how the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill will be able to bring back consumer confidence online and provide a robust legal framework so that people can trust the service provide to they . I want to touch on other element of the King ' s Speech . I welcome the Government ' s ambition to make people ' s safety and security paramount for the next parliamentary session . that be particularly salient in Carshalton and Wallington , where the Mayor of London continue to fail to grasp the problem of violent crime in the capital . he promise a violence reduction unit , but we be yet to see any detail of that unit ' s operation or what effect it have have . we have recently see a number of attack locally , include an horrendous knife attack on the Roundshaw estate . many of my constituent be wait with bated breath to see how the Criminal Justice Bill will tackle the scourge that be knife crime and violent crime . tougher sentencing be an important step forward , but I remind those on the Treasury Front Bench of my interest in restorative justice and the part that that could play in break the cycle of reoffende . I look forward to the conclusion of the Victims and Prisoners Bill , and I hope that a right to access restorative justice service will be include in it so that we can help people to break the cycle of reoffende . of course , punishment must be part of that as well , and create a criminal offence for the possession of a bladed article with intent to cause harm will help to take more knife off our street and stop the next generation take up knife in the first place . lastly , let I touch briefly on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which will affect many of my constituent and many Londoners . I hear from many renter that there be no way of hold their landlord to account and that housing quality be not keep up to standard . the privately rent property portal will , I hope , be able to provide some security for tenant . Landlords will also benefit from the Bill , as they will be able to evict antisocial tenant more easily and dispute will be quick and easy to resolve . I hope that , as the Bill make progress through the House , we bring more harmony between landlord and tenant , and make the UK a much safe place in which to live and rent , crack down on wrongdoer while support innovator . overall , I very much welcome the measure in the King ' s Speech . I absolutely welcome the Government ' s focus on and commitment to economic growth because — to repeat what I say at the beginning of my remark — without economic growth , through back wealth creator and entrepreneur , we will not see the improvement in public service that we desperately want . I will address the crisis in the middle east and the Government ' s failure to back the grow call for a ceasefire from the UN Secretary - General and beyond , and I will speak to amendment ( b ) , table by my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) , of which I be a sponsor . already , after just five week , more than 11 , 000 people in Gaza and more than 1 , 200 Israelis have be kill . it be the duty of everyone in this House to help save life — both palestinian and israeli — to help stop the bombing , to help end the suffering , to help free the hostage , to stop the war crime , and to get the aid that be so desperately need into Gaza . that mean that we have to work for a ceasefire , and that work need to happen now — there be not a second to waste . the UN Secretary - General say that the way forward be a ceasefire , and so do the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights . in fact , the head of all major UN agency be call for a humanitarian ceasefire , so why do our Government think that they know well than the world ' s lead humanitarian agency ? President Macron have now call for a ceasefire , so France join other european nation such as Spain , Norway , Portugal , Switzerland and Ireland , as well as the UN Secretary - General , in that call . other major nation , such as Brazil , and middle eastern nation include Qatar , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and Egypt , be all call for a ceasefire . secure a negotiate ceasefire — one bind on all side — be achievable but it require a huge diplomatic effort . it be time for our Government to add their weight to the push for a ceasefire rather than dismiss out of hand a proposal that have grow international support — especially when poll show that two third of the british public want a ceasefire . I be afraid that the Government have instead seek to distort what be be demand , so let we be totally clear : a ceasefire mean that all side stop fire . that require negotiation , so our Government should be strain every sinew , use every possible diplomatic avenue , and talk to government of all persuasion — those with sway in Israel , and those with channel to Hamas , such as Qatar — to secure a negotiate ceasefire that be bind on all party , and bring an end to this crisis . of course , secure a ceasefire will not be easy , but it will not happen if government do not even bother to try . once we secure that ceasefire , instead of more bloodshed , more suffering and occupation , let we turn this moment — as difficult as it now seem — into the moment when we secure , alongside Israel , the viable palestinian state that be so need for the cause of justice . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be an honour to speak in the first king ' s Speech debate in over 70 year , and I pay tribute to his Majesty the King for the grace and dignity with which he have take up his duty and deliver his first Gracious Speech . there be much to welcome in this Gracious Speech , which set out long - term measure to safeguard our country ' s future , whether it be keep community safe through tough sentencing of prisoner , secure our energy security while maintain our net zero commitment or secure economic growth across every part of our country . I know that my constituent in Burton and Uttoxeter be really feel the effect of recent high inflation and the impact it have have on household finance . early this year , the Office for Budget Responsibility report that the economic and fiscal outlook have " brighten somewhat " , but there be still challenge . we must encourage productivity , growth and business investment , but we need the infrastructure in place to support that growth . I be very proud to be the project champion for the A50 / a500 corridor , which run through my constituency and be a key strategic link for many international business , include JCB , Toyota , Rolls - Royce , Nestl é and many more . unfortunately , this key piece of our nation ' s manufacturing infrastructure be currently cost our economy £ 8 million each year due to delay impact resident , commuter and business . at several pinch point , the corridor be slow and unreliable , with average rush hour speed of 20 mph . vital improvement need to be make to unlock the potential of this corridor , and the proposal put together by Midlands Connect offer a long - term programme of intervention to improve reliability and shorten journey time . this be about not only improve connectivity for resident and business but create job , drive innovation and reduce emission through alternative fuel and electric vehicle infrastructure . these improvement would support 30 , 000 new home and 17 , 000 new job by 2030 , as well as improve air quality make bad by chronic congestion . I be delighted when the Prime Minister announce that as part of Network North , this vital corridor will finally see the investment it need , which will mean a 30 % improvement in journey time and , as Midlands Connect find in its recent report , the potential to generate £ 12 billion for the economy . further investment in our region will allow the world - class business base here to expand , develop and unleash the potential of new green technology . new hydrogen engine be be develop , which will be use in passenger transport and heavy plant machinery of the future . I pay tribute to the work be undertake by Staffordshire County Council to promote the region as the UK ' s hydrogen valley , and I look forward to work with Ministers through this Parliament to deliver these improvement at pace and realise the benefit of economic growth for my constituent and those who live and work in the area . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . " thin " , " empty " , " just depress " , " lose the will to lead " and " nothing in this for the public " . those be the report word of Tory mps describe the measure or lack of measure in the King ' s Speech . other be pleased , as the thin legislative programme give the optimist more time to campaign in their constituency ahead of a general election and the realist more time to look for a new job . the PM claim he be take difficult decision , but it be the people in this country who be make the difficult decision every single day , as they make sacrifice and grapple with a cost of living crisis make in Downing Street . figure release yesterday show that not only have poverty rise in the UK but that in 2022 , nearly 4 million people experience destitution , and thousand of baby and toddler be be admit to hospital with lung condition believe to be from live in damp and mouldy home . despite this , there be absolutely nothing in the King ' s Speech to help those family . not that long ago , the United Nations special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human right visit the UK and find that conservative Governments have inflict " great misery " through " punitive , mean - spirited , and often callous " austerity policy drive by a political desire to undertake " social re - engineering " , rather than by economic necessity . this month , his successor reiterate those concern , state that UK policy continue to inflict misery . even in a pandemic , the Government could not prioritise child . first , we have the chaotic voucher scheme . then Tory mp vote to withdraw support for free school meal . the holiday activity and food programme be hard fight for from 2017 onwards , but it be not until 2021 that the Government decide to roll it out . my fully cost School Breakfast Bill would have see nearly 2 million child start the day with full stomach ; instead , the Government introduce a scheme that provide support to only 2 , 500 out of the 8 , 700 school they identify as eligible . my cost - neutral Healthy Start Scheme ( take - up ) ( no . 2 ) Bill would ensure that eligible family automatically receive free fruit , vegetable and milk ; instead , the Government claim that financial regulation be prevent auto - enrolment , despite the payment and card operator say that it would be entirely possible if only the Government would co - operate . evidence give to the child of the north all - party parliamentary group show that child in the north be more likely to live in poverty . we hear testimony from expectant mother who have be force to have abortion because they can not afford another mouth to feed and clothe . it be estimate that 4 million child now live in poverty . in my part of the world , the north - east , we have the high rate of child poverty in the United Kingdom , at 38 % , and in South Shields that figure rise to over 42 % . it be clear that level up , just like the northern powerhouse before it , be a vacuous , empty phrase that be never intend to , and never will , do anything to improve the life chance of the child in my area . if the economy do not work for everyone and consign million of child to poverty , the Government have fail . it be time for a general election , so that my party can do as we do last time and ensure that every single child have the very good start in life . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on the first king ' s Speech for more than 70 year , particularly today on the occasion of his Majesty ' s 75th birthday , and particularly when the topic be economic growth , which go to the heart of everything we be here to do in this place . economic growth be not about statistic , percentage , and headline in the Financial Times : it be about the real impact on household , resident and business across our constituency and the whole country . I would say this , but in my constituency of Burnley and Padiham , we probably have the good set of local business anywhere in the country . they do not just stand ready to help we with our future economic growth ; they be do it already . I be think of brilliant business in Burnley , include multinational like VEKA and Safran Nacelles and big bakery like Warburtons and Cherrytree . in Padiham , we have business like LP Technology , which be expand at a rapid pace , and so many more . that be what we do in Burnley and Padiham : we make thing and we export they . that be the first thing about the King ' s Speech that I want to touch on . since the 2019 general election , we have pass some exciting legislation and sign some exciting trade deal with country include Australia and New Zealand . I be privileged to sit on the Bill Committee during the passage of the Trade Act 2021 , in which we roll over a whole swathe of trade deal from our membership of the EU . it be very exciting that we be now look at those same trade deal and see where we can go far , strengthen our relationship with fast - grow country . that be exactly what the new legislation for CPTPP will do . growth in country like Vietnam and Canada be fast than almost anywhere else in the world ; those be the country where our business can seize opportunity . LP Technology — one of the business in Padiham that I just mention — be go to country like Australia and sign massive business deal . that be only possible because of the amazing work of our trade negotiator and the team in the Department for Business and Trade . the more of that we can do , the well . economic growth be centre in our community , and that be why I be delighted to see the long - term plan for town mention in the King ' s Speech . since 2019 , we have do an incredible job in Burnley and Padiham of work with Government to secure levelling - up funding . we secure £ 20 million from levelling - up fund 1 and £ 12 million from levelling - up fund 2 , and the Prime Minister come to Burnley personally to announce that we be one of the town to get a furth £ 20 million as part of the long - term plan . we be go to use that to work with community to find the thing we need to do to secure extra economic growth . in the second town in my constituency , Padiham , we have a flood defence scheme worth almost £ 18 million that be secure the future of the town , the local economy and the resident who live there . none of that would be possible without employment , and I be delighted to hear my right hon . friend the Chancellor speak at the opening of this debate about his plan in the autumn statement next week to make progress on help people get into work . unfortunately , in Burnley we continue to have an unemployment rate that be high than the national average , and that apply to both adult and young people . we be make massive progress in tackle that issue , and it be important we tackle it because of the real impact it have on people and family . the good thing we can do to help family in Burnley be to help they get into work , and that be particularly true of household that have be out of work for some time . I hope that in the autumn statement next week we hear more from the Chancellor on the work he have be do with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on tackle long - term out - of - work household . I will end by talk about the final thing that I think make a massive difference to economic growth , even if it be a politician ' s hobby horse , and that be pothole . our road in Burnley and indeed across Lancashire need upgrading . we have brilliant logistic business in Burnley that take the product I have mention and send they around the world , but we can only do that with road and infrastructure that be fit for the 21st century . my final ask of those on the Treasury Bench be that , as we look to the autumn statement and the Budget , we continue the focus on pothole and on the infrastructure that make our country work . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Burnley ( Antony Higginbotham ) . even by the standard of this shambolic Government , this King ' s Speech be a wafer - thin effort . that might be forgivable if we be live in a country where public service be in good shape and the economy be go gangbuster , but we be not . the reality be that , after 13 year of Tory neglect , Britain be break and nothing work any more . there be an NHS waiting list of 7 million , school be literally crumble and train be unreliable , extortionately expensive and pack to the rafter . some 90 % of crime be go unsolved , with dreadful conviction rate and victim face three - year court delay , while raw sewage be be pump into our river and child poverty have triple since 2017 . this be an utterly shameful record , but it be not only our public service that the Conservatives have break . they have also take a wreck ball to our economy , with a kamikaze Budget that cost £ 30 billion , and it be work people who be pay the price , with mortgage up almost £ 3 , 000 , rent up 40 % and the weekly food shop up 11 % on last year . their approach to the economy be plain to see . low public investment have lead to the UK have the low private investment in the developed world . a sclerotic planning system and rampant nimbyism have hinder house building and stymie our wind farm development , and the abandonment of our manufacturing sector have lead to the UK be the most regionally imbalance economy in the developed world . if we be to clear up this conservative mess , we be go to need a decade of national renewal deliver by a mission - drive Labour Government . so labour ' s first two mission be to deliver the high sustained growth in the G7 and to make Britain a clean energy superpower . the crucial point here be that these two mission go hand in hand . they will be the mutually reinforcing driver of the green job revolution that Labour will deliver . just look at the opportunity in float offshore wind in my Aberavon constituency . flow be a prime example of where Wales ' s geography offer huge competitive advantage , with the potential to create 16 , 000 job , deliver energy security and low household bill . but we need central Government to match these ambition , deliver on the full potential of 20 GW of clean energy by offer a fair strike price for developer in return for ensure that the manufacture supply chain job be keep here in the UK . if we get this right , Port Talbot could become a green energy and manufacturing hub , with our steelwork make the steel for the float turbine substructure in a new plate mill , and those very turbine then provide the energy to run the Port Talbot steelwork as well as power ten of million of home across the UK . this bold , ambitious , pioneer plan can become a model for a new economy . South Wales be the cradle of the first industrial revolution , and a Labour Government in Westminster , work in close partnership with the Welsh Labour Government in Cardiff Bay , will put our proud country at the heart of the green industrial revolution . whichever way we look at it , we need to make , buy and sell more in Britain . labour know that this begin with the steel industry , with our £ 3 billion clean steel renewal commitment dwarf the Government ' s dangerously unambitious and short - sighted approach . the Conservatives be fail to understand the grow commercial opportunity that a strong british steel industry would be well position to seize , and they be fail to recognise the risk of over - reliance on other country . Decarbonisation be , of course , important , not least because consumer be increasingly demand greener product , but decarbonisation must not become a byword for deindustrialisation . it would be utterly unforgiveable if the deal that the Government have do with Tata Steel lead to the offshoring of production , good job and carbon emission to other country that use dirty steelmaking process and that do not always have Britain ' s good interest at heart . this King ' s Speech be noteworthy more for what it do not contain than for what it do . there be nothing on the cost of living crisis , nothing on the crisis in our public service , nothing to address our protract productivity crisis , and nothing to tackle the epidemic of 6 , 000 business bankruptcy that we see this summer . that be because this be a Government who have give up on govern . they just sit there desperately cling on to power for power ' s sake and argue with one another . the british people want a Government who see a problem as something to be solve , not something to be exploit . the choice be clear : five more year of the same Tory chaos or a Labour Government who will give Britain its future back . transport infrastructure and regional connectivity be key to increase both regional and national economic growth — they be the key to truly level up . yet , as be the case with actual measure to tackle the cost of living , neither the Chancellor nor , indeed , the shadow Chancellor say anything whatsoever about they in their speech early today . the Williams rail review be commission three transport Secretaries ago , in 2018 — although I do wonder yesterday if I might have to change that to four Transport Secretaries ago . it recommend the formation of great British Railways , and ever since then Secretaries of State and Rail Ministers have stand at the Dispatch Box and promise the legislation necessary to deliver GBR , which the right hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) promise would be a " rail revolution " . well , it be a very sedately pace revolution . if George Washington and co have proceed with their revolution at the same speed , there be a fair chance that they would still be use pound , shilling and penny , and happily drink tea in Boston harbour . it be ridiculously slow . when I ask in June , the Government have already spend more than £ 64 million on the great British Railways transition team . but what transition ? if there be only the promise of a draft bill in this session , that kick any action down the track until after polling day . we be tell that GBR be vital to the future of the rail network . if it be so vital , we in this place should be debate and vote on it before polling day . at least the Government manage to find room in their legislative timetable to deal with the menace of pedicab in London — a topic on which I be sure member outwith the M25 have be absolutely inundate with correspondence . the home county and area inside the M25 have , as ever , be do well from UK Government spending . stage 1 of East West Rail be project to cost £ 1 . 3 billion , crossrail £ 19 billion , Thameslink £ 7 billion and the remnant of HS2 nearly £ 50 billion . the Treasury ' s own figure show that the east midland sit at under a third of per capita transport spending compare with London , with the south - west at 35 % and the north - east at 37 % . that be not level up or secure high , sustain economic growth in every part of the country — it be leave the region of England with scrap from the table , while London get gold - plate investment each and every time . meanwhile , Scotland have a Government who actually do thing , such as rolling electrification , reopen line , trialle peak fare abolition and the full public ownership of rail service under Scottish Government control . clearly there be a lot more to do , but instead of push value for the taxpayer by gouge passenger and cut spending , ScotRail and the Scottish Government be target gain in revenue by boost usage , with the result that passenger number be up by 33 % on last year across the network , the high by a country mile of any UK rail operator . that show what ambition can mean and can deliver . it be high time that the UK Government show the same level of ambition , so that the rest of England be not leave even far behind . we have also see the UK Government publish their minimum service level regulation . it be a disgrace that we have a Government who use victorian milliner as the template for industrial relation in the 21st century , with list of the rail service that worker will be compel to operate under penalty of prosecution publish on the website . it be surely no coincidence that european country with progressive employment law , where employee be treat with respect and be social partner , have some of the well - perform economy with the high standard of living . there be simply no way to secure high sustained economic growth in every part of the country when Government policy be to treat skilled worker as chattel . to be absolutely clear , the Scottish Government will play no part in this forced labour scheme , and we will not co - operate with the UK Government on the implementation of this appalling measure in our transport network or in any other area of devolve policy . People in Scotland have have no faith in the conservative party to deliver a well economy for decade . its last election win in our country be in 1955 , and since the ' 80 it have remain a rump in scottish politic . it be the only main party not to have hold office in Holyrood — a fact unlikely to change any time soon . conservative ' defence of the Union as an engine of economic development have be threadbare for year , but ever more so as the few remain strand keep the UK aloft be be pick apart by their own action . Brexit and the cost of living crisis continue to wreak havoc on community across Scotland and the rest of these isle . job and industry be downscale and close all the time , with both main UK party commit to the insular and dogmatic " Rule , Britannia " policy so beloved of the Daily Mail . there be an opportunity for Scotland to build a well future . it be time that both UK party stop block that opportunity and respect the right of the scottish people to grasp that future and choose independence . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this King ' s Speech debate . after 13 year in power , five Prime Ministers , seven chancellor , an economic crash and a Brexit without a plan , last week we be present with a wafer - thin programme that honestly could be do by Christmas . many of the Bills carry over be water down and weaken version of their original self . one example be the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . we have to wait four year to debate the Bill . there be five month between First and Second Reading , yet the Bill go nowhere near far enough to protect renter properly , particularly from no - fault eviction . court proceeding for no - fault eviction be at a seven - year high . my borough of Enfield have be hit particularly hard by this eviction crisis , have the high number of section 21 eviction in the whole of London . it lead to a massive increase in homelessness , increase use of temporary accommodation such as hotel , a huge financial burden on local authority as they try to grapple with the cost of that accommodation , and increase fear and anxiety for family across the country . I fear that the Government know all too well the impact that these eviction be have on people , but they either do not care or can not stand up to their party . last week , we have the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , declare war on the use of tent on the street , disgracefully state that homelessness be " a lifestyle choice " . accord to the charity Crisis , the loss of private tenancy be the lead cause of homelessness . in Enfield , the risk of homelessness increase by 38 % because of section 21 notice last year . this Government have choose to delay ban section 21 eviction for four year . these be not lifestyle choice — they be hard evidence of Tory failure . these eviction be not only deeply distress to renter , cause grief and hardship , but costly to the public purse . in fact , Enfield Council face spend an additional £ 20 million on temporary accommodation this year alone — that is £ 20 million that the local authority can no long spend on public service , despite the dire need for investment and reform . that is fund it can no long spend on housing or on stuff like social care — the list go on . rent in the UK be recently report to be the high on record . far too few home be be build , mortgage rate be spiral out of control , and family in my constituency of Enfield North be pay an extra £ 350 on their mortgage every month , all thank to 13 year of economic mismanagement and the Tory party ' s mortgage bombshell . thing like work hard , buy a home and raise a family be difficult enough as it be . People expect the Government to keep the economy stable so that their family ' s future be secure , but meet monthly payment be now force tough choice , from have to cut back on the weekly shop to abandon family holiday . a food bank in my constituency recently tell I that demand this year be out of control . all those problem demand the very good from the Government , but sadly they have no plan to fix they . our economy , like our country , be cry out for change . we need a Government who be on the side of work people and who have ambition , energy and idea , but this be a tired government who have lose their goal to govern . the Prime Minister and his Government have fail my constituent and the country . the only way to deliver the change he talk about and which the country need be to call a general election . the word in the title of the debate , " economic growth in every part of the country , " feel like some kind of cruel gaslighting give the dire economic condition that too many of our constituent face . after 13 year of this Government , we have have devastating austerity , public service slash , local government decimate , the growth of privatised monopoly and the creep privatisation of everything from healthcare to our very own datum . give that track record , I do not think that anybody expect the short monarch ' s speech since 2014 to contain the seed of Britain ' s salvation . it be increasingly clear that only a change of Government will achieve that goal . therefore , in many way , my contribution be not just for the current Government but for any Government who may come to power in the near future . genuine levelling up , which many of we in this place believe in , imply that everyone and everywhere that contribute to the UK ' s prosperity should share in the bounty they help create . it be a simple principle . if we accept it , by that metric , former british caribbean island should be at the front of the queue when it come to level up . this be know internationally as reparatory justice : namely , recognition of and compensation for transatlantic chattel slavery , which be the great atrocity in the history of humankind , without parallel in its brutality , in its 400 - year length and in its profitability . at its 18th century height , slave plantation be make £ 4 billion to £ 5 billion a year in profit at 2010 price , make caribbean economy the single big source of imperial gain ever see . the recent Brattle report commission by the University of the West Indies estimate that the UK owe £ 18 . 8 trillion in compensation to caribbean island for the hundred of year of exploitation . that be not just for chattel slavery but for the continue brutal and bloody exploitation that take place after emancipation . for that emancipation , the slave owner , not the slave , be pay billion of pound of compensation , and we as a country — everyone in the Chamber — only finish pay off the debt for that in 2015 . when recently I go back to the Caribbean , I have the chance to speak to everyone from Dickon Mitchell , the Prime Minister of Grenada , through to Avinash Persaud , a key economic adviser to Mia Mottley , the Prime Minister of Barbados . I must admit that I be a bit of a stuck record . I ask why my constituent should be expect to pay reparation to the Caribbean when many of they will struggle to heat their home and feed themselves this winter . the answer be intriguing . I be tell that they should not . Arley Gill , chair of the Grenada National Reparations Commission , be very clear . he tell I that the family , corporation , bank and other institution that have exploit the Caribbean for century and continue to do so be the same one that hoard that wealth in the UK or the various british overseas territory for tax avoidance purpose . unless we in this country be prepared to tax wealth more , deal with the imperial legacy of Britain ' s network of global tax haven and challenge corporate power , whose extractive and exploitive practice have now boomerang back from empire to almost every aspect of our life here in the UK , we will never be able to fix our broken economy . by boomerang I mean housing , water , energy and transport be privatised , and health on its way . nearly every aspect of our life these past 50 year have become financialise , leave million of our constituent in poverty and debt . thus , the structural adjustment of the Caribbean become austerity and privatisation for the UK . if we in this place be to live up to our stated rhetoric of equality , fairness and justice , we need to understand that our responsibility stretch to all who have contribute to this country ' s wealth , wherever they may be . as such , let we start that process with a simple statement of acknowledgment on this country ' s prosperity : Britain do not develop the world ; the world develop Britain . I want to concentrate on the Northern Ireland economy , as this be primarily a debate on the economy . first , however , I want to touch upon the situation in the middle east , and in particular the need for a ceasefire . I utterly condemn the action of Hamas as terrorism . however , we must recognise that Israel ' s response have be disproportionate , represent collective punishment and see ongoing breach of international humanitarian law . we have all be deeply touch by the image we have see on our television , and we know that there be a massive humanitarian crisis ongoing in Gaza . hopefully , we all recognise that there be no military solution to the situation . the only way forward lie in both Israel and Palestine have freedom and security , and the reaching of a political accommodation , notably with a two - state solution . continue death and destruction achieve nothing — arguably , it make the situation even hard , because it will only compound people ' s sense of bitterness and feed extremism . it also risk wide regional escalation . a ceasefire , which must include the release of hostage and humanitarian access , require a collective international effort , as do the renew peace process that should follow any initial ceasefire . I hope I can speak with some degree of authority on peace process , give my experience in Northern Ireland . move on to the situation in Northern Ireland , our economy continue to function and business be continue to invest , but our economy be be hold back massively by the absence of a devolve executive . we need an Executive for political stability and investment in skill , infrastructure and research and development . as a former Minister for Employment and Learning in Northern Ireland , I appreciate the importance of skill . rather than further investment in those area in Northern Ireland , we be see budget cut . the impact on further and high education be mirror more widely in health , education and other public service . I want to see a restore Executive work closely with the UK Government to address Northern Ireland ' s current financial crisis through two key intervention . the first be the introduction of what be call a fiscal floor . Northern Ireland be structurally underfunde by around £ 400 million a year . a fiscal floor would need to be set at the correct level , take into account policing and justice need base on the most relevant period , 2010 to 2015 , adjust for inflation , as that be base on actual need as assess by the Government at that particular point . we have the precedent of what happen in Wales , feed by the Holtham commission . that model could be replicate with adjustment for Northern Ireland relatively quickly . we also need a transformation fund . we can not fix public service in Northern Ireland from a burn platform of cut and further cut . we need an invest - to - save programme for both public service and our economy , as part of a renew financial package . of course , we have to learn lesson from previous financial package in Northern Ireland . I say to the Government that I fully accept that there will be a need for a certain degree of conditionality around any intervention , but unless we have that financial package , we be never go to turn the situation around in Northern Ireland . we have a very particular opportunity in Northern Ireland through the presence of the Windsor framework . I welcome the Government ' s effort to secure it early this year . I be disappointed that other be fail to see the importance of that breakthrough and to return to the Executive as a consequence . without a function Executive and those key intervention in our economy , we will not be able to take full advantage of the opportunity provide by the framework , particularly in term of dual market access . finally , I will touch briefly on climate change . it be by far the deep , most far - reach challenge face the world , include we in the UK . while the Government ' s target may remain , there be a clear sense that the brake be be slam . it be a false narrative to pitch economic wellbeing against climate change . through a green new deal , we can address not just economic change but social justice , alongside climate change . I strongly suggest that the narrative need to change around a green new deal , both UK - wide and in Northern Ireland . one of the great risk we face today as a country and as a global community be the climate and ecological emergency . it be also one of the great risk to economic growth . we need to align UK law with what science tell we be require for a liveable future by pass the cross - party back climate and ecology Bill . that be why I table amendment ( e ) , which would deliver a science - lead , join - up strategy to build a greener , fair future for all and prioritise the protection of nature . the housing sector be on track to use almost 50 % of the Climate Change Committee ' s recommend carbon budget . that trajectory be unsustainable if we be to uphold our commitment under the Paris agreement and play our part in limit global warming to 1 . 5 ° . we need home fit for the future . the Government have now prioritise step up the pace of retrofitting , drive progress towards decarbonisation while provide much - need assistance to our constituent during the cost of living crisis . on planning , we be tell that England will soon have a new biodiversity net gain policy , which will mandate that any new development must leave biodiversity in a well state than before it be construct . the Oxford Nature Positive Hub have expose serious challenge that threaten the integrity of the policy ' s outcome , include the oversight , monitoring and enforcement of biodiversity improvement . under the policy , developer have three way to offset their biodiversity liability — the damage their project do to nature — but the process will be oversee by local planning department , which be often lack in capacity and expertise . we must prioritise the protection of nature . the leader ' pledge for nature be a welcome international commitment to not only halt nature loss by 2030 , but set it firmly in reverse . that be also the ambition set at COP15 last December , which I attend , and which the Government sign up to . it be the apex nature target of the climate and ecology Bill that I be proud to draw attention to via amendment ( e ) . I want to discuss Gaza , which the King refer to in his Gracious Speech . I , like many other , be at a Remembrance Sunday event at a local church . I be privileged to read Micah 4 , which state : " he will judge between many people and will settle dispute for strong nation far and wide . they will beat their sword into ploughshare and their spear into prune hook . nation will not take up sword against nation , nor will they train for war any more . everyone will sit under their own vine and under their own fig - tree " . Rev . Matt Broughton of St Giles then give the eulogy . he draw attention to the fact that the same land that be be fight over now be be fight over 3 , 000 year ago . Micah be under threat of attack and assault , but he could see the need for peace and a peaceful settlement , and the need to turn those sword into ploughshare . he also draw attention to the fact that the only settlement would be through negotiation , as we ourselves see in Northern Ireland and as the Spanish see in the basque country . although , as Matt Broughton say , now be a time of uncertainty , disharmony and fear , we need to look to the future and think about how we can recreate two state for two people . it be incumbent on we , as the UK Parliament , and on the UK Government to join the international effort that be be make . Pedro S á nchez , the spanish Prime Minister , have propose that there should be a peace conference after the conclusion of the conflict . it be important that we create an intergenerational peace for the people of Israel and the people of Palestine . this be not a goal that should be see as too lofty or too difficult . it be the only way in which we will move beyond the current conflict , and beyond the discussion we be have about the cessation of hostility or a ceasefire . it be the only way in which we will bring peace to both people . some say that there be not the partner for peace on both side , but if we be to reach this goal , the international community must make it their top priority to find those individual who exist in both Israel and Palestine , and promote and support they . in this debate we be discuss economic growth , and it be fitting that my constituency be be represent , because it have consistently deliver some of the high economic growth in the UK , largely through be the premier distribution and logistic hub for our country . however , even in North West Leicestershire I be see the prosperity for which we have work so hard be undermine by an evident lack of leadership and accountability on the Government ' s part . we need honest , immediate change . the Government ' s responsibility be to protect and serve its citizen , not to pander to the World Economic Forum , the World Health Organisation or other supranational body . we appear to be slide towards Marxism and the disruption of our traditional norm and value — our history , our religion and our institution . what we desperately need be leadership that champion truth , freedom and economic prosperity . we be grapple with skyrocket inflation , especially in food price , with a loom financial crisis , out - of - control monthly mortgage payment , and energy price that will reach new high this winter and increase fuel poverty across the country . we end up here because of fiscal profligacy with zero accountability , in addition to a decade of reckless money print by the Bank of England . let we look at a few of the most outrageous project loss that we have see . HS2 have mean ten of billion lose , while useless personal protective equipment and track and trace have lose we £ 100 billion and £ 40 billion respectively . there be the financing of the war in Ukraine , which could have be bring to peace last March , while our own people struggle to make end meet . there be the economic crash , and the stunting of economic growth because of HS2 , with 22 mile of North West Leicestershire blight for a decade . there be the decade of delay to the regeneration of Measham , my most deprived village . I be pleased that the Government have decide to reopen the Ivanhoe line between Burton - on - Trent and Leicester , but concurrent plan to terminate it at Coalville be insufficient . it need to go all the way to Leicester so that it can benefit the South Derbyshire , North West Leicestershire and Bosworth constituency . asylum seeker in hotel be cost we more than £ 10 million a day . I do not think it fair that , give that there be seven constituency in Leicestershire , 51 % of the asylum seeker have be locate in hotel in North West Leicestershire . taxis be high than they have be at any time in my life . taxis be use to modify behaviour , which be why we penally tax tobacco and alcohol , but we be penally tax work when we want economic growth . I believe the Chancellor say , " you can not borrow your way to economic growth , " but I do that many time when I be in business ; I borrow money , invest it in the business , grow the business , and pay the money back . it would appear that the Chancellor think we can tax our way to prosperity , but I do not think we will be able to do that either . we be spend £ 200 million on a covid inquiry that be not ask the right question . we need an admission from the Government and the opposition that the flawed pandemic response be the cause of many of the problem we be suffer from now . at a time when our country be in crisis and family be struggle to make end meet , why do this Government persist in press forward with their nonsensical net zero agenda ? I appreciate that the Prime Minister have announce a delay — maybe some would argue that it be a retraction — for some of the target , but it be not enough . he need to go far . the fact be that the UK account for less than 1 % of global emission , and on that basis we be voluntarily reject entire industry while at the same time communist China be allow to increase its emission by more than our total emission in every year of this decade . if we press on with net zero , it will cost £ 1 trillion or possibly £ 3 trillion — slam money on to the national debt in a way that our heir and successor will not thank we for . the debt be now completely out of control , and the global economy be on a knife edge . many be foresee a major crash or another run on the bank , and this could pave the way for programmable digital central bank currency — I hope not ; I will oppose that — and a social credit scoring system . our national debt be now £ 2 . 9 trillion . why would we trust the central banker again when they have get we into trouble twice in two decade ? we must immediately instate the effective fiscal process use in August 1914 , whereby the financial collapse be check by introduce a Treasury bond know as the Bradbury pound . this be accept and it stabilise the market at the time . it be not debt and it be not interest - bearing ; it be Treasury money . we do not need to trust the central banker ; we need to use Treasury money to solve the crisis , exactly as we do in 1914 . I will speak to amendment ( b ) , table in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) , to which I be a signatory . it be a great shame that the King ' s Speech pay little heed to the immediate need for a ceasefire in Gaza . it be over a month since the dreadful attack on israeli civilian on 7 October prompt a massive wave of retaliatory violence in Gaza . over 11 , 000 innocent Palestinians have be kill and over 25 , 000 injure . the majority of those kill and injure have be woman and child , who have long be suffer the inhumane living condition in Gaza , the large open - air prison in the world . Hamas ' s attack be contemptible and rightly condemn , but the evil commit on 7 October do not justify the disproportionate and unlawful response by Israel . the indiscriminate bombing of hospital , bakery and even refugee camp have maximise the suffering of the palestinian people and drive they out of their home . the withholding of water , food , fuel and medicine by Israel constitute collective punishment , which be prohibit under international law . Israel have fail to respond proportionately or lawfully , and it have now kill more civilian than have be kill in all world conflict over the last three year . it be no surprise that United Nations expert have express a grave concern that the people in Gaza be face imminent genocide . those expert have also make it clear that Israel ' s ally bear responsibility for the tragic situation unfold in Gaza and that without immediate and decisive action , the palestinian people face either death or complete displacement from their home . give the terrible suffering of the people of Gaza , most of the british public now support a ceasefire — a position that be not reflect by this Government . a ceasefire be crucial to stop the violence and allow vital humanitarian assistance to find its way into Gaza . it be also essential to restart a peace process that would see a secure Israel coexist with a legitimate palestinian state . however , on this issue the international community and the UK in particular have fail . illegal settler support by the israeli Government have , for year , seize land and property from Palestinians in the west bank , undermine the territorial integrity and sovereignty of any potential palestinian state . israeli force have continually attack worshipper at the al - Aqsa mosque in East Jerusalem , palestinian family and business have be force out of East Jerusalem , and the blockade of Gaza have continue unabated for many year . there be clearly element within israeli politic who have no wish or desire to see Palestinians co - exist alongside Israel , and who have use various mean to prevent this from happen . in this context , the much - need leadership of country such as our in the peace process have be absent . there be still no indication of when the UK will formally recognise the state of Palestine , despite year of promise . early today , we hear statement about a two - state solution . for a two - state solution there have to be two equal state , both of which have to be recognise . of the 193 member country of the United Nations , we be one of 55 that do not recognise Palestine . how can we talk about a two - state solution when we do not even recognise they as equal ? the palestinian people have be abandon , and now , in their time of great need , this government can not bring themselves to call for an immediate ceasefire . that be why , along with my colleague in this House , I will continue to demand a ceasefire in Gaza . when half a million people take to the street to demand a ceasefire have be label by some member as a " hate march , " we realise that humanity have fail . it be a pleasure to speak in today ' s debate , particularly as this be my first King ' s Speech since have the honour of be elect as a Member of Parliament by my constituent in Chester . as grand as the occasion be , I be disappoint by the content of the King ' s Speech . I have look for what it will mean for my constituent , especially as so many continue to face the gruelling challenge of the cost of living crisis . sadly , it offer they nothing . propose just 21 Bills , it be clear that the Government have simply run out of idea . six Bills have be carry over from the last session , and any that be mean to address important reform , such as the long - await leasehold reform — an important issue to people across the country — appear to have be water down from what be originally promise . we shall see . some promise have be completely omit , include the shameful u - turn on ban conversion therapy . that move have abandon LGBTQ + people who face this abusive practice . Change be a key theme in last week ' s speech , and I agree that the country be cry out for change . however , that change can not come about with the continuation of this Conservative Government — the same Government who crash the economy just over a year ago , plunge so many hard - work people into further uncertainty about their life and finance . the lack of ambition in the legislative programme for the next Session simply do not address the serious challenge face the country . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister promise a grow economy , and instead we be see growth flatlining , the Bank of England downgrade its economic forecast and the International Monetary Fund forecasting that the UK will have the low growth in the G7 next year . as we have hear , taxis be the high they have be for 70 year , with household pay a staggering £ 4 , 000 more in tax each year . mortgage and rent have skyrocket , with home ownership be a very distant dream for many young people . housing be the most prominent issue face my constituent in Chester , and the King ' s Speech have fail to deliver , with no sign of local housing target or the need reform of our planning system . it be clear that this Government have no plan to fix the housing emergency . the worry do not stop there . they be everywhere we look . our council , school , hospital , police and fire service be all starve of resource . local authority be face serious financial challenge . I know that Cheshire West and Chester Council be deal with an unprecedented number of child in care , with never before see level of complexity , which will impact on all aspect of the council ' s finance . it do not use to be like this and it do not have to be . Labour have a plan to make work people in all part of the country well off , by grow the economy , boost wage and bring down bill . labour have a plan to retrofit 19 million home , which present an ambitious opportunity to boost growth , cut bill and develop skill . labour would deliver by make Britain a clean energy superpower , build an NHS fit for the future , make Britain ' s street safe and break down the barrier to opportunity at every stage . that be the real change that people , not only in Chester , but up and down the country , be cry out for . the King ' s Speech be yet another lose opportunity to deal with the cost of living crisis , the climate catastrophe and the scandalous underfunding of public service in my country of Cymru , Wales , and across the UK . this government ' s priority remain tax cut for a wealthy minority of the type that crash the economy last year , which the shadow Chancellor ' s amendment today seek to prevent . as the TUC have say : " the UK be stick in a conservative doom loop " — which amount to — " low growth , terrible living standard , and repeat dose of austerity . " our distorted economy be still able to deliver million of pound to a few at the top , just so long as million at the bottom accept live on a few crumb here and there . the King ' s Speech do nothing to deal with those problem . on pay , the Government should have pledge to legislate so that they always deliver pay rise for public sector worker that at least match inflation and provide pay restoration . we must ensure that our hard worker do not receive real - term pay cut again and that their salary match real value in society . the Government must address that issue and do that in the autumn statement . on social security , we need payment to rise , but we hear that the Government plan to make new saving . they be reportedly plan to cut £ 4 billion from health - relate benefit , which will , accord to more than 100 disability organisation , plunge disabled people into poverty and could lead to unnecessary death . on energy bill , we have hear the Energy Secretary tell we the oil and gas stunt in the speech will not " necessarily bring energy bill down " . what we should be do be cut out the vast waste of shareholder dividend payment and restore energy provision to the public sector . unlike the hon . member for Delyn ( Mr Roberts ) , who speak early , I strongly believe that we need more devolution in Wales . we need a fair need funding settlement , devolution of the Crown Estate and the £ 5 billion owe to we in consequential from the HS2 England - only project — I could go on . I want to focus my final comment on public sector funding . the Welsh Government have announce in recent week that they have to find saving of £ 600 million to balance their budget and maintain health spending . that be solely down to UK austerity and a conservative economic agenda that harm our Welsh economy , Welsh public service and the living standard of Welsh people . one in four people in Wales be eat small meal or skip meal altogether . almost 3 million people in Britain be use food bank . as usual , it be the poor in society who be pay the high price , which be why I be support our local tuc in organise a hunger march later this month . community such as mine in Cynon Valley and across Rhondda Cynon Taf organise the first hunger march to London back in 1927 , and it be a sad reflection on , and indictment of , our society that we be have to do the same again in 2023 . the impact of repeat round of austerity and the extractive nature of the economy mean that there be a need and a desire to look at new economic model , at integrate community - base economic and social development . in Wales , this be be do under a vision of " Cymunedoli which translate as " communitisation " and be similar to community wealth building . Cymunedoli be an economic model that ensure that community own and manage their resource and labour , rather than be exploit for the benefit of other , as have long be the case throughout Welsh history . a fair , inclusive , prosperous and sustainable economy be create for the benefit of everyone , through generate and retain wealth within local community . the example of cymunedoli that be be pursue in Wales be successful : local investment in job , pay for local training , pay local supplier and staff , and finance recycle and retain within the local community , rather than extract . we need to see more of that . the Tory Government have spend 13 year cut service and create a cost of living crisis . that have to stop now and we need the Tories out . Diolch yn fawr . those who have participate in the debate should aim to be in the Chamber for about 6 . 30pm . we be now face the 14th year of conservative rule . in that time , the Conservatives have preside over the bad growth in gdp per head since record begin , a sustained decline in living standard and a huge housing crisis , while our public service be disintegrate . it be clear that the economic policy of the past decade have totally fail to address the big challenge face in our everyday society . we be in the midst of the bad pay crisis since the Battle of Waterloo . real income be still below level of 2010 . in fact , our entire economic system be a stagnant , economic disaster zone — as the New Economics Foundation have put it , " a stitch - up between large , distant institution and large , distant corporation . " my constituent in Ilford South feel the full force of this economic malaise every day , whether it be in the shop , navigate the ever - grow price of basic good with an ever - shrink pay packet , or perhaps most acutely in their very home , where they face ever - rise rent , crumble house and the constant threat of no - fault eviction . the private rented sector be the bad case of this — a highly deregulated mess that have enable rent to skyrocket as quality decline , with freeholder look to grab as much ground rent as possible . the English Housing Survey say that almost a quarter of occupy private rented property , amount to nearly 1 million property , fail the decent home standard . private tenant be almost three time as likely to be expose to damp and mould as social housing tenant . even if the property tenant reside in be liveable , there be always the loom threat of a section 21 no - fault eviction . since the Government first promise to end section 21 no - fault eviction , over 70 , 000 household have be evict and threaten with homelessness , and in the past few month , section 21 claim have rise by a shocking 38 % . section 21 be now a lead cause of homelessness in this country , but it can also be use as a weapon by unscrupulous landlord to quash any demand from tenant who complain about failure to meet basic standard and condition . while it be welcome to see that the Government be finally bring forward the long - await Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which will end section 21 eviction , it seem to be too little , too late and appear to be indefinitely delay . how much long do tenant in my constituency in Ilford have to live with the constant fear of a no - fault eviction hang over their head ? the Bills present in the King ' s Speech do nothing to address the cost of renting . the past year have see the big rise in rent since record begin , force private renter to fork out huge proportion of their income on living cost . Sandra , in my constituency , say to I recently : " initially , our monthly rent be at a reasonable level , but we be shock when our landlord propose a substantial rent increase of £ 450 extra per month … as law - abide citizen who diligently pay our taxis , we find ourselves in a bewildering and unjust situation . it be dishearten to see individual and family , who be once stable in their home , be push into homelessness or temporary accommodation due to these unreasonable rent increase . " this will be a familiar story to countless family across London , as many London mps will know . the average advertise rent in London be now a record £ 2 , 501 per month . record rent be a symptom of the housing crisis and a broken private rent sector . thankfully , the Mayor of London be urge the Government to act now , because London be one of the few global city without any form of rent control . we can learn from international precedent to design an effective system of rent control for London . our Labour Mayor propose two - year rent freeze , which could save average renter in London £ 3 , 374 . I hope that the Minister will consider grant the Mayor of London the power that his counterpart in Berlin , New York and Scotland have to introduce rent control . this be a fail sector that have push more and more family into disastrous temporary accommodation . when I speak to my constituent who be trap in temporary and emergency accommodation , I hear how they have be wait upwards of 10 year for a social home . as mps , we have all hear the horror story . this be a complex issue , with no silver bullet . the long - await and yet far delay Renters ( Reform ) Bill be a welcome step in the right direction , but it do not go far enough . it do nothing to tackle excessive rent increase and it fail to close loophole that will allow unscrupulous landlord to continue to exploit tenant . if this government , and indeed any future government , be serious about tackle this crisis , they must go far . they should give local leader the power to issue rent control and empower tenant with proper right and guarantee . we need more becontree estate , once home fit for hero , not Battersea power station monument with luxury flat for the super - rich . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on his Majesty ' s first King ' s Speech . the Prime Minister be right to say in his response last week that the country need change , but if the people of Portsmouth need any more evidence that this change will not come through a fifth Tory term , this King ' s Speech provide it . it contain more word than any since 2005 , yet have the few Bills since 2014 , and be a perfect symbol for the late incarnation of Conservative Government that our country be have to endure . it be a party that govern with slogan rather than action , and that promise to level up , to provide strong and stable Government , to grow our economy , and to cut NHS waiting list , but the reality be that for more than a decade now the only thing that this Government have provide be an impeccable record of over - promising and under - deliver . People in Portsmouth be face serious challenge after a decade of Conservative Government and decline , with skyrocket mortgage , rise rent , soar bill , and taxis at their high level for 70 year . it be sad but not surprising to see this week that the number of food bank parcel issue in Portsmouth by the Trussell Trust have rise by nearly 70 % over the past year . People be really struggle . this King ' s Speech could have focus on tackle these huge problem , but instead there be nothing to help people with the cost of living crisis ; nothing to tackle rise level of shoplifting , which be now top 1 , 000 incident per day ; nothing to finally stop the sewage pollution ; nothing to ensure that every child succeed and thrive ; nothing to secure the investment that our community deserve ; and nothing to address the fact that there be only one dentist and GP for every 2 , 300 people in Portsmouth . those be the priority of the people of Portsmouth , those be my priority and those will be the priority of the next Labour Government . sadly , though , at the moment we have to live with a Prime Minister who have give up on governing , who be content to carry on with the failure of the past decade , and whose idea of change be bring back a fail Prime Minister from a decade ago . with so few Bills include in the King ' s Speech , there be absolutely no excuse for some of its omission . much - need Bills on mental health , for renter and to support victim have be drop . the failure to ban so - call conversion therapy represent a complete betrayal of all LGBT + people at risk of this abhorrent treatment . we should be clear : conversion practice be abuse and it be nothing short of disgraceful that they have not be outlaw yet . where this government seek to sow division , Labour will unite the country , offer people hope around a mission to get Britain ' s future back : by get Britain build again to deliver transformational infrastructure and home for million ; by switch on green energy to create job , cut bill and boost energy security ; by get the NHS back on its foot so that everyone can access a dentist and GP when they need it ; by end the Tory sewage scandal so that our water can be clean again ; by take back our street , with 13 , 000 more police officer tackle crime ; and by break down barrier to opportunity so that young people ' s future be not define by the circumstance they be bear into . the people of Portsmouth want new idea and a plan to get our country ' s future back and to bring about the change in my city and our country that be so desperately need . this damp squib of a King ' s Speech show that that change will not come with the Tories . it be become ever clear that the Tory party be out of energy , out of idea and — hopefully , for all our sake — soon to be out of Government . I congratulate my hon . friend , the new Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) , on an excellent and important maiden speech . I hope he will continue to serve the people of Mid Bedfordshire for many year to come . I want to talk first about housing , because that be the issue on which I receive the most casework in my constituency inbox . in recent year we have see an escalation of section 21 notice , extortionate increase in private rent and a general increase in household cost . it be vital that the Conservative Government end the freeze on local housing allowance . I be also extremely concerned about the level of homelessness , the demand on social housing provider in Stockport , and the financial demand on my local authority of meet emergency and temporary housing cost . stockport have see a significant increase in homelessness : more than 2 , 300 household seek assistance from the council in 2022 - 23 — an increase of 22 % on the previous year — and , sadly , I see that trend become bad . stockport be the good place to live in England , but private rent have shoot up in recent year . the housing emergency be now a full - blow crisis ; it be place those on low income in a very difficult place , and the Conservative Government be fail they . a constituent contact I recently because her rent have shoot up from £ 600 to £ 900 per month , cause her immense financial hardship . that rent increase seem entirely unreasonable . she now face an eviction via section 21 notice from a home she have live in for 15 year , at a time of her life when she should feel secure and comfortable in her own home . the current housing emergency can not be fix overnight , but end the freeze on the local housing allowance would have an immediate impact on those in need ahead of another difficult winter for the nation . People deserve the security and opportunity to get on in life , but under the Conservatives the foundation of a good life be crumble . homeowner face eye - water mortgage rate , young people be struggle to get on the housing ladder and the dream of home ownership have be snatch away from so many people who be stick pay unaffordable private rent . labour ' s plan for secure home will put an end to the Tories ' housing emergency , and we support fundamental reform of the private rent sector . I also want to cover NHS waiting list . I recently speak to a constituent regard her mother , who be in a care home . in Stockport , unfortunately , the wait for an assessment by NHS continence service be 31 week , which be far too long . my constituent , whose mother be 90 , contact I in distress regard the very long period of time her mother have to wait to get an assessment . I be tell that the assessment should take no long than 12 week , but in this case it take 31 . that be a very serious matter and I will write to the Department of Health and Social Care about it . there be almost 8 million people on NHS waiting list in England . the Prime Minister promise to cut those waiting list , yet last month they rise to a record high of 7 . 7 million people , mean that one in seven people be currently wait for NHS treatment . that be simply unacceptable . I recently write to all NHS - register dental practice in my constituency , ask they whether they have any availability for registration for nhs treatment . in my local hospital , Stepping Hill , 365 patient have to visit a & E over the past year to get emergency treatment for tooth decay . we be in a crisis . I thank the British Dental Association for the work it be do on this issue , but the Government have forget about NHS dentistry and it need fundamental reform . from the letter and email I have have from dentist in my constituency , I know the service be underfunded and people who can not afford dental treatment simply do not get it ; they have to do DIY dentistry at home , which be very dangerous . on local government funding , Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council — my local authority — have deliver over £ 140 million in saving since 2010 . it be also face further saving of £ 44 million by 2027 - 28 . the current cost of living crisis , cause by the Conservative party , be have a severe impact on my constituent and on people across the borough of Stockport . the council need much great funding certainty from central Government , and the national local government funding settlement fall short . I call on the Treasury to address that urgently . I will finish with a comment about respect for Shopworkers Week , which be this week . we have see a significant rise in physical and verbal attack and threat against shop worker . the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers — my trade union , as a former retail worker — be campaign on that issue , and the Government need to bring in legislation to address it . we need a general election now so that we can replace this tired Government . this will be the last Back - Bench contribution before the wind - up . the King ' s Speech be an opportunity for the Government to address the serious issue face the country . instead , it offer little in the way of hope for the million wait for NHS appointment , for the million struggle to pay their bill , or for the million of adult who struggle to read and write ; and it dash the hope of everyone who be concerned about the climate emergency . the NHS be in crisis , with more than 7 million people on waiting list for routine treatment in England . government spending on health have not keep pace with need . " the Rational Policy - Maker ' s Guide to the NHS " , publish by the 99 % Organisation , present the average annual change in per capita health spending — adjust for population and demographic factor — by UK government since 1979 . it show that the Labour Government between 1997 and 2010 oversee an average annual increase in per capita health spending of 5 . 67 % . however , there be an annual average reduction of 0 . 07 % under the coalition Government , and the Conservatives preside over a reduction of 0 . 03 % between 2015 and 2021 . tory austerity be destroy our NHS . this year , integrate care board be require to make average efficiency saving of an eyewatering 5 . 8 % at a time when we have massive waiting list . not only do that deliver misery to million of patient , but it be damage the economy , as people wait for vital treatment have their recovery delay , and so too their return to work . a government who fail the NHS fail the economy , so I urge the Government to change tack and use the autumn statement to provide the NHS with the resource it need . our level of poverty and inequality be a source of shame and need to be address urgently . More than 14 million people in the UK , include 4 . 2 million child and 2 . 1 million pensioner , be live in poverty in 2021 - 22 — about 1 million more people than in the previous year . analysis by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation find that an estimate 1 . 8 million UK household , contain nearly 3 . 8 million people , include a million child , experience destitution at some point in 2022 . shockingly , the study find that rate of destitution have more than double in the last five year as a result of benefit cut and cost of living pressure . Paul Kissack , chief executive of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , say that the Government be " choose not to " act . Olivier De Schutter , the UN ' s special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human right , describe poverty level in the UK as " simply not acceptable " and say that the Government be violate international law . OECD figure suggest that , compare with European Union country , the UK have high level of income inequality . poverty and inequality be not inevitable ; they can be address through progressive taxation , social security and investment in skill and education . the Government should start by abolish the two - child limit and increase child benefit . a government who keep a large proportion of the population in poverty and ill health be a Government who have fail . illiteracy among adult be another driver of poverty and inequality . in the King ' s Speech , the Government have yet again ignore the 7 . 1 million adult in England — one in six , or 16 . 4 % of the adult population — who be functionally illiterate . poor literacy skill make it hard for people to get good job , find and secure decent housing , and access service and use public transport , and it impact on the wellbeing and educational development of their child , too . I call on the Government to carry out a review of adult literacy level , and to come forward with strategy to improve they . the climate and ecological emergency that we be face affect we all , yet this irresponsible Government have announce a Bill that will support the future licensing of new oil and gas field . it be sheer folly for the Government to be prioritise fossil fuel when we face climate disaster . the challenge we face be immense , and we need a Government who will invest in home - grow clean power and insulate 19 million home , as Labour would do . the Government have still not come forward with an outright ban on underground coal gasification , a risky technology to extract fossil fuel that have the potential to destroy the important ecosystem of the Dee estuary in my constituency . my constituent be adamant , as be I , that they do not want to see UCG under the Dee . nor have the Government come forward with an outright ban on fracke — again , something that my constituent and I be oppose to . I call on the Government to ban both those technology once and for all as a matter of urgency . this King ' s Speech show a Government who have no intention of address these very serious issue : the future of the NHS , poverty , inequality , the cost of living crisis , illiteracy in adult and the climate crisis . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to the debate this afternoon . in particular , I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) on his brilliant maiden speech ; it be great to see he here today . I also thank my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) and for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) , the chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and the Petitions Committee , for their contribution on behalf of their Committees . we hear excellent speech from many colleague , include my hon . friend the Members for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) , for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) , for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , for Birmingham , Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) , for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) , for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , for Birmingham , Hall Green ( Tahir Ali ) , for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) , for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) , for Ilford South ( Sam Tarry ) , for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) and for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) . that long list show the importance that Opposition member place on grow the economy on the bedrock of fiscal responsibility . we hear that , from skill to housing , infrastructure to net zero and public service to poverty and inequality , there be a whole host of issue miss from the King ' s Speech that we would put into a Labour King ' s Speech if we be to win the next general election . I be pleased to conclude the debate on behalf of the Opposition this evening . as you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , I be appoint to the shadow Cabinet just over two month ago , yet even within my short tenure , I already find myself in a position to welcome a second Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , to her place . as I say early , I look forward to hold she to account for what No . 10 have describe as her core task , which be to grow the economy . we all know that any number of conservative reshuffle will not hide the failure of the past 13 year of conservative government . indeed , the late conservative Prime Minister be so keen to remind we of the past 13 year of conservative failure that he have decide to bring back one of the Conservatives ' fail former Prime Ministers as his Foreign Secretary — a promotion that we can only assume be a testament to the lack of available talent on the Government Benches . let we look at the King ' s Speech and the prospect for our economy . the good news be that the late conservative Prime Minister keep tell the country that his plan be work . indeed , he think it be work so well that he do not put anything meaningful on the economy in the King ' s Speech at all . the bad news be that , while the conservative tell the country that everything be fine , we all know from our own life that that be not the case and that their plan have fail . we see the cost of living , the cost of our rent and mortgage , the spending power of the pound in our pocket , and public service so close to broken that many people have give up try to access they at all . the late conservative Prime Minister might have his head in the sand , but we all know that the Conservatives ' plan be not work , because nothing be work in our country , which beg the question , why ? the Chancellor be take more money from we than ever before , thank to 25 conservative tax rise in this Parliament alone , but most of that extra cash be be spend on pay the interest on our national debt , to the tune of a whopping £ 112 billion in 2022 - 23 alone , which be more than we spend on our school . why ? because for year after year of the past 13 year of conservative failure on the economy , the Tories have have to borrow more and more money to cover up their failure — not just in response to Brexit , covid or the energy crisis , but in each and every year since they come to power in 2010 . let I tell you , Mr Deputy Speaker : it be work people who pay the price , not just through their taxis but through a lack of access to good - quality public service . People across the country will be say , " we have never pay so much and get so little in return . " how do we get ourselves out of this high - tax , high - debt spiral of Tory failure on the economy ? the short answer , of course , be for the late conservative Prime Minister to call an election so that a Labour Government can be give the chance to clear up the Tories ' mess for they . the long answer , and labour ' s plan , be to grow the economy so that work people be well off , because all the Prime Minister manage to reveal in the King ' s Speech be his empty hand . there be no planning reform to get Britain building , no pension reform to kick - start investment in Britain , no industrial strategy and no new skill policy to help train worker for the job of tomorrow , nor be there any fair choice on tax , such as end non - dom status . those be all labour policy that sit on a bedrock of our mission for the country . as we have hear repeatedly , this Government be out of touch and out of idea . only Labour have a plan to grow the economy , boost wage , bring down bill and make work people well off . prosperity for every corner of our country can happen only with political and economic stability . that be why we invite Conservative Members to join we in the Aye Lobby this evening to vote for our amendment , which would give new statutory power to the independent Office for Budget Responsibility — an uncontroversial amendment that should not trouble any Member on the Conservative Benches . it aim to prevent from happen again what the former fail conservative Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , do this time last year when she crash the economy . that be why a Labour Government will introduce tough new fiscal rule to create solid foundation for growth — never again the Tory way , play fast and loose with the economy and leave work people pay sky - high mortgage . we will roll up our sleeve and partner with business , rather than step aside and let investment relocate overseas . we will modernise our public service so that they work for patient , parent and public servant once again , and we will get Britain building , rather than allow outdated planning law and ongoing division within the conservative party to hold back our country . the unpalatable truth face the british people be that each day this Conservative Government remain in power be another day when our country be hold back from achieve its potential , and that the big risk to the economy be the conservative party itself . that be why I find myself in the unusual circumstance of agree with the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , who be until recently the Home Secretary . she have describe the leadership of the conservative party as " uncertain , weak , and lack in the quality of leadership that this country need . " I could not agree more . even conservative mp agree that the choice face the british people at the next election be between more chaos and uncertainty under the conservative that leave Britain bad off , and the security of a change Labour party that will unleash a decade of national renewal and make work people well off once again . it be an honour to participate in the debate follow the first king ' s Speech for more than 70 year . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to this debate , include the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) both for his warmish welcome and for his remark . he and I be both quite new to our post , and much as we might disagree quite fundamentally on major topic such as taxis and spending , I be sure he agree that it be a privilege to be close today ' s debate . during my time at the Department for Work and Pensions , I see at first hand the impact that government decision have on people , and the hugely positive effect that work have on household and region . I will continue to hold that understanding as I take on my new role , and I look forward to work with member across the House to make sure that the economy grow , that the wealth spread , and that the Government be responsible and restrain with the public purse string . I be sure the hon . Gentleman recognise , as I do , that the Chief Secretary ' s job be a vital one that show a clear difference between our two party , and I be sure we will have robust discussion in the month ahead . I very much look forward to those opportunity . we live in a change world . even since this Government set out their previous legislative agenda in 2022 , we have see huge upheaval . Putin ' s appal war in Ukraine have now drag into another year of suffering and brave defiance ; the terrorist action of Hamas in the middle east have cause unspeakable suffering in Israel and Gaza ; and all the while , the spectre of inflation haunt the globe , as the financial echo of Putin ' s war , covid - 19 and the global financial crisis continue to ring out . what will work to address they be the careful , deliberate effort that this Government be pursue , which we will continue in the Chancellor ' s forthcoming autumn statement . this be what the Government have do ever since we come to power , and this be what the King ' s Speech do now . before I turn to the measure in the King ' s Speech , it be worth take a look at what this Government have already achieve . we come to power with a duty to tackle what be then the bad recession since the second world war : 2 . 5 million people be unemployed and 1 . 4 million be stick on out - of - work benefit . what have change since 2010 ? unemployment be down by 1 million people , and 1 . 7 million have be able to lift themselves out of poverty thank to a new living wage . while many in the EU be experience a recession , here in the UK , as my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) regularly point out , since 2010 we have grow fast than France , Germany , Italy , Spain , the Netherlands and Japan , and our recovery from the pandemic have be one of the strong in the G7 . we have grow our economy by 65 % , and cut our emission by almost 50 % since 1990 . perhaps most impressive of all , we have do this while slash our borrowing by 70 % between 2010 and the start of the pandemic . this be what a Conservative Government deliver . here I should consider the amendment in the name of the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , although I will be brief as Opposition Members do not cover it much . if their amendment have be in force in 2020 , we surely would have find ourselves in a much bad position . it would have hamper the Government from act in an emergency , as we do during the pandemic , because instead of take decisive action to support people and business up and down the United Kingdom , we would have be force into a 12 - week process with the OBR before we be able to deliver any support whatsoever . I be sure even Opposition Members would recognise that that be not an optimal outcome . indeed , the Opposition seem to have put forward a plethora of new spending commitment today prior to an update OBR forecast , which I would suggest be not in the spirit of their own amendment . turn to some of the measure mention today , the shadow Chancellor criticise the lack of action on the cost of living , yet do not once mention inflation . it be up there with the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) forget the deficit . get inflation down be the ultimate solution to the cost of living pressure we face . it require discipline , unglamorous work , which mean keep inflationary spending down . there be not one proposal in the shadow Chancellor ' s speech to address it . it be true that she do not mention the deficit - bust , inflation - produce £ 28 billion of borrow in her speech , but that be another Labour policy well overdue for a u - turn . key to drive non - inflationary growth will be boost trade . the Brexit zombie on the SNP Benches fail to recognise the potential of the trade deal we have with the rest of the world . my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset and my hon . friend the Members for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) and for Burnley ( Antony Higginbotham ) know the benefit that our open , international , free trading stance will bring . deal such as the CPTPP with the fast - grow economy in the world will deliver the clear benefit of Brexit , and we should be talk they up , not down . indeed , there be too much talk down in the debate today . the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) ask who be well off . I will tell he who be well off : the 1 . 7 million people who have be take out of poverty since 2010 , the 200 , 000 pensioner take out of poverty , those help by the 40 % drop in youth unemployment , those for whom it now pay to go out to work , child learn in school that be more likely to be good or outstanding and , as my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) say , the low - pay , the number of whom have dramatically fall since the national living wage be introduce . since 2015 , the proportion of people on low pay have halve . my right hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) , with whom I hope to engage a lot as I hugely respect the work he do as Chief Secretary to the Treasury , point out the dramatic impact that a Conservative Government and a Conservative Mayor , the brilliant Ben Houchen , have have on Teesside . he talk about Labour ' s legacy there as one of mediocrity and failure , and he be right . with steelmaking back , carbon capture and storage , and a new net zero power station , this be level up in action , and that be what a Conservative Government deliver . turn to growth and supply side reform , which lot of people have mention today , at the spring Budget we announce a comprehensive employment package design to remove the barrier that be prevent people from get back into work . this be the welfare reform that be call for by my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) and other . at the autumn statement , the Government will announce a package of long - term measure , create an investment economy by unlock business investment . I welcome the remark by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) about the digital network Bill and the importance of broadband . I be glad to have hear the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) and for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) bring up childcare . this be an important measure for growth as well as the right thing to do , and I hope that they welcome our £ 200 million investment . I do not think that the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood be in her place , but I note her remark on sodium valproate and will make sure that they be feed into the Health team . that be very important . on the supply side , many member , include my hon . friend the Members for Burnley , for Burton ( Kate Kniveton ) and for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) , the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , talk about the importance of transport in their local area and of protect consumer travel by air . housing have be bring up by a number of member . we be on track to deliver the 1 million house over this Parliament , and the Chancellor be look at what more we can do to support planning reform , particularly on infrastructure . I be slightly incredulous to hear the opposition talk about boost housing when they have just block a measure that would have add 100 , 000 much - need home . be in opposition be as much about what to support as it be about what to oppose , and that be a mistake . however , I welcome the Opposition ' s support , albeit grudging , for the Renters ( Reform ) Bill and the leasehold Bill . before I close , I should mention the brilliant maiden speech by the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) , whose beautiful constituency we have all be see a little bit too much of recently . it be a gracious and accomplished maiden speech that speak to his decency in the way he conduct the campaign . I wholeheartedly agree with he that there be nothing well than to represent the place in which one grow up . it be the world ' s great privilege . this place , across the House , do an enormous amount of good . I hope and expect that the family , colleague and friend that he bring along today be proud to see his excellent speech , and I look forward to further contribution . we be take the action that will make this country well . the King ' s Speech aim to push the UK into the spotlight on the international stage , embrace our role as a champion of global free trade , open for business and investment from around the world . just look at our decision to scrap hs2 , a one - route project where the right decision be postpone and kick down the road as cost mount up . the £ 36 billion that we be save by cancel hs2 will be reinveste to deliver Network North , improve journey and infrastructure between and within the town and city of the north and the midland , instead of just give the people of the north a quick way to move south . the legislative agenda cut through the noise of those who want to talk Britain down , who speak freely about our challenge but be tight lipped on solution , and provide clarity , certainty and stability for those who need it most . the last year have not be easy ; the come one will offer their own challenge . I understand those who want to wish those truth away , but this Government ' s instinct be to treat the public like adult . it be important that the public understand the challenge that we face , so that they can understand the change we have make to safeguard their future . this government ' s legislative agenda recognise that , balance the delivery of both security and opportunity . the Government have a track record and a long - term plan to do just that , and I be hugely proud to play my part as Chief Secretary to the Treasury . that be why we will deliver licence for fresh oil and gas field , continue to work to halve inflation and bring forward the trade Bill , cement our place in the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , lock in long - term right for UK firm to do business in the fast grow region of the world . none of this be easy . these decision involve tough trade - off , but because of our history of delivery and our long - term plan for the future capture in this King ' s Speech , I know that the Government can achieve their aim for this country and help every part of the country to reach its potential . I commend the Loyal Address , unamended , to the House . for those who be a bit rusty on King ' s Speech procedure , I hope to assist . I will put only the amendment in the name of the opposition today . other question will be put tomorrow . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Andrew Bridgen Deidre Brock Alan Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mike Wood Robert Largan the House divide : Ayes 228 , Noes 314 . question accordingly negative . the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume tomorrow . business without Debate Deferred Divisions Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Secretary Alister Jack relate to constitutional Law . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Constitutional Law that the draft Carer ' s assistance ( Carer Support Payment ) ( Scotland ) Regulations 2023 ( Consequential Modifications ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . with the leave of the House , I will take motion 3 , 4 and 5 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , United Kingdom Internal Market that the draft United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 ( Services Exclusions ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 20 July , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . Council Tax that the draft Representation of the People ( Postal Vote Handling and Secrecy ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 11 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . environmental Protection that the draft Persistent Organic Pollutants ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . European Scrutiny Committee Ordered , that Mr John Baron be discharge from the European Scrutiny Committee and Dame Andrea Jenkyns be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin . ) Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy Ordered , that Tobias Ellwood be discharge from the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy and Robert Courts be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin . ) Petition - Planning permission for telecommunication telegraph pole installation 7 . 8 pm we have a unique situation in Hull and East Riding where three different broadband company be instal broadband infrastructure at the same time , and they be not share with each other or the exist provider . this have result in telegraph pole be put up in area that have never have they , or multiple set in area where they already exist . exist legislation allow this to happen with the local planning authority and resident have no say in the matter . resident want to be consult about what happen in their own street . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that telegraph pole be erect by designate communication network operator for the expansion of Fibre to the Premises ( FTTP ) broadband do not need planning permission under the Electronic Communications Code ( Conditions and Restrictions ) 2003 and the Town and Country Planning ( General Permitted Development ) ( England ) Order 2015 ; that the only requirement on the operator be 28 day notice to the Local Planning Authority ( LPA ) that there be no requirement to consider alternative such as under - street cabling ; that the LPA can only make suggestion on site which the telecom company be under no obligation to follow ; that there be no requirement to inform resident of the installation and so no opportunity for they to inform the process ; that the first knowledge resident will have of a telegraph pole be instal be when it appear in their street or outside their residence . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to make statutory requirement for designate communication network operator to apply for permission to the LPA on any propose installation of telegraph pole and for the LPA to consult with affected resident before issue any permission . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002872 ] petition - A5 traffic volume Hockliffe I rise to present the petition of the villager of Hockliffe on the volume of traffic from the A5 that go through their village . I thank Councillor Rob Scott , the chair of the parish council , and Peter Edwards OBE , who help to put the petition together . resident complain of vibration so bad that object be fall off shelf , firm be lose business because customer can not get through , and parent be worried about their child walk to school because of driver mount the pavement . nearly 85 % of the resident of Hockliffe sign the petition , which state : the petition of the resident of the village of Hockliffe , declare that the unacceptable volume of traffic now use the A5 trunk road through the village of Hockliffe endanger the health , safety and well being of resident and negatively impact local business ; far declare that Hockliffe , with over 400 home , uniquely have the A5 trunk road pass through its centre ; note that the 2017 M1A5 link road provide relief for Dunstable but the impact on Hockliffe be greatly underestimate with over 20 , 000 vehicle now pass daily through the village ; many of they hgv ; further note that the 4 - way traffic light in the centre of Hockliffe can not cope with this volume of traffic , lead to constant congestion and lengthy tailback in all direction , with noise and fume from stationary traffic affect the health and well being of resident ; note that pedestrian and motorist suffer danger from frustrated driver mount pavement , race to beat the light or perform u turn to avoid the stationary or slow move traffic ; further note that many M1 closure , due to accident or maintenance , divert traffic to the A5 and this lead to gridlock through Hockliffe , day or night ; far declare that Hockliffe resident often suffer sleep disruption due to HGV traffic , especially during M1 closure or restriction that , when complete , the new A6 / M1 link road , and a grow number of HGV logistic park and new home in the local area , will all add to an already unacceptable traffic problem affect the A5 through the village of Hockliffe . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to convene all appropriate and necessary party in order to find an early solution to the unacceptable traffic volume , congestion and associate danger on the A5 trunk road through the village of Hockliffe , Bedfordshire and that this be urgently progress . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002874 ] bridge in London : Maintenance Funding Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) thank you for call I , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I be grateful to Mr Speaker for grant my request for a debate on the funding of London bridge . I be proud to be a River Thames MP , with Putney bridge a major and much - love landmark as well as an essential road route in my constituency . however , it be not Putney bridge but the closure of Hammersmith bridge and its huge impact across London that bring I here this evening . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure the debate . More than a year ago I ask the then road Minister , the hon . member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , for a meeting to discuss the repair of Hammersmith bridge . I follow up that request on at least six occasion , but he have not reply by the time he be reshuffle yesterday . I do , however , receive a reply to my letter to the Secretary of State for Transport after the cancellation of the future stage of hs2 . I have ask for a little of the £ 36 billion to be redirect to Hammersmith bridge , give that 0 . 5 % of that would pay the full cost , and we know that the Department for Transport typically pay between 80 % and 90 % for strategic road scheme . do my hon . friend agree that the only reason the bridge have not be repair be that the Government refuse to pay more than a third of the cost , and cash - strap local authority can not meet a bill run into hundred of million of pound ? I thank my hon . friend for make that important point . he put the case very well that finance be available , that it could come from the money allocate for HS2 funding for south - east road and that Hammersmith and Fulham Council can not be expect to pay a third of the cost for this bridge , which be very high and rise . he have summarise my speech very well but it will be go ahead , and I hope that the Minister will respond by use this opportunity to at last announce the funding for the reopening of the bridge . here we be , my hon . friend and I , represent both side of the river and both see the impact that this be have on our constituent . I look forward to hear more of the hon . member ' s speech on this vex topic , but I feel a sense of d é j à vu because we have all be here before . as she and the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) know , my constituent have also be badly affect by this closure . they be prevent from access school , medical facility and public transport on the other side of the bridge in Hammersmith , and that be have a really damaging impact on the local community , particularly in Barnes , but while I be concerned about my constituent , it be have an impact on the much wide geography . do she agree that it be affect not just Barnes , Hammersmith and Putney but the whole of south - west London ? it be a vital strategic route across the river — of which we do not have enough — and its closure be cause lengthy tailback and congestion in a large area across west London and south - west London , and the wide south - east and Surrey in particular . I absolutely agree with my constituency neighbour . this show not only the cross - party support for the reopening of the bridge but the enormous impact that its closure be have across a wide area of London . Hammersmith bridge be a national transport route and the fact that it have be close for so many year be a disaster for many people . I commend the hon . Lady , and I want to add my support for her request . on Monday this week , the Quoile bridge in my constituency develop a crack right down it and it be now closed . it be a major thoroughfare that carry lot of traffic , which will now be unable to go through Downpatrick on that road for a period of time . I understand the pain that the hon . Lady feel for her constituent and I offer my support to she . I be intrigue as to how there could be a Northern Ireland aspect to Hammersmith bridge , and now we all know . well do , Jim ! it be a huge honour to be intervene on by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I just hope that his constituent will not have to go through the same enormous pain , the long wait and the despair about funding as our constituent in south - west London . I also hope that the Minister hear that and will look into funding for the hon . Gentleman ' s bridge as well . the closure of a bridge be a dreadful thing . at every advice surgery I hold , at every visit to business , at every local event I go to and every time I go knock on door , everyone want to know when Hammersmith bridge will be reopen . it be a grade 2 list heritage suspension bridge . it be build in 1887 but close to motor vehicle in April 2019 when fissure be find , make it dangerous . Boris Johnson say at Prime Minister ' s question here in this place on 21 October 2020 that it would be reopen , but it be still closed . I hold an Adjournment debate on the issue in June last year , with a very disappointing Government response . the restoration have still not have its funding agree , let alone be start or finish , so I be back here again . this be a London issue but it need a national solution and action that can be take only by the Government to fund the restoration . it be a disgrace that Transport Ministers have not sort this out . my constituent be worried that it have become a plaything of conservative party politicking , with conservative mayoral and parliamentary candidate and mp stand next to the bridge say that something will be do , and then quickly forget about it altogether . the Hammersmith bridge saga have reveal systemic failure in the way that bridge maintenance be fund that need to be urgently address by the Minister . while the Government have drag their foot , the estimate cost of the bridge have be hit by Conservative - fuel inflation and the war in Ukraine , where the steel be go to be source , rise from the initial £ 140 million to an estimate £ 250 million . the long the Government wait , the more the cost will rise . the closure of Hammersmith bridge since 2019 have have a huge impact on my constituent , especially in Putney and Roehampton . an estimate 22 , 000 vehicle use to cross the bridge every day , as well as seven vital bus service . those vehicle be now divert through Putney , which cause high level of pollution and congestion and long journey time . so that the Minister can fully understand what this closure have mean for my constituent , I will tell he some of the result of my recent survey of local resident and business . over 75 % of business owner say that the closure have negatively impact their business because of pollution , difficulty with delivery , employee commute and low morale . some 90 % of people say that the bridge closure have be " extremely disruptive " and that they feel more isolated and disconnected . Putney suffer severe traffic jam every day , with child inhale toxic fume . Asthma level be rise . patient need to get to a hospital in an emergency be stick in traffic that be barely move . it be also make cyclist and would - be cyclist less likely to cycle because of the danger and pollution on the very congested road . People who commute through , live or work on Putney High Street , Upper Richmond Road and Lower Richmond Road know how bad thing be , and they need their voice to be hear . the Government should have step up back in April 2019 , work with Hammersmith and Fulham Council on the business plan and fund it , and then they should have begin the restoration work . we might then have have the bridge reopen by now . instead , they palm off responsibility and have play political game . engineering work cost £ 8 million start in February 2022 and will be finish in a few month — the carriageway will then be clear for pedestrian and cyclist , which be very welcome — but the full restoration be still unfunded architect ' plan . the Hammersmith Bridge taskforce chair by Baroness Vere agree a settlement of Hammersmith and Fulham Council pay a third , Transport for London pay a third and the Government pay a third , but the taskforce then do nothing else . the taskforce have not meet since November 2021 . no task and no force . this third - third - third structure be a very poor settlement , as neither the council nor TfL can afford a third and the Government have not yet agree to their third . the estimated cost be £ 250 million , but the council ' s entire annual budget be just £ 132 million . a business plan be submit by Hammersmith and Fulham Council in December 2022 , propose a toll to pay for its third but , nearly a year on , it have still not be agree and fund by the Government . I hope the Minister can tell we what will happen . these sum be way beyond the mean of an individual council . how can a council with a budget of only £ 132 million a year for library , adult social care and child ' s service afford to pay for this ? where could the money come from ? when it be announce that over £ 4 billion have be carve out from the cancellation of HS2 for road infrastructure in the south - east of England , it be an opportunity to fund the bridge . my constituent deserve to know why Hammersmith bridge be not receive any support from this fund , or from which fund it will receive support . if just 5 % of the £ 4 billion budget for the south - east — that be just 6 % of the overall budget — be use , Hammersmith bridge could be fix and reopen after all these year of closure . my constituent and people across south - west London need answer , so I hope the Minister can answer these question today . why be it take so long to fund the bridge ? have a funding source be identify ? when will we know that it have be fund ? when will the bridge be reopen for bus and vehicle ? what be be do to stop another London council have to foot such a large bill again in future ? the closure of Hammersmith bridge should be a wake - up call for the Government to reassess the state of our bridge and the broken funding settlement . I hope that the Minister will commit to look at the ownership and funding of all London bridge , so that this Hammersmith bridge fiasco be never repeat . but why do Hammersmith and Fulham Council have responsibility for this enormously expensive bridge ? the arrangement for responsibility for London bridge be establish by the Local Government Act 1985 , when the Greater London Council be dissolve , and we have a disorganised and messy hotchpotch of responsibility . some be assign simply because of the name , and so Hammersmith and Fulham Council be responsible because the bridge be call " Hammersmith bridge " . that be a ludicrous way of assign responsibility for a national , heritage , landmark bridge and a vital connection in our city ' s transport infrastructure . it be an embarrassment that as a country we be unable to find a political solution to this crisis . Hammersmith bridge be a national infrastructure project in the great city in the world , and the abstention from responsibility by the Conservative Government be shocking . would Brooklyn bridge , or any other bridge in any other capital , be allow to remain closed to all vehicle for year and year on end ? we urgently need a futureproof , reliable and sufficient stream of funding so that all our bridge be maintain for all who use they . I urge the Minister to look into reform the funding formula for London ' s bridge and river crossing , so that another council be not burden with a bill of £ 250 million that it can not afford . London borough be previously able to access support for bridge maintenance from TfL ' s local implementation plan , but the Government ' s restrictive cut impose on TfL mean that that support be no long available . that will inevitably lead to more and more bridge needlessly fall into disrepair , mean big and big bill in the long term . so what need to happen ? TfL need new , long - term funding certainty through a multi - year funding arrangement , which would make sure that council can access the support they need when bridge fall into disrepair . without this investment , cost will continue to soar , with the Conservatives kick the can down the road for a future Government to clean up . if the Minister be still convinced that this be not his problem , I hope that the £ 500 million pay by Londoners in vehicle excise duty every year which be spend on road in other part of the country , convince he of the need to make sure that London ' s road and bridge be maintain when they need it . I invite the Minister to visit the bridge and I request a meeting to discuss the funding . my main ask be very straightforward — it be for the Government to do everything in their power to urgently fund the restoration and reopening of Hammersmith bridge at the early opportunity . I hope he will not tell I that the Government have do everything they can and that it be all up to Hammersmith and Fulham Council to step up , because all the leadership so far have come from the council . that apply in respect of discover the fissure in the first place ; take action to close the bridge and make it safe ; the memorandum of understanding ; the proposal for a cheap bridge replacement and the first project ; the business plan ; and the stabilisation work . the Government must now step up to shoulder their responsibility to push this through , respond to the business plan , work with Hammersmith and Fulham Council and TfL and ensure that the restoration be finally fully fund . I also ask the Minister to review the entire funding settlement for London bridge , which have lead we here , and why this most expensive of heritage bridge project be be leave to a cash - strap local council because of a historical whim . we clearly need a new approach that safeguard our London bridge for generation to come . I congratulate the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) on secure this debate . I appreciate and fully understand that Hammersmith bridge be of particular interest to her constituent and to people in the constituency throughout the south and west of London . I wish to make a few preliminary point , the first of which be that clearly there be a good pre - exist work relationship between the Department for Transport and the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham . obviously , as the Minister , I have to choose my word relatively carefully because , as the hon . Lady will be aware , the business case for Hammersmith bridge strengthen work have be submit to both the Department for Transport and Transport for London for review . as she will no doubt appreciate , I can only say so much tonight to avoid prejudice any ongoing governance procedure and the borough ' s future procurement activity . however , I will attempt to address that . I be uniquely acquaint with the particular bridge . I have cycle across it many time in the past . I use to live in Fulham , back in the distant day when I first become a Member here , so I be well acquainted with it . clearly , on my first day in the Department for Transport , I be delighted to be answer the Adjournment debate on an issue that I have inherit but which I be delighted to inherit . it would be a sad day if there be no contribution to the Adjournment debate by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . like you , Mr Deputy Speaker , I fathom my brain to try to work out how , on a debate on " Bridges in London : Maintenance and Funding " , a gentleman from Northern Ireland would wangle in a vital part of transport infrastructure that would make all the difference in the world , but he successfully do so without interruption , fear or favour , and I congratulate he on that . I look forward to his pitch , doubtless in writing , to myself , the Northern Ireland Government and various other local authority for bridge assistance . I have visit his constituency on several occasion and I congratulate he , as always , on his support for this process . give the Minister ' s comment about the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , I assume he welcome intervention . I congratulate the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) on secure this important debate on the financing of road and bridge in London . I welcome my hon . friend the Minister to his place , but I hope he be aware that Government funding for road and bridge in London be normally funnel and channel through Transport for London . he might be aware that the Government have already bail out TfL to the tune of around £ 6 billion in the last few year , which be a significant sum of money . I politely urge the Minister , as he get his foot under his new desk , that he might consider channel that money directly to the borough , in place like Bexley and Bromley , as I think that money would be well spend that way than through Transport for London . can I be really cheeky and ask he to meet I , when he get the time , to discuss my campaign to prevent the Mayor of London from toll the Blackwall tunnel , which be one of the few crossing in south - east London ? my hon . friend , who I know very well — I have visit his constituency in a former life — make very good point . he be a doughty champion for Bexley . he follow in the famous footstep of James Brokenshire , who we all miss and who be my boss at the Home Office for a long period . I be happy to discuss the issue he raise far . he make an interesting point about funding go in a particular way . it would be wrong of I to make first - day commitment at the Dispatch Box , but I will take his point away and get official to look at it with interest , and I be happy to discuss it far . the hon . member for Putney set out the history of Hammersmith bridge in some detail . she be right that it be a grade II list suspension bridge , open in 1887 , and have serve generation of Londoners very well for some considerable time . however , there be a few of her point with which I would gently take issue . first , let we go to the basic : the bridge be not own by the Government ; it be own by the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham . it be not the responsibility of the Government . even if people have listen to quite a lot of the speech , they may not have pick that up . the responsibility for maintain the bridge and make decision on its repair lie with the borough . it be unfortunate that the bridge have to close , first to motor vehicle in 2019 and then to all user in 2020 . the reason , as we know , be that the safety of those use the bridge be deem to be of the utmost priority . the assertion be make that the Government have do nothing . I respectfully invite the hon . Lady to accept that the Government have provide nearly £ 10 million of funding to support the London borough , to ensure that there be remedial work and assistance on an ongoing basis . I set that out to try to correct the record . follow the complete closure of the bridge in 2020 , the dft provide £ 4 million of taxpayer ' money , which enable a comprehensive investigation into the overall structure and condition of the bridge . through this investment , world - lead engineer work to develop a complete picture of the issue that face the bridge . the work determine the bridge to be in well condition than first fear , lead to the bridge reopen on a temporary and control basis to pedestrian , cyclist and river traffic . the Department for Transport have work closely with the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham and with Transport for London to help facilitate the reopening of the bridge to all user . in that vein , DFT establish the Hammersmith bridge taskforce , which be lead by the Transport Minister , Baroness Vere , as the hon . Lady outline . the taskforce be set up in 2019 and have have many , many meeting — well over 15 — since , and it be instrumental in provide a forum for interested stakeholder to work together to develop a clear course of action to resolve the immediate safety concern around the bridge . I know the hon . Lady have call for a further meeting of the taskforce . I want to try to address that . I assure she that when we be in a position to hold a further taskforce meeting , it will be to discuss issue of significance or change for the project , therefore ensure that it remain a good use of stakeholder ' time . however , she will be aware that we have be wait for the business case to be submit and that be clearly the key part . the commitment to this project by the DFT have not stop at the initial £ 4 million support provide to the authority . in the most recent tfl extraordinary funding and financing settlement of August 2022 , we commit to funding up to one third of the cost share with the borough and tfl of reopen the bridge to pedestrian , cyclist and river traffic , and then , depend on cost , to bus and motor vehicle . the first part of this commitment have already be deliver . in March 2022 , the Department for Transport approve the business case from the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham for the stabilisation work on the bridge , which in turn trigger the release of a furth £ 3 million of Government funding . these work will ensure that the bridge remain open to pedestrian , cyclist and river traffic permanently , with no risk of further temporary closure due to unsafe condition . I be pleased to say that those work be due to complete very early in the new year and will provide certainty to the pedestrian and cyclist of Barnes , Hammersmith , Fulham , Richmond and beyond that this link across the Thames will remain open . most recently , as all party will be aware , the Department for Transport provide the borough with a furth £ 2 . 5 million for the crucial geotechnical investigation now be carry out at Hammersmith bridge , which will pave the way for the next stage of the work . this bring the total amount of Government funding to the bridge to date of up to nearly £ 10 million . that be exceptional funding . the next stage of the project be to strengthen the core and renovate other structurally significant part of the bridge . the strengthen phase of engineering work will build on stabilisation work and , upon completion , will allow the bridge to reopen to all user . that should include bus and motor vehicle . follow close co - operation with TfL and the Department , the borough have now develop and submit a his Majesty ' s Treasury Green Book outline business case for the second stage of the work to the Department for Transport , set out the estimate cost range for strengthen the bridge . the Department be review that outline business case in great detail . it be submit in on 23 April , as I understand it , so clearly that be an ongoing process . the hon . member for Putney ask about the hs2 project and the funding relate to it , but no decision have be make regard reallocation of fund . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) also raise the local implementation plan . it be true that Transport for London provide formula funding to London borough for transport project , but its budget for bridge project be just over £ 2 million , to be share between 33 borough . that be obviously insufficient to fund this project . the Minister stress at the beginning of his remark that the repair of the bridge be the responsibility of Hammersmith and Fulham . while I fully accept that , do he not think it be in the Government ' s interest to provide more substantial funding , because of the strategic nature of the river crossing ? would he consider the fact that , as I say early on , this be about more than local transport — it be a piece of strategic infrastructure ? therefore , responsibility aside , be it not in the Government ' s interest to provide more substantial funding ? I want to address the hon . Lady ' s point in brief , but I be go to come on to the legal basis . the practical reality be that , under successive government of different political persuasion , date back many decade , the legal basis for this bridge and for other bridge in London be in relation to the local borough . it be the case , for example , that Wandsworth bridge require repair work , and in that particular case that be do by the local borough . she will be aware of the Local Government Act 1985 , the Greater London Authority and the action take in 2000 with the mayoralty and the creation of TfL , which mean that significant road become the specific responsibility of TfL . with no disrespect , the A306 , which run over Hammersmith bridge , be a local road , as be , effectively , most of London ' s bridge . I make the point again : under the Highways Act 1980 and various other act under successive government — this be not the work of one particular Government — these bridge and road be associate with the local authority . I take the point the hon . Lady make , and it be for that reason that the Government have spend over £ 10 million progressing matter as we have do thus far . with no disrespect either to the hon . member for Putney , who seem to suggest there be nothing the Government have do and that it be all down to the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham , the £ 10 million have be pay over a series of year to get to the hurdle that we have necessarily get to , and an agreement be enter into at an early stage . I do not believe I can add anything far , other than to congratulate she on secure the debate and highlight the issue , which clearly affect her constituent and other in west London . I continue to assure she that the Department will provide support to both the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham and to TfL on the bridge project as it go ahead . question put and agree to . House adjourn .