boost british export , especially for our small business , be vital to create job and economic growth , and it absolutely must be a strategic priority for the Government . this secondary legislation be a welcome step forward , give UK Export Finance the opportunity to grow its portfolio of project to help deliver for business across the country . this measure will be very important to my constituent , as Wokingham be one of the good place in the country to do business , and the Government should continue to help unlock our growth potential . we rank 15th of 362 local authority for competitiveness between 2017 and 2021 . the gross value add per fill job vacancy be 23 . 5 % , which be significantly fast than the rest of Berkshire and the south - east . my constituency have great example of where Government support programme have deliver success , such as M2 M Pharmaceuticals , which win a King ' s award for enterprise this year . tomorrow , I be visit Intersurgical , another great success story for Wokingham business , which design , manufacture and supply medical device . have grow from seven people in 1982 to upwards of 3 , 500 employee worldwide , it now export its product globally . however , I be sure it be deeply concerned about the Budget ' s impact on maintain its profitability . I look forward to hear from the company what more the Government need to do to support its success . there be certainly more that should be do to boost british exporter and improve Britain ' s trade policy . to start , the Government urgently need to fix our break relation with the EU to foster close co - operation with our large trading partner . we must cut vast swathe of red tape and reduce the trade barrier that hold back our business . for example , the Government should urgently negotiate a veterinary and plant health agreement with the EU to reverse the decline in british agrifood export since 2019 . secure bespoke mutual recognition agreement for Britain ' s engineer , architect , lawyer and accountant would also help british business across a variety of sector to secure great export opportunity . the trade association I have meet make one thing overtly clear : the impact of Brexit be hurt their profit , and we need to fix this mess . on trade , I hope this government do not follow the conservative party ' s approach of negotiate trade deal in desperation , which lead to weak outcome , as we can see from the result . for instance , the Conservatives fail to guarantee british standard on animal welfare and environmental protection in agreement such as the Australia trade deal , at an especially difficult time for the agriculture sector . even a Tory former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs describe that agreement as " not actually a very good deal " . — [ Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 424 . ] Parliament never get a proper say on our trade deal , eliminate the opportunity to stop the Government barrel ahead with deal that be deeply unpopular . I respect the Minister greatly , but there be a lot to get right , and to fix from the previous Government . will he meet I and representative from Wokingham business , such as Xpert , which be struggle to secure UK export finance , to hear what they need from his Department ? will he set out to the House the specific form of scrutiny we will get when the Government conclude the trade deal ? will his Department renegotiate the Australia and New Zealand trade agreement ?