Oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — Social Housing Supply what step her Department be take to increase the supply of social housing . what step her Department be take to increase the supply of social housing . what step her Department be take to increase the supply of social housing . what step her Department be take to increase the supply of social housing . we will deliver the big increase in social and affordable housing in a generation . the last government ' s affordable housing programme be expect to deliver only between 110 , 000 and 130 , 000 home , although when it be publish in 2020 , the ambition be for 180 , 000 . labour be fix that . the Chancellor announce in the Budget an immediate one - year cash injection of £ 500 million into the affordable home programme to deliver 5 , 000 new social and affordable home . many of my constituent in Birmingham Erdington be worried about the deteriorate quality of social housing . what work be be do to ensure that housing stock be maintain to the high standard , so that tenant can live in the safe , high - quality housing that they deserve ? I know that housing quality have be a particular issue in my hon . friend ' s constituency . all social housing tenant deserve to live in a safe , decent home . we will bring forward Awaab ' s law to the social rent sector , set new time limit for social landlord to fix dangerous hazard . we will shortly consult on minimum energy efficiency standard and a new decent home standard . we will direct the Regulator of Social Housing to introduce a new competence and conduct standard and an access to information requirement . there be 2 , 151 family across Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole on social housing waiting list , many in unsuitable temporary accommodation . what step be the Department take to unlock development site in densely pack constituency like mine , so that the council can meet its housing target , and family can get the safe and secure housing that they deserve ? we have consult on change to the national planning policy framework to maximise development on brownfield land , and we have invite view on proposal for a new brownfield passport , which will provide more explicit guidance on how the potential of land in urban area can be maximise . we intend to publish update on the national planning policy framework by the end of this year . in Scotland , 242 people die while homeless last year . those death be a travesty for our country and a damn symbol of scottish Government failure . my local authority of West Dunbartonshire declare a housing emergency this year . do the Secretary of State agree that as we head into winter , it be more urgent than ever that the Scottish National party Government finally take action , deliver a fair deal for council , build more affordable social house and offer every Scot a safe , secure home ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue ; 242 people die be absolutely horrendous . we face an acute housing crisis . while housing and homelessness be devolve , I urge our scottish counterpart to grip this issue . I completely agree that he give a damn example of the crisis in Scotland . every single homeless death be a tragedy . that be why a sufficient supply of affordable housing and join - up support service be essential , as we will make clear in our upcoming inter - ministerial meeting with our scottish colleague . I have another question on the SNP ' s failure on housing , because it be so bad . scottish figure show that new build start be fall in all sector , and be at their low level since 2013 . private sector new build be down 20 % since 2022 . for social housing , the figure be even bad : they be down by 30 % . this be devastate the opportunity for family across my constituency to get a home of their own . the SNP have the large funding settlement in devolution history . will it use that to properly fund the social rent sector ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the housing crisis in Scotland , where too many family be wait for too long for a safe and secure home . I completely back all the brilliant work that my friend the Scottish Labour leader be do , and I know that the choice will be stark for people in Scotland in May 2026 ; it will be between a national Labour Government deliver for the work people of this country , and a clap - out and fail SNP Government north of the border . give that the Secretary of State ' s avow goal be to create more social housing , can she explain to the House why Labour - control Thanet district council be seek to build a large housing estate on the outskirt of Birchington - on - Sea , on prime agricultural land ? there be little demand for those house , and little provision of social housing . can she have a word with the leader of Thanet council ? in our new national planning policy framework , we have set out how we be protect agricultural land , but we have also set out the fact that our country face a housing crisis . I can not believe that the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency do not have a crisis , because it be everywhere . over the last 10 year , under the previous Government , £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money be hand out to second and holiday homeowner in Cornwall alone , while only half that amount be spend on social housing for first - time need . meanwhile , there be a massive backlog of shovel - ready social housing development that have plan permission and be ready to be deliver , but be catch by construction inflation . surely the Government can add the dot to resolve the problem — order . the house could have be build by now . I really hope so , Mr Speaker ; that be the plan . we be take step through the new national planning policy framework , and we have new mandatory target for local authority . we have also allow local authority to keep their right to buy receipt . the Government be take a number of measure to ensure that we get the home that we so desperately need , and I be determined to get to that 1 . 5 million figure . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s warm word about improve affordable housing availability . do she agree that the affordability of housing be closely related to the bill that people have to pay — energy bill in particular ? will she ensure that all new social housing from this stage forward be build to the high possible standard of energy efficiency , to save people ' s bill ? again , we have be look at how we build safe , secure , energy - efficient home that bring down people ' s energy bill . the previous Government see energy bill go up really high . we be introduce great british Energy so that we can bring bill down , and be build the home that people desperately need . I be sure that the House agree that affordable housing be important . however , my experience in Leicester South be that all too often it be provide in new development , as home for shared ownership or as similar housing product , which be out of reach for the poor in my community . what my community really need be more social rent house . what be the Secretary of State do to promote the construction of social rent home , as oppose to other affordable housing product ? I agree with the hon . member that we need more social home . that be why we have be put more into the affordable home programme . we have make it absolutely clear that under section 106 notice , which he mention , home need to be affordable ; that be why we have put affordability test in the NPPF . we want to ensure that people have those home , and we want to build the next generation of council and social housing — and we will . I call the shadow Minister . we can see that after just five month , the Government ' s target of 1 . 5 million new home lie in tatter . the National Housing Federation say that the Government will miss their target by 475 , 000 without more grant — last week the Housing Minister say the same — and now labour - run South Tyneside council say that the plan be " wholly unrealistic " , with other Labour council agree . be it not time for the Government to admit defeat , come back with a deliverable plan and provide the sector with the certainty that it need to deliver more social home across the country ? the hon . Member have forget that his Government fail to meet their housing target every single time . the Government be commit to build 1 . 5 million home over this Parliament . under the Tories , house building plummet as they bow to pressure from their Back Benchers to scrap local housing target . we be bring back mandatory housing target . the Chancellor have put more money into the affordable home programme , and we will build those home . the hon . member do not know my history and how I work . planning Reform what recent progress her Department have make on planning reform . what change her Department be make to the national planning policy framework . what recent progress her Department have make on planning reform . what change her Department be make to the national planning policy framework . as hon . member will be aware , we consult on propose change to the national planning policy framework and other change to the planning system between 30 July and 24 September . my official and I have be analyse the over 10 , 000 response receive , with a view to publish a Government response before the end of the year . we also intend to bring forward the planning and infrastructure Bill , announce in the King ' s Speech , early next year . many young family would love to live in my beautiful constituency of North East Derbyshire , but unfortunately we just do not have the housing for they . could the Minister assure I that our planning reform will enable we to get the right housing in the right place with the right amenity , to complement the beautiful constituency ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . the Government be determined to increase rate of house building in order to address the housing crisis and boost economic growth , but we be equally committed to improve the quality and sustainability of the home and neighbourhood that be build during our period in office . in the aforementioned NPPF consultation , we propose a series of change to realise that ambition , include golden rule to ensure that development in the green belt be in the public interest , and a vision - lead approach to transport planning . the dangerous propose reform to the NPPF be among the many thing that the Labour Government have rush through in the past five month . how will those reform ensure that village such as Kings Langley , and South West Hertfordshire , retain their individual character and identity , and do not have their green space re - banded as grey belt , concrete over and absorb into an ever - increase Greater London ? we be not go to concrete over the green belt . the Government be commit to preserve the green belt , which have serve England ' s town and city well over many decade , but we have to move away from the previous Government ' s approach to it , which be to allow land in it to regularly be release in a haphazard matter , often for speculative development that do not meet local housing need . this Government be commit to take a smart , more strategic approach to green - belt land designation and release , so that we can build more home in the right place and secure additional public benefit through the operation of our golden rule . my constituency be fortunate enough to have a number of potential project that be ripe for investment , include the Port of Workington and energy project for new nuclear and other kind of clean energy . they be essential project for economic growth , but to get they go we need major planning reform , not just for housing but for infrastructure project . do the Minister agree on the urgent need for plan reform for infrastructure , and that any legislation that we bring forward must be comprehensive , so that we can remove all the obstacle that stand between we and get build ? it will not surprise my hon . friend to hear that I wholeheartedly agree . the delivery of critical national infrastructure be essential for economic growth , accelerate the UK ' s effort towards clean power by 2030 , and energy independence . the Bill in question will include old measure to streamline the delivery of infrastructure and new home . furthermore , our forthcoming 10 - year infrastructure strategy will provide a strategic road map for how we plan for future need and support our commitment by make timely decision on national infrastructure . under the housing target , Hinckley and Bosworth will see a 59 % increase in housing . North West Leicestershire will see it go up by 74 % , but Leicester city , where there be brownfield and infrastructure , will see it fall by 31 % . that be compound by the fact that the Liberal Democrat - run borough council in Hinckley and Bosworth do not have an up - to - date local plan . give that there be speculative development in Hinckley and Bosworth , will the Minister consider strengthen neighbourhood plan ? we know that they deliver more housing , provide protection for people locally and have buy - in from community , yet the council suffer without an up - to - date one . the hon . Gentleman will know that we be leave in place the protection on neighbourhood planning . he be mistaken if he be suggest that we be skew development towards rural area . the propose standard method , which we consult on , significantly boost expectation across city region . indeed , across mayoral combine authority area , it would see target grow by more than 30 % . local plan be the good way for community to control development in their area . I be sure that he will agree that Hinckley and Bosworth borough council need an up - to - date local plan in place . perhaps he can work with I to ensure that that be the case . I call the shadow Minister . minister brief the medium over a week ago about plan for local government reorganisation and devolution . when do the Government plan to set they before the House , so that member represent area across the country can take a view ? I be not sure how that relate to planning reform , which be the subject of the question , but my hon . friend the Minister for Local Government will set out in due course how our plan for devolution will be take forward . apology if there be confusion ; I be expect to come in on question 4 . [ interruption . ] I be glad to hear it . many area of the country stand to lose million of pound from the scrapping of the rural service grant — one of many local government funding stream that be expect to change . when will our council , and this House , know the full impact of the financial change , so that any reorganisation , devolution , or change to local plan and other council strategy can be deliver with full knowledge of the impact that the change will have on council ' on the ability to lead locally ? full detail of the provisional settlement will be set out in the come week . devolution agreement : somerset what discussion she have have with local government representative on potential future devolution agreement in Somerset . in July , the Deputy Prime Minister invite place without a devolution agreement , include Somerset , to come forward with proposal for their area , in order to gauge the approach and form be consider across the country . we welcome Somerset ' s support for this initiative , and look forward to hear its view on the imminent White Paper on english devolution , which will be release shortly . my constituent have have to endure the Liberal Democrats preside over the transition from two level of council , which work — they balance their book — to a unitary council that be on the brink of bankruptcy . can the Minister assure the House that no new council reform will be force on unwilling area , and that local opinion will be at the forefront of his decision ? I think we have all have to endure Liberal Democrats , so I can reflect on that . we be in constant dialogue with local council on our twin - pronged approach . one prong be devolution and make sure that we push power out of this place and into local community . the other be reorganisation in case where council recognise that it deliver more effective and efficient local government . the Department be keen to hear the conversation that local area be have on that . we now come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . I hope that you will endure we , Mr Speaker . Dorset council , which cover half my constituency , have agree to work with Somerset and Wiltshire — all unitary council — on a devolution arrangement , but resident be already raise concern that top - down reorganisation will take decision far away from their home and community . they be worried about what a mayoral combine authority might do to they . what assurance can the Minister give that the town and parish council , on which resident rely so heavily , will not be expect to keep unitary council afloat , and that my resident will not see back - door council tax rise as a result of the change ? Central Government have say to local government that we want to reset the relationship and work as partner in power , and it be not unreasonable to expect that council will do the same at a local level and will work together in partnership . we see that across the country : local council work in partnership with their parish and town council in the interest of their community . whether or not reorganisation take place , we expect that to continue . Homelessness Reduction what step her Department be take to support council in reduce homelessness . what progress her Department have make on end rough sleeping . what step her Department be take to support council in reduce homelessness . we be take action to tackle the root cause of homelessness . funding for homelessness service be increase next year by £ 233 million , take the total spend to almost £ 1 billion in 2025 - 26 . we be also abolish no - fault eviction and will deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . over the past two year , we have witness a staggering 50 % increase in homelessness in Blackpool , underline the urgent need for support in our community . Blackpool ' s homelessness partnership , through which the council work with the third sector and local charity , have do outstanding work to prevent homelessness , but we need more support . what step will the Minister take to support and strengthen local effort to ensure immediate relief and long - term solution for some of the most vulnerable in our society ? this Government have already make £ 10 million of additional funding available to local authority , include Blackpool , to tackle rough sleeping pressure this winter , and we be develop a long - term , cross - departmental strategy . the £ 547 million rough sleep initiative will continue to support local authority across England by fund tailor rough sleeping service , which include funding of £ 313 , 000 for Blackpool borough council in 2024 - 25 . as a result of the Localism Act 2011 , introduce by the Conservative party , the ringfence around homelessness funding be remove . due to that , and despite the good work that the Government be do on fund homelessness service , Tory - lead Devon county council be consult on cut its entire homelessness support budget , which would have a devastating impact on people and on the city of Exeter . do the Minister agree that council should really invest that money in homelessness service and not squirrel it away in other pot across the council ? we be absolutely focused on tackle homelessness and rough sleeping , and their root cause . the previous Government leave local authority in a dire condition . the autumn Budget announce £ 4 billion of additional funding for local authority and service , and funding for homelessness service be increase next year , but I will look into the point my hon . friend raise . we be determined that wherever people live they be protect from the risk of homelessness and rough sleeping . although in my constituency we have the City of Wolverhampton council ' s homelessness prevention strategy , which have have some success in tackle homelessness , last week I be contact by a constituent flee domestic violence and find it difficult to get permanent social housing for herself and her daughter . Crisis , the national homelessness charity , report a 15 % increase in child live in temporary accommodation — the high on record — and we know that issue such as substance misuse and lack of proper employment also cause homelessness . will the Minister please confirm how her Department be help council to deal with the societal and economic issue that can cause homelessness ? my hon . friend raise really important issue about how multiple underlying cause can drive people into homelessness . we be determined to tackle the root cause , which be why the Deputy Prime Minister be chair the inter - departmental taskforce on homelessness and rough sleeping . the previous Labour Government take action , and cut homelessness and rough sleeping . we be determined to ensure that we tackle the underlie issue , which mean reform the support housing that victim of domestic violence need and ensure that local government work with mayor and national Government to tackle these issue . we be absolutely committed to do that . Wokingham borough council be under intense financial pressure , make the crucial task of reduce homelessness a significant challenge . initial estimate be that the Budget ' s new funding for local government will be more than swallow up by cost increase in employer ' national insurance contribution and the national minimum wage , let alone the ever - grow demand for statutory service . will the Minister meet I and the leader and chief executive of our council , so we can discuss the future of its finance and what we can do to reduce homelessness ? I be aware that the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution , my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , have already meet the hon . Gentleman , but I be happy to look at the specific issue he raise in relation to homelessness . to reassure he , we be work across Government on these very issue , look at how different agenda can be bring together to tackle the deep - root issue affect homelessness and rough sleeping , and how good we can support local area . I look forward to engage member from across the House as we develop that very important cross - departmental strategy to tackle the deep - root cause of homelessness and rough sleeping . rural homelessness have rise by 40 % in just the last five year . in our community , that be massively feed by the fact that average house price be about 12 time above local income , as well as insufficient local housing . do the Minister agree that we need to give planning power to local authority and national park , so that they can designate exclusively for social rent housing and development that therefore can not be use for expensive housing for which , frankly , there be no need ? as I say , we have an ambitious plan for affordable and social housing , which fit within the Government ' s commitment to build 1 . 5 million home . it be vital to make supply available . we be put in funding , include £ 500 million for the affordable home programme , which will build 5 , 000 property . the hon . Gentleman be aware of the work we be do to ensure that there be a proper and effective national planning framework to go hand in hand with local work with local authority . I hope he can see that we be very much work in the spirit of ensure that we increase supply , provide affordable and social housing , and tackle the root cause that need to be address . some 18 , 000 home with planning permission across Somerset be wait to be build , but nutrient neutrality issue , flood risk and the national shortage of planner be prevent or delay the delivery of those much - need home . what discussion have the Minister have with Cabinet colleague about fix the issue and ensure that appropriate home be build to help reduce the strain cause by the lack of housing in Somerset ? I can reassure the hon Lady that the Government be address those issue and will take appropriate action . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and other Ministers be very much engage with this important agenda . I call the shadow Minister . sadly , homelessness be project to rise by 27 % this year . the Government ' s broken promise on national insurance rise have wreak havoc across the charitable sector , with 110 national homelessness charity warn the Chancellor that £ 50 million to £ 60 million will be lose in the sector and Homeless Link call the increase " the final nail in the coffin " for the sector . will the Minister listen to that warning , and what will she be do to convey these concern to the Chancellor and change this disastrous policy ? I welcome the shadow Minister to his position . may I remind he of the record of his party in government ? in those 14 year , 123 , 000 household , include 150 , 000 child , be live in temporary accommodation — not to mention the scandal of rough sleeping and the death cause by that Government ' s neglect . we be invest to tackle those issue and the mess that the hon . Gentleman ' s party leave behind . we have already announce £ 233 million in the Budget ; Conservative Members need to decide whether to back we on the investment we be make to clean up the mess that he and they have leave behind . Departmental Office Closures what consultation her Department have undertake with staff on the decision to close six office . my Department have set a workforce and location strategy that propose to retain 16 of the exist 22 departmental office . this will result in six office close over the next two year . staff engagement on the announcement be ongoing , and consultation on implement the strategy be begin this month . my Department will continue to engage with the trade union and consult with they before the office closure proposal be finalise and implement . the Department will not make any compulsory redundancy and will continue to help the colleague and staff affect to work effectively in their role . there have be a drive across Government Departments to increase the number of hour that civil servant spend work in the office , but the propose closure in Newcastle mean that staff work and live in the area who can not work from home will face a 40 - mile commute to the office in Darlington . can the Secretary of State assure I that there will be an equality impact assessment before any decision be make , to ensure that the need of those with protect characteristic and caring responsibility be fully consider ? as my hon . friend know , I be a big advocate of flexible working and make sure that we support our colleague . the Department prepare an initial equality impact assessment in advance of the announcement of the location strategy , which will be develop during the consultation with the staff and the trade union to inform the mitigation that will support the staff who be affect . many of we fight very hard to ensure that the Department have a location in the city of Wolverhampton , and I think that all of we , on both side of the House , recognise how important it be to get civil servant out of London and right across the country . how be the Secretary of State look at develop and grow the base in Wolverhampton as part of her wide strategy ? the strategy will create a more coherent office estate that enable strong office community and transparent career pathway for progression , and we will continue to be represent across each of the region and nation of the United Kingdom . Leasehold Reform what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . for far too many leaseholder , the reality of home ownership have fall woefully short of the dream . over the course of this Parliament , the Government be determined to honour the commitment make in our manifesto and to do what be necessary to finally bring the feudal leasehold system to an end . on 21 November , I make a write ministerial statement to update the House on the step that the Government intend to take to implement the reform to the leasehold system that be already in statue , and to progress the wide set of reform that be necessary to end the system for good . I recently meet people live on the redevelop Blackberry Hill hospital site in Fishponds , and they tell I about the excessive and unfair leasehold charge that they face from their property management company , FirstPort . what assurance can the Minister provide that this Government will , once and for all , free people from the leaseholder system and end the rip - off fee ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the Government be acutely aware that far too many leaseholder across the country be routinely subject to unjustified permission and administration fee , unreasonable or extortionate charge , and onerous condition that be impose with little or no consultation . that be not what home ownership should entail , and it be why we must bring the system to an end in this Parliament . as I set out in the write ministerial statement to which I refer early , the Government will act to protect leaseholder from abuse and poor service at the hand of unscrupulous manage agent , such as the one my hon . Friend mention , by strengthen regulation in this area . may I thank the Minister for the answer that he have give I in this Chamber , and in a write answer at the end of October , on the plight of leaseholder who have extra apartment level graft on above the block in which they live ? I appreciate that he do not want to alter the planning presumption in favour of grant permission to build add - on extra level , but will he at least consider outlaw any attempt by freeholder to pass on the cost of botched extension to the poor old leaseholder , who have suffer enough by have such extension build over their head in the first place ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . he will recognise — I know he do — that those type of development be the result of the expansion of permit development right that be take forward after 2013 . there be issue with the quality of some of the work that have come through that stream . on the specific issue he raise , perhaps it might be a good idea if we sit down together . I will happily discuss with he how we can protect leaseholder from those type of variable service charge increase . Battersea be home to a large number of leaseholder , many of whom have have to face astronomically high service charge from what we all know be unscrupulous management agent . I be very pleased that this Government will protect leaseholder , give that the last Government fail to do so , but be the Minister willing to meet I and some of my leaseholder so that he can share labour ' s plan to protect they ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be more than happy to sit down with she , or to join a call or meet with leaseholder in her constituency , in order to discuss the Government ' s plan to end the system in this Parliament . we fully appreciate the wish of leaseholder across the country for we to act with speed . as the ministerial statement set out , we also have get to balance that with the need to get these reform right . the serious and specific flaw that be leave to we by the previous Government in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 be a warning about what happen when reform in this area be not do properly . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to continue our work to address issue with the current leasehold system . however , where we be build new town , such as Sherford in my constituency , resident , like other in new build , face council tax and service charge , with no likelihood of that change . what plan do the Minister have to address the impact of service charge in new town as part of leasehold reform ? I think the hon . Lady be refer to the pressure place on residential freeholder as a result of some of the management estate charge that come through that route . there be provision in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act to provide residential freeholder with additional protection , and we need to bring those measure into force . we also then need to look more widely at how we reduce the prevalence of private and mixed - tenure housing estate , which be the fundamental root of the problem . devolution : local Communities what step she be take to far devolve power to local community . the english devolution White Paper , due by the end of the year , set out how we will transfer power from Westminster to people who know their area well . the White Paper will also announce measure that will give local place and communitie great control over shape their area . library , pub , football , community centre — these be the thing that make up a community , but in so many place they have vanish over the last 14 year . I be delighted to hear plan of a community right to buy . what work be the Government do to ensure that local authority and community group have the guidance and expertise need to utilise this powerful new right once it be realise ? in there be the point about devolution and localism : structure matter and the framework matter , but in the end it be about get the power out to the community who have skin in the game . that be why we want to ensure that the community right to buy provide an effective mean for community across the country to take ownership of asset that be important to they . we be consider what further support and guidance we will provide to community and local authority to support they in this measure , and I know that the Minister for local growth , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , be fully engage in this endeavour . many of my constituent would welcome further power be devolve to their local community . they be as keen as mustard to see the right home in the right place , particularly social housing , but one of the thing stop social housing be deliver be the viability calculation that be undertake by developer , who use they to say that only expensive house can be build . be the Government look at review the use of viability calculation ? that be some way from community ownership , but the devolution White Paper be one of a number of measure that we be take and it will have a clear community strand . this do not sit in isolation , however ; it be part of the wide reform that be take place to ensure that community , local authority and Government work in partnership . Community Ownership of Local Assets what step her Department be take to support community ownership of local asset . the community ownership fund have empower community group across the UK to take long - term , sustainable ownership of asset that benefit their local community , and I know that colleague across the House be eagerly await further news on round 4 of the community ownership fund , which will be with they in due course . beyond this , through the English Devolution Bill , we will introduce a strong new right to buy for value community asset , which will help local people to acquire value community space when they come up for sale , keep they in the hand of the local community . I recently meet the friend of the Flying Saucer pub , a community group in my constituency who be work to bring this asset of community value back into local hand . will the Minister assure my constituent that the Government be commit to support the retention of community asset such as this , and will he agree to meet I to discuss the Flying Saucer campaign and the broad challenge that community face in reclaim and retain such asset ? now then , Mr Speaker , you know there be no great enthusiast in this place for a local pub than I — [ interruption . ] and indeed for fly saucer . these be exactly the type of asset of community value we be talk about , and exactly the sort of asset that will be in the scope of the new community right to buy . of course I would be keen to meet my hon . friend and the campaigner on that issue . East Devon District Council have declare Seaton hospital an asset of community value and be await news of round 4 of the community ownership fund to see whether we might get funding from that source . in the meantime , NHS Property Services might be seek to remove part of that hospital . can the Minister ask his colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to prevent that ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that question , although I be sad to hear it . the asset of community value status really ought to give a degree of protection , but I be happy to talk about that far . as I have say , round 4 of the community ownership fund will be come forward very shortly . Social Housing : service charge what assessment she have make of the potential impact of service charge on resident in social housing . the Government recognise the considerable financial strain that rise service charge be place on leaseholder , include those whose landlord be a social housing provider . as the hon . Gentleman will know , variable service charge must , by law , be reasonable . their reasonableness can already be challenge at the appropriate tribunal and the housing ombudsman can investigate complaint about the fairness of service charge make by share owner , as well as tenant of social housing landlord , but the Government be explore what more can be do to give leaseholder the protection that they need from unaffordable service charge increase . many leaseholder in my constituency live in property where Clarion housing association be the freeholder . this year ' s service charge be on average almost 50 % high than the original estimate and for some on the High Path estate it be over £ 1 , 000 more . do the Minister agree that leaseholder deserve transparency , not shock bill ? what more can be do to give the housing ombudsman the power to demand compensation payment ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that supplementary question and assure he that I share his deep concern about the pressure on the household budget of share owner in his constituency , and other across the country , as a result of rise variable service charge . in addition to the route to redress I have just set out , I draw his and the House ' s attention to the measure in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 that be design to drive up the transparency of service charge to make they more easily challengeable if leaseholder consider they unreasonable . further detail about our plan to bring those and other provision in the Act into force can be find in the write ministerial statement make on 21 November . as the Minister will know , social housing provider and council operate within a regulated service charge regime that do not allow they to make a profit , and the Housing Ombudsman Service be there for any complaint . will the Minister consider bring in a similar regime for the private sector ? I have set out the route to redress that be already available and our intention to switch on the measure in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act , but I be more than happy to sit down and have a conversation with my hon . friend about what more protection leaseholder in this space require . local Growth Funding Allocation what step her Department be take to allocate local growth funding accord to need . what step her Department be take to allocate local growth funding accord to need . we be intent on move towards allocate , multi - year funding settlement target at need . we will set out this refresh vision for local growth funding in the multi - year spending review , work with local leader to drive growth in the area that need it most , and end the plethora of competitive pot . I be very pleased to hear the Minister ' s reply . the last Government waste local authority ' time and money by make they bid for handout from central Government . in North Warwickshire , so much time be spend prepare numerous bid for the new swimming pool and leisure centre that our community desperately need , only for vital fund to go to place without such high level of need . under this Labour Government , will the Minister ensure that local authority receive the fair funding they require to deliver the local service they know their community need ? my hon . friend make an important point about the harm do by that " beauty parade " funding model , which be inefficient and create so much disappointment . what follow will be much well . seaside town such as Rhyl and Colwyn Bay in my constituency have much in common with our north - west neighbour . the 2019 " future of Seaside town " report highlight the need to avoid a one - size - fit - all approach , while recognise common issue . how do the Government plan to use national funding stream while ensure local delivery to deliver long - term growth in our seaside town ? that be another important argument for why we need long - term , allocative settlement . it be my hon . friend , her local authority , her local resident and her community who know Rhyl . they be the expert , and they should have the flexibility to break the one - size - fit - all model to make thing work for themselves . I declare an interest as a Stratford - on - Avon district councillor . do the Minister agree that , in two - tier local government area , district and borough council be well place as the most local form of government to allocate fund from the UK share prosperity fund , give their proximity to community and their deep understanding of local need ? the hon . Lady tempt I to discuss the share prosperity funding , which community will receive shortly . I have to say that my enthusiasm be for all tier of government in local area — whether that be metro mayor , upper - tier authority , borough and district or indeed parish and town council — to come together in share interest to improve their community . I thank the Minister for his answer ; it be always good to hear some positivity . we in Northern Ireland be still wait on share prosperity funding . there would be some benefit for my constituency ; Strangford have coastal issue such as seaside improvement and coastal erosion . have the Minister have an opportunity to talk to the relevant department in Northern Ireland to see how central government could help we back home ? I be always careful not to disappoint the hon . Gentleman , give that at the High Street Heroes award for Retail NI last year , I award the win high street to Ballymena rather than Newtownards , and I be not sure he be ever go to forgive I . I assure he that I be have conversation with ministerial counterpart in the Northern Ireland Executive . we be also talk to local authority and some of the group that have be deliver project , such as Go succeed . those conversation be ongoing as we speak , and the full answer about the allocation will be come shortly . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . today I publish our remediation acceleration plan , a step change in our response to the building safety crisis . without decisive action , the risk and the hardship of unsafe cladding could be with we until 2040 . that can not go on . the plan set out how we will fix building fast , identify remain building that be still at risk and ensure resident be support through the remediation process . I recently hear from a constituent with three young child who have apply for over 80 property , but be still wait for social housing . what step will my right hon . friend take to speed up the planning process specifically for social housing ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the need for more social housing . we have commit to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation , and I have propose change to the national planning policy framework to support that . we have also announce additional funding for the affordable home programme . I call the shadow Secretary of State . at whose request do the Secretary of State call in the planning application for the chinese super - embassy ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . despite he be on the Opposition Benches , we seem to have a lot in common : we both come to Parliament in the 2015 intake , represent constituency in the north and think the Tories deserve to lose the last general election . we take planning decision in the normal way . I use to have ginger hair as well ! may I give the right hon . Lady the answer to my question ? it be the Foreign Secretary . in opposition , the now Home Secretary warn that the chinese Government be " attempt to influence Parliament " , and try " to interfere in our democracy and undermine our security . " — [ Official Report , 11 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 667 . ] those risk be all heighten by this development . be this government so desperate to counteract the disastrous Budget and their own growth - wreck trade union Bill that they be now willing to override national security , national interest and the sensible concern of their Home Secretary by kowtow to the chinese Government ? we have get record investment into the UK through our international business summit . I be proud of our Employment Rights Bill , which be pro - worker and pro - employer . it will reward good employer and put money back into the high street . this Government take national security very seriously and will continue to do so . give that the mayoral council and leader ’ council be be contemplate as part of the english devolution Bill , what step be the Deputy Prime Minister take to ensure that Cornwall ' s voice be hear in Westminster , after be subsume for far too long ? it be a pleasure to meet my hon . friend and colleague to talk about devolution in Cornwall . he will know that we have agree to a non - mayoral devolution deal for Cornwall as a first step . we recognise the distinct culture , history and identity of the cornish people . this important step will allow we to unlock deep devolution in Cornwall and , in time , we hope it will allow Cornwall to take its seat at the Council of the Nations and Regions . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . my constituent , Dom , purchase a high - rise building that , it now transpire , do not meet building regulation on combustible material use in the early 2000 . his building be be remediate , but the material be be allow to remain , lock in the risk for the long term and send insurance premium sky high . why be the Government not investigate historic non - compliance ? what be be do to protect homeowner from unfair loss and sky - high insurance premium ? we be clear that dangerous building need to be remediate . that be why the good thing that any building owner can do be get into a scheme today to unlock the funding and meet those duty they have as build owner . when they do that and when they be approve for the grant , they would have an inspection at that point , so I be surprised to hear that dangerous defect would be lock in , as the hon . Lady say , but I be interested in have a conversation with she to understand that far . a block of 50 flat in my constituency be build by the public sector 60 year ago and have now be find to have a major structural fault that will cost over £ 1 million to fix . the flat owner be also share freeholder of the block and can not afford the cost of the repair or to sell their flat . as it be an unusual situation , will the Minister meet I and the resident owner to consider a way forward before the situation get critical ? yes , of course . the issue of clad defect be exceptionally important and , indeed , the subject of a debate later today , but so be non - clad defect and protect leaseholder from their impact . give that the Government be already do another relaunch , would the Secretary of State reconsider the fairness of housing target , whereby poor delivery by Labour in London be award with low target to the detriment of area such as South West Hertfordshire ? perhaps the hon . Gentleman do not hear my previous response . the propose new standard method , which we consult on , significantly boost expectation across our city region . in mayoral combine authority area , it would see target grow by more than 30 % , match the ambition of our local leader . the Government be consult on the future of pan - regional partnership such as our own Great South - West , which cover Cornwall , Devon , Somerset and Dorset . business I speak to value the ability of our region to speak with one voice on economic issue to Government and to investor , which be important for our region . would the Minister meet I and business to discuss the future of prp ? I thank my hon . friend for take the time to meet I to talk about devolution and growth in that region . we be absolutely committed to ensure that growth be feel in every part of the country , and that require partnership from central Government , local government and the business community . I would be more than happy to meet he to talk about how we can do that go forward . in July , overseas voter — british national — be able to vote for member of Parliament in this House , but in the absence of overseas constituency , too many be be tell that the MP of their last address can not represent they because of the rule about member represent only constituent . can we get a letter out to all mps provide clarity on the issue ? the hon . member will be aware that the Electoral Commission have publish a report on the general election , and we will consider its finding and will come back in due course on this matter and other . the overheated housing market in York be be fuel by the 2 , 193 short - term holiday let in the city . I have a private member ' s Bill on the subject , so will the Minister work with I as I co - produce the Bill to address this problem in York ? my hon . friend and I have discuss this matter many time . she be well aware of the Government ' s approach to tackle excessive concentration of short - term let and second home . I be of course more than happy to discuss the issue with she again in the future . Most party in this House , represent a collective total of 500 mp , agree that first past the post be damaging trust in politic , and 64 % of the public would like to see change . do the Secretary of State agree that a national commission for electoral reform could address that , as recommend by the all - party parliamentary group ? no . after 14 year of cut to local government , we see the consequence across council area , include to my council of Medway , which suffer a 91 % cut in direct support grant , couple with a financial inheritance that accord to the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy be " grave " . will the Minister agree to meet I and Medway council colleague and finance officer to discuss the support available after 14 year of austerity cut by the Conservatives ? we be work constructively with Medway council as part of our framework to support council in the most difficulty . this Government be clear that the process will be collaborative and supportive and , on that basis , we be more than happy to meet to discuss it far . council up and down the land , but particularly in the south - east of England , be frustrate by the high level of undeveloped consent . it be perfectly possible that the Secretary of State will find that , come the next election , her target have be consent but be nowhere near build . will she consider allow council to have a 10 - year housing supply number that include undeveloped consent , so that when the number be reach , developer have no choice but to build ? we take step , in the propose reform to the consultation on the national planning policy framework , to encourage build - out — not least through encourage mixed - use development . however , we be reflect on what more can be do to encourage that and to ensure that site be build out in a timely manner . I have a constituent — a young , pregnant woman — who be recently release from hospital and house in a local hotel that be contract to house the homeless . she be petrify from the first night . she sleep badly because man be bang on her door all night , and she be surround by drug use . she feel safe sleeping rough on the second night . too many of my vulnerable constituent in Stoke - on - Trent South be be house in accommodation that do not cater to their complex need . will the Minister update the House on his work to end the practice of shift homeless constituent from one area to another to be house in totally inappropriate — order . I be sorry , but I have to get everybody in . it be not just about your question . I be very sorry to hear about the experience of my hon . friend ' s constituent . I refer to my previous comment ; I be very happy to meet and engage with she on her work to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping . if Wiltshire embrace the opportunity to join Dorset and Somerset in an elect mayoral authority , will there be local election all - out in Wiltshire next spring ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question on devolution . we be absolutely ready to talk to any area that be keen to take on devolution , particularly a mayoral combine authority . any decision on whether election do or do not take place will be part of future consideration . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement of the deadline . however , the National Audit Office report publish last month show that the majority of building affect by clad have not be identify . will the Secretary of State go far by deliver a more join - up approach , so that we can identify and remediate those property as soon as possible ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for that question . it will probably not surprise she to hear that the first question I ask when I become Minister with responsibility for building safety be , " how many building need remediate ? " I do not think that it will surprise she or colleague to hear how astonished I be to find out that between 4 , 000 and 7 , 000 building be unidentified after seven year — which show the previous Government ' s intent . we be go to identify they , work out what their risk be and get they remediate . I welcome the Government ' s commitment , in response to my write parliamentary question , to a consultation on end fleecehold . however , my constituent in Markhams Close and across Basildon and Billericay just want to know when that will take place . as I set out in response to a previous question , we will consult on how to end the prevalence of new fleecehold estate , and we will , in the short term , ensure that resident on exist estate have the protection they need against unfair management charge . I be delighted that the Government ' s Mayoral Council be hand back power to local community . we be already see the impact of that . Claire Ward , the Mayor of the east midland , attend the first meeting in October . she be lead the way : the east midland be one of the youth trailblazer region grant £ 5 million of Government funding to help young people into work or training . what work be minister do to give those who contribute to our country a say in how it be govern ? the forthcoming english devolution White Paper will set out clearly our top - to - bottom redistribution of power , and how we include and engage people at a local level to ensure that they can actively participate in the development of their area . there be grow concern among constituent that planning decision be be sweep aside because of the Government ' s new planning reform . what assurance can the Minister give that there will be meaningful engagement between constituent and their local planning authority , and that decision will be respect ? as I have say , the good way to shape development in any give area be to have an up - to - date local plan in place . where such plan be not in place , local authority leave themselves open to the presumption in favour of sustainable development , and to development via appeal , so I encourage the hon . gentleman to ensure that his local authority have an up - to - date plan in place . that be the good way for resident to have control . we want more resident engagement upstream in those local plan . in five year , the cost of West Sussex county council ' s Oracle upgrade have rise from £ 2 . 6 million to £ 28 million . be that the kind of contract mismanagement that the Office for Local Government can look into ? we be currently in the process of review oversight , accountability , and check and balance to make sure that they be in place and fit for purpose , and that the early warning system work . More detail on that will follow in the english devolution White Paper before Christmas . labour ' s housing target desperately need reform to take into account land availability around protect landscape . the Government have say that the answer be the costly planning appeal system . do the Minister think that be a good use of taxpayer ' money ? local plan have to go through examination for a determination of whether they be sound . hard constraint , such as the type that the hon . Gentleman have just mention , will be take into account when those plan be test , even under the new framework . the Government ' s commitment to build more affordable home be both welcome and urgent . however , we also need to ensure that register provider be willing and able to take on section 106 affordable home when they be build . in recent year , a combination of factor have mean that too many home stand empty . will my hon . friend say what step can be take to tackle the section 106 stand stock scandal ? we recognise that this be a grow problem across the country that be have a severe impact on affordable housing supply . my hon . friend will not have to wait long to find out what the Government propose to do to bear down on this problem . the propose planning reform mean that town such as Tring will see up to 40 % more housing build on the green belt . what assurance can the Minister give that sacrifice that countryside will not have a negative impact on the community , and that we will have infrastructure before the occupation of home and truly affordable home for people in the local community ? we want to put in place a planning system that be gear towards meet housing need in full . that be a clear difference between we and the conservative party . in bring forward its local plan and look at development , every local area should look first at densification — that is , what it can do on brownfield land . it should only have to review green - belt land if it can not meet the need in that way or via cross - boundary strategic planning . last week , my local council announce the propose closure of the much - love Prince of Wales theatre in Cannock . despite the council ' s financial pressure , local people do not want that theatre to become collateral damage . will the Minister meet I to see what could be do to explore community ownership and give our theatre the bright future that thousand of my constituent want to see ? as my hon . friend know , I be very keen on community ownership , and I be sad to hear about the situation in his community . I would definitely steer he towards the " asset of community value " process in the immediate term , and of course , I would be very happy to meet he and campaigner on this issue . non - qualify leaseholder status get slap on a property in perpetuity long after the require safety work be complete . that status mean that it be almost impossible to acquire a mortgage — solicitor advise very strongly that purchaser steer clear of such property , which be very often flat — and the status be inherit by successive owner in perpetuity . have the Minister consider what this status do for the housing crisis ? I completely understand the challenge . draw a line between qualifying and non - qualify leaseholder — between people who own a property and therefore suffer from thing that have be beyond their control , and landlord that be business and therefore have multiple asset — will always be a difficult job . at the edge , where the boundary between qualifying and non - qualifying become blur , there be some difficult case . as a new government , we be commit to work with people to understand well how we can go forward on that . as for the substantive point on where the liability should lie , it be about find the right balance between those who build the building and those who live in it . [ Official Report , 4 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , 3wc . ] Correction will the Minister commit to work with local authority to use new power to run high street rental auction , so that we can end the affront of empty shop this Christmas ? yes . high street rental auction , which be launch at the weekend , be a brilliant way — [ interruption . ] indeed ; they be part of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , which I be sad to say the previous Government do not commence — as part of the war on woke , I believe . nevertheless , we have commence those auction . they be a tool in the hand of local community ; if there be vacant property , let we get they bring back into use . I represent Tunbridge Wells , and just over the boundary in Wealden district , a large housing development be propose . Wealden will get the house , but the infrastructure burden will fall particularly on my constituent who live in Tunbridge Wells . will the Secretary of State update I on the reform to the NPPF ? what be be do about this problem of cross - boundary infrastructure ? in the nppf , we set out the clear direction of travel towards the universal coverage of strategic planning across the whole of England . we have an Adjournment debate on that just last week . we be determined to put in place the mechanism that will allow effective cross - boundary co - operation to ensure that the right infrastructure and housing growth take place . Chagos Islands : UK - US Defence Relationship ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on the impact of the Government ' s Chagos negotiation on the UK - US defence relationship . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure this urgent question . the Secretary of State have ask I to respond on behalf of the Department . on 3 October , the UK and Mauritius reach an historic agreement to secure the important UK - US military base on Diego Garcia , which play a crucial role in regional and international security . the agreement secure the effective operation of the joint facility on Diego Garcia well into the next century . the agreement be strongly support by our close friend and ally , include the United States . it have be support by all relevant US Departments and agency , follow a rigorous scrutiny process . this base be a key part of UK - US defence relationship , as it enable the United Kingdom and the United States to support operation that demonstrate our share commitment to regional stability , provide a rapid response to crisis and counter some of the most challenging security threat we face . the President of the United States applaud the agreement . to quote he directly : " it be a clear demonstration that through diplomacy and partnership , country can overcome long - stand historical challenge to reach peaceful and mutually beneficial outcome . " several other country and organisation , include India , the African Union , the UN Secretary - General and other , have welcome and applaud this historic political agreement . our primary goal throughout these negotiation , which start over two year ago under the previous Government , be to protect the joint UK - US military base on Diego Garcia . there will be clear commitment in the treaty to robust security arrangement , include arrangement prevent the presence of foreign security force on the outer island , so that the base can continue to operate securely and effectively . the operation of the base will continue unchanged , with strong protection from malign influence . for the first time in 50 year , the base will be undisputed and legally secure . continued uncertainty would be a gift to our adversary . that be why the agreement have be welcome by all part of the US system , and other critical regional security partner . agree the deal now , on our term , mean that we be able to secure strong protection that will allow the base to operate as it have do . we look forward to engage with the upcoming US Administration on this and many other aspect of the UK - US special relationship . finally , hon . member can be reassure that the long - term protection of the base on Diego Garcia have be the share UK and US priority throughout , and this agreement secure its future . we would not have sign off on an agreement that compromise any of our security interest , or those of the US and our ally and partner . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . at a time when we face the most challenging military threat for year , surely our top priority should be to preserve the strong possible US - UK relation , give that this be so vital to our national security , yet it appear that the Government be seek to agree a deal surrender the sovereignty of the Chagos island before President Trump be formally in post . we know that the new US Administration be concerned about the Government ' s deal because presumptive nominee US Secretary of State Marco Rubio have say that the deal " pose a serious threat to our national security interest " . he have also suggest that " it would provide an opportunity for communist China to gain valuable intelligence on our naval support facility " . let we be clear : our military base on Diego Garcia be a vital strategic asset for the UK in the indian ocean , and it be critical to our presence and posture in the Indo - Pacific region . in particular , it be an especially important base for the United States , and we believe that anything that damage its defence posture , particularly in relation to China , also undermine our national security . we understand that the new Mauritius Government have now launch a review of the deal . will the Minister therefore confirm that the Government ' s policy really be to try to rush through their Chagos deal before President Trump ' s inauguration ? do he not see how that would be hugely disrespectful to the new Administration and President Trump ' s democratic mandate ? give that we now know it be common for the MOD to state the cost of overseas basis , will he be transparent and finally tell the House how much we will have to pay to rent back the vital military base that we currently own ? finally , although we would prefer the Government to cancel the whole deal , at the very least will the Minister pause any further ratification until the new US Administration be in place and the Mauritius Government have conclude their review ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and his strong focus on this matter . I think he have a bit of amnesia from when the Government he be a part of start these negotiation . they hold 11 round of negotiation , and it take a Labour Government to conclude they . we have do so in the good interest of our national security , and the national security concern of our close ally . it would not have be possible to secure a deal and the support of the United States if all part of the US security apparatus be not in support of it , and as a former Defence Minister , the hon . Gentleman will know that to be true , regardless of the politic he must play today . the hon . Gentleman ask two quick question . we intend to continue our dialogue with the new Mauritian Government and our friend in the United States . he will be aware , of course , that it be illegal under US law for we to engage directly with the new Administration until they come into place , but we will continue to have dialogue with our US and mauritian friend . I be surprised that as a former Defence Minister , the hon . Gentleman be ask about cost . he will know that it be usual for we to declare the operating and running cost of overseas basis , but it would compromise our operational security and long - term relationship if we be to declare the Government - to - government payment for overseas basis . we have declare the operational running cost of our overseas basis , and we will continue to do so in response to parliamentary question . detail the security payment for Government - to - government interaction be not something that this government do , and be not something that his Government do either . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . the UK - US base on Diego Garcia be of great significance for defence and have strategic international significance . step must be take to ensure that its legal status be secure in the future , and of course the voice of the Chagossians must be central in any future arrangement . it have be report that President - elect Trump have reservation about the propose treaty , and newly elect Prime Minister Ramgoolam of Mauritius have order a review into the treaty . what further representation have be make to both our partner to ensure that we have the support of our international partner ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the continue operation of Diego Garcia be in the interest of UK and US national security , and this deal secure that operation . I congratulate Dr Ramgoolam on his election . in a letter to the Prime Minister on 15 November , he note his commitment to complete the negotiation , and Jonathan Powell be in Mauritius this week to start that process . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we , and all those who care about the resolution of this issue , be deeply disappointed about the way we have be lead to this point , with 11 round of negotiation under the Conservatives , and more under the new Government . just four week ago , the Foreign Secretary present his deal to the House . now the new President - elect and the new Prime Minister of Mauritius be express doubt . be it not strike and shocking that it have unravel so quickly ? do the Minister agree that whatever happen next , it be vital that the voice of the Chagossians be finally inject into the process , and that they be able to fulfil their right of self - determination ? whatever lie ahead in these talk , the liberal Democrats have strongly argue that all treaty should come before the House before sign , and I believe that member of the Government , include two who be on the Front Bench today , support that in the past . will the Minister commit to allow meaningful opportunity for parliamentarian to examine the detailed proposal , include the necessary assurance on element of the deal relate to our national security , before anything be sign ? we will follow the normal process for treaty ratification , which be that after signature , the treaty will come before this House , with detail give to colleague and with the ability for full parliamentary scrutiny , as would be expect as part of the normal process . the hon . Gentleman be right to raise the Chagossians . my ministerial colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , who be sit next to I , have be meet chagossian community in the UK . he will continue to meet those community . this government deeply regret how they be treat and remove from the island originally . it be one reason why we have make the relationship with the Chagossians such an important part of the future of the island , as the Foreign Secretary have previously outline to the House . can the Minister confirm that the operation of the vital UK - US base on Diego Garcia will continue , completely unaffected by the term of this deal ? separately , will he confirm that our commitment to the Falkland Islands , to Gibraltar and to the right of the people there to self - determine remain completely unaffected by this deal ? as the first Minister from the new Government to visit the Falklands , I be able to say clearly that the Falkland Islands be british for as long as they would like to be . the message I give to the Gibraltarians be that Gibraltar be british for as long as the people of Gibraltar want it to be . I confirm to my hon . friend that this deal secure the future of the UK - US base on Diego Garcia . that be something that our US ally have support . which be more important for Britain ' s vital security : to have the approval of the outgoing american President , or the approval of the incoming one ? what be there to prevent China , with Mauritius ' s agreement , put listen outpost on other island that could compromise the security of Diego Garcia ? there be specific arrangement in the treaty that prevent any foreign power from put security apparatus or security force on any of the outgoing island . the right hon . Gentleman will be able to see that when the treaty come before the House . in relation to the support of the United States , we would not have sign an agreement if it be not support by our US friend . this deal secure the operation of the UK - US base on Diego Garcia well into the next century . I expect that when everyone look at the detail of the deal , they will back it too . Chagos belong to the Chagossians . a quarter of the global population of Chagos live within my constituency . I be aware of statement make by Ministers that they have meet representative of the chagossian community ; I do not know who those representative be , but I know of representative in my constituency who have not yet be consult . do the Minister agree that before any further dialogue take place , the Government should engage fully with the community representative in my constituency ? the Foreign Office Minister beside I , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth , have meet a range of representative from the chagossian community and will continue to do so as this process continue . I know that he would welcome a conversation with my hon . friend to make sure that that dialogue be as complete as it can be . first , may I ask , what be the rush ? why be the Minister in such a hurry to get this do ? may I suggest that it would be to the Government ' s advantage , if their case be so strong , to allow this House to debate the agree text in public before it be sign ? may I also suggest that it stretch incredulity for he to tell the House that there have be no discussion at all with the incoming American Administration ? can he at least tell the House what informal dialogue there be with the incoming Administration about what their view really be ? can he report that to the House , please ? as a long - stand Member of this House , the hon . Gentleman will be familiar with how treaty be debate and agree by this House . after signature , they come forward for ratification . this process be start a number of year ago by the Government that he support . eleven round of negotiation have take place . we have secure a deal that be in support of the UK and US base on Diego Garcia , which will continue to operate well into the next century . when he and other see the detail of the deal , I be sure they will back it . it be hard to imagine anything say from that Dispatch Box over the past five month that have survive contact with reality , and this be no different . in the tripartite relationship between the United States , the United Kingdom and Mauritius , two of those partner now have doubt about this arrangement , so what be the unseemly rush about ? in the tension between national security and the human right of the Chagossians , this Government , as usual , have manage to reconcile neither . I be not certain whether the SNP ' s record on national security really give the hon . member the platform that he be pretend to have on this one . I recognise , however , that he be try to make a serious point about the deal . when the deal be sign , it will come before the House in the usual way . that will allow parliamentarian of all party to look at the detail of the deal and take a judgment , and the House will vote in the usual way , as it will do on other treaty . what be it in particular that the new regime in Mauritius have doubt about ? it be that they want more money , isn ' t it ? I think it be quite normal for any new Government to look again at a deal sign by their immediate predecessor — [ interruption . ] the reason I say that be that when they look at the deal , they will see that the detail be convincing ; just as it will be for our US friend , because it be a deal back by the entirety of the US security apparatus that secure the future operation of the UK - US base well into the future and deal with the uncertainty around the base that exist until the deal be make . hopefully , the right hon . Member will back the deal when the detail come before the House — let we see . the presentation of what the American Administration believe be a fantasy . Joe Biden be go — in fact , many think that he have go already . I have be contact by very senior official and adviser from the incoming Republican Administration , and every single one of they be appal at this deal . they know that the leasehold agreement will not survive , just as the deal with China over Hong Kong do not survive . have not the time come for the Government to admit that this be a rotten deal for the UK , a rotten deal for America and an even bad deal for the Chagossians ? if the Minister care so much about the sovereignty of the Falklands be in the hand of the Falkland Islanders , why not have a referendum of the Chagossians and ask they to settle who should have sovereignty over those island ? as someone who have be in the Falklands recently , let I say that whip up uncertainty about their future be not helpful for the security of the Falkland Islanders . let we be absolutely clear : the Falklands be british for as long as the people of the Falkland Islands want to be british . when it come to this deal , I be certain that when its detail have be put before this House and before our US friend and other ally , they will see that it not only secure the future of the UK - US base — something that be not the case until the deal be sign — but secure it well into the next century , when the hon . Gentleman and I will no long be in this place but the UK - US base on Diego Garcia will still be operate , secure our national interest . we in this House all know how the People ' s Republic of China have be able to use commercial vessel , include fishing vessel , to impinge on how we operate . will the Minister set out how large an exclusion zone there will be around Diego Garcia to ensure that our interest and US interest be properly protect ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his serious question and the way in which he present it . it be important that we have certainty about the security of the future relationship . that be why the treaty set out clearly security arrangement for the outer island that will prevent foreign nation from put security force or security apparatus on those island . the full detail will be in the treaty . it be important to note that Mauritius be one of only two african country that do not join the chinese belt and road initiative , and maintain a strong relationship with it — especially in more contested time — be vital . that be what the deal help to deliver . the Minister say that the outgoing Biden Administration in the US be keen on the deal , which may or may not be the case , but the british public plainly be not — for good reason — and they see the payment of a dowry to Mauritius as rub salt into the wound . if he be not prepared to comment on the quantum that he have in mind , will he at least explain the structure of the costing he be apply to come to the figure that he wish to give Mauritius for take on these island ? I thank the former Minister for his question . as he serve in the Department that I now serve in , he will know that it be normal to reveal the operating cost for overseas basis , but that we do not — he do not and we do not — reveal the Government - to - government payment . that be standard procedure for his Government and every Government before , and it remain the policy of this Government . this deal secure the future of the UK - US base , and I be hopeful that when the detail come out , he will be able to understand why it secure that for so long , and hopefully he will be able to back it . the Minister have say that he be not willing to give detail of the financial arrangement , although he will be aware that the Mauritian Prime Minister have describe the deal as a sell - out . can he at least give an assurance that the Government will not commit to give yet more money to get the deal through before the new US Administration arrive in January ? we think that this be a good deal . when the detail come out , other will be able to make their judgment , but I think they will conclude that it be a good deal . it secure the future of the UK - US base on Diego Garcia , which be the override objective when the right hon . Gentleman ' s party be in power . the Conservatives set that objective , and we be glad that this deal secure the future of the base well into the next century . that be an important step for UK and US national security . will the Minister set out how he intend to implement safeguard against China establish military capability and surveillance capacity in the british indian ocean territory ? that be an important question , and one that I respond to a few answer ago . let I reassure the hon . Gentleman that safeguard in the treaty will detail that no foreign security force will be able to set up on the outer island , provide that security perimeter around Diego Garcia that we and our US ally have seek . this be a good deal because it secure not only the future operation of the base but the future security around the base . I be hopeful that when the detail come out , he will be able to see that for himself . I return to a question ask but not answer this afternoon . if as a result of the review the Mauritian Government demand more money , will the Government pay up in order to save face ? I be confident that this be a good deal . the Mauritian Government will look at the deal that have be sign and see that it be a good one . our US friend know that it be a good deal , and anyone look at it in future will see that it be a good deal because it achieve our no . 1 objective of secure the UK - US base on Diego Garcia well into the next century . the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , allude to the presumptive nominee Marco Rubio ' s comment that the deal represent a serious threat to US national security . do the Minister agree ? all the representative of the US security apparatus who have see the detail of the deal back it . it secure the future of the base and it allay US fear around the future of the base . there have be some barking from the Opposition Front Bench about this , so it be important to say that the base on Diego Garcia be not currently secure for the long term . there be question over its long - term sovereignty , and people be build support against our sovereignty claim . this deal secure the long - term operation of that base well into the next century . have be one of many in this House to have vehemently oppose the ceding of the Chagos Islands without consult the resident , and have stand in solidarity with those who oppose it , I be anxious to ensure that the Americans take control . in turn , we must offer they support and allow those resident who consider themselves british to be a part of the equation . what step have the fcdo take to ensure that the US be aware of the strength of opposition to this decision from those from the Chagos Islands ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his serious question . this deal not only settle some of the outer island for the chagossian community but allow visit to Diego Garcia for the chagossian community who be remove in a way that this government so deeply regret . the detail of the deal be good to secure our national security and US national security , and it take important step to recognise and remedy the pain suffer by chagossian community . bangladesh : attack on Hindu Community ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the situation in Bangladesh and recent attack on the Hindu community there . the UK have a long - stand commitment to the protection of human right . the UK champion freedom of religion or belief for all ; no one should live in fear because of what they do or do not believe in . we be work to uphold the right to freedom of religion or belief through our position at the UN , G7 and at other multilateral fora , and in our important bilateral work . just last month , as my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) be aware , I visit Bangladesh , where , as part of our programme , I meet Chief Adviser Professor Yunus and Foreign Affairs Adviser Touhid Hossain . at the meeting with Chief Adviser Yunus , I discuss the full range of bilateral issue , include the importance of protect religious minority in Bangladesh . the UK Government support freedom of religion or belief and freedom of expression in Bangladesh through both our political advocacy and development programme funding , provide up to £ 27 million from March 2023 to February 2028 under the Bangladesh collaborative , accountable and peaceful politic programme for protect civic and political space . on the Hindu community in Bangladesh specifically , I be give assurance by the interim Government in Bangladesh that support be available for minority community in Bangladesh in the lead up to Durga Puja — a national festival . we be pleased to see the establishment of a special policing unit , which be active in protect mandap — the Hindu worship site — as I be sure my hon . friend be aware . the UK Government will continue to monitor the situation , include make representation from this House , and will engage with the interim Government in Bangladesh on the importance of freedom of religion or belief specifically as it affect the Hindu community . thank you for allow this urgent question , Mr Speaker . since the fall of the previous Government in August , Bangladesh have see more than 2 , 000 incident of violence , most of which have be target against the minority Hindu community . hindu make up less than 10 % of the population of Bangladesh . as my hon . friend will be aware , anti - hindu violence have be a recurrent event in Bangladesh . indeed , early this year , the Jamaat - e - Islami party be ban after riot in which 200 people be kill . while Bangladesh no long have the secular constitution of 1971 and become an islamic state in 1988 , there be none the less suppose to be protection for minority religion under the constitution , include article 28 and 39 . however , these appear not to be be enforce . there be report of police and army stand by , as more than 20 place of minority Hindu and Sufi worship be vandalise and their worshipper attack . this come to a head on Friday , when extremist group from the Jamaat - e - Islami party attack two hindu temple in Chittagong and conduct a campaign of orchestrated violence against the Hindu population . a lead Hindu monk , Chinmoy Krishna Das , a former leader of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness have be arrest . ISKCON be a worldwide branch of modern Hinduism with its UK headquarters at Bhaktivedanta Manor in Bushey , many of whose worshipper live in my constituency of Brent West and the surround area of north - west London . People be concerned that while he be engage in exclusively peaceful protest , he have be deny due process , charge with sedition and refuse bail , yet none of the individual who attack the temple have be apprehend or charge . on Saturday , senior bangladeshi journalist Munni Saha be take into police custody follow an attack on her car by a large mob in Dhaka , and release only under the provision of the criminal code . the situation be clearly on a knife edge . with such large diaspora population in the UK and large Hindu community with strong link to the community in Bangladesh , I ask my hon . friend what more she can do to have discussion with the Bangladeshi Government and other partner in the region to ensure that tension be lower , the rule of law put into effect , and calm and order restore . my hon . friend be right to raise these concern . our high commission , base in Dhaka , be in detailed discussion with the interim Government of Bangladesh on how to verify and record the number of incident or attack against community , and indeed small business , where there have be report of such attack , as well as take remedial action and indeed work on prevention . that be why , in the week we visit , we be pleased to hear that the special policing unit have be set up . we stand ready to offer advice on law and order , but know that that be part of the road map towards a more stable Bangladesh . we be aware of the statement of concern from the indian Government follow the arrest of Chinmoy Krishna Das , a well - know Hindu leader , on sedition charge . the UK Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office desk be closely monitor those development . I call the shadow Secretary of State . first of all , I thank the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) for his urgent question on this important subject . he also raise the arrest of the ISKCON leader , and I too be familiar with the place of worship near the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . there be deep and long - stand tie between our two country . the Minister visit Bangladesh recently . she be right to point out that , as the hon . member for Brent West say , the degree of escalation in the violence be deeply , deeply concern . what we be witness now be uncontrolle violence in many quarter . we be watch with horror and shock as further violence spread in Bangladesh . the thought of all of we in the House be with the diaspora community here and those affect in Bangladesh . these be deeply disturbing report . the Minister also mention the deadly attack and the violence that take place during what be an auspicious period , the Durga Puja festival , in 2021 . give the current instability in Bangladesh and the departure of the former Prime Minister in August , this be a moment of deep concern . many government be condemn the violence and call for peace , and law and order to be restore . I welcome the Minister ' s comment , but I emphasise that all effort must now be take . a religious leader have be arrest and we need to know what be be do , due process in particular , to secure his release . will the Minister give detail of the Government ' s engagement with the Bangladesh Government on that particular matter ? what discussion have take place ? have we be robust in pursue : the right to protect life ; the prevention of violence and persecution ; and , importantly , tolerance for religious belief ? what effort have the Government undertake to build on the previous Government ' s work to promote freedom of religion and belief in Bangladesh ? can the Minister say what discussion be take place with other international partner to help restore the stability we desperately need to see in Bangladesh ? the protest follow the student - lead event in June , July and August be deeply troubling and lead to the fall of the Government of Bangladesh . the Opposition spokesperson be quite correct to emphasise the nature of these worrying protest . our constituent be concern , which be why my hon . friend the Member for Brent West bring this important question here today . they include report case of retaliatory attack against ally of the former regime , include the Hindu minority . some of the attack be allegedly politically motivated and be of concern . that be why I have it at the top of my agenda when I meet Professor Dr Yunus and why the effort be make to set up the police unit . our high commission be active — more than any other that I could see when I be there — in guiding , help and support a peaceful transition to a new Government , election eventually and a harmonious future . anywhere in the world where freedom of religion or belief be at risk , there we will be stand up for the right of minority group . many constituent in Aylesbury have raise concern about the safety of Hindus in Bangladesh . they have show I extremely concern social medium content contain threat to Hindus to leave the country or face extermination . do the Minister agree that that be unacceptable ? will she outline what representation she have make to the Government of Bangladesh to ensure that those who incite and perpetrate violence be hold to account ? my hon . friend be do excellent work represent her constituent who be concerned about these act of violence . I impress on she that the UK be one of the first with ministerial support to arrive in Dhaka , speak with the chief adviser Professor Yunus and be vocal in support of minority . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we share the concern of Members on both side of the House about these attack . I note that the Minister have speak to her Bangladeshi counterpart , and urge she to continue to do so . the most recent Foreign Office human right and democracy report list Bangladesh as a " human right priority " country and highlight " report of harassment . . . particularly towards . . . hindu minority , often incite online . " the report recognise that " UK funding through civil society organisation support freedom of religion or belief and community mediation process " . can the Minister update we on the progress be make , use UK funding , in combat religious discrimination in Bangladesh ? be that funding at risk of be another casualty of the late round of cut in overseas development assistance ? will the Government support our call for an ambassador - level champion of freedom of religion or belief , so that the UK can do more to ensure that the right of Hindus and all religious minority be protect and uphold ? I thank the hon . Lady for her suggestion for the Government . I can confirm that , on 20 November , the Deputy Prime Minister say in Parliament that the envoy appointment be under ministerial consideration and would be decide on in course , so the hon . Lady will hear presently about the freedom of religion representative . regardless of any ministerial visit , the treatment of minority will always be uppermost on our agenda with the Government we be visit . as for her question about funding , we be provide up to £ 27 million between March 2023 and February 2028 under the " Bangladesh — Collaborative , Accountable and Peaceful Politics " programme for protect civic and political space , foster collaboration , reduce corruption , and mitigate tension that lead to violence . that be the sort of programme that we have when a country be a " human right concern " country . I be grateful to my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , for raise these important issue . we must be vigilant against all attack on minority , be they Buddhists , Christians or the Hindus in Bangladesh . do the Minister agree that , sadly , at time , since the country ' s formation in 1971 , there have be communal tension of this kind ? they be not new . Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have send I a list of flashpoint event . between 1974 and 2001 , the Hindu population in Bangladesh decrease from 13 . 5 % to 8 . 5 % , so this be not a new phenomenon . may I also caution the Minister ? follow the collapse of the regime after the murder of 800 student in the summer , some people may seek to exploit these tension , and we need to stamp on that hard . can the Minister assure we that we be do all that we can to enable the country to make the transition to democracy , and to what people be call Bangladesh 2 . 0 ? the hon . Lady be a champion of human right in the House , and I thank she for her particular interest in Bangladesh . I congratulate my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , and thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question . it be sad that the Minister have to come here to answer an urgent question , have be ask last Thursday for a statement on the Floor of the House . hindu be suffer with their house be burn and their business ransack . priest have be arrest , and I understand that two more be arrest over the weekend , and 63 monk have be deny access to the country . the clear issue be an attempt at the ethnic cleansing of Hindus from Bangladesh . will the Minister come out and condemn outright this violence against Hindus ? we want to hear not just word of piety , but absolute condemnation of what be go on . religious minority be be deliberately persecute because of their religion . the hon . Gentleman must rest assure that this be at the top of my agenda when I meet Dr Yunus , the leader of the interim Government . it be very much at the forefront of our discussion . as with similar nation , we be there first — our be the first ministerial visit — and it be absolutely at the top of the list . there can be nothing like a face - to - face encounter with the person in charge to underline the importance of freedom of religion or belief , and in this instance , of stop attack against the minority Hindu community . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) on secure this important urgent question . I represent a diverse community . both Muslims and Hindus in Liverpool have make representation to I about the grow sectarian violence , the slide to extremism , and particularly the persecution of the Hindu minority . the violence face by minority on religious and political ground must stop . what representation be the UK Government make at the United Nations on this matter , and be we confident that the interim Government in Dhaka can get a grip on this ? I commend my hon . friend for her commitment to the community in her constituency . I want to emphasise that in my visit last month , freedom of religion or belief , the protection of minority , and general law and order be right at the top of the agenda . the UK be at hand to support Bangladesh at this difficult time , when law and order , and stability , be at risk . clearly , it would have be expedient to have have a special envoy for religious freedom in place ; it be all very well for the Minister to say that such an appointment be under ministerial consideration . what be the problem ? do the Government not have anyone commit enough or talente enough to do it ? I be a big believer in mainstreame all these important responsibility , because have a special envoy for freedom of religion or belief sometimes let the Minister off the hook . as the representative of the UK in Dhaka , I see it as my responsibility , and mine alone , to make the case for the Hindu community or any other persecute minority . I be not go to wash my hand of that and let somebody else do it . the responsibility be be mainstreame across every single ministerial brief as we speak . resident in Portsmouth North have love one and family member in Bangladesh and , like this House , be concerned about their safety and security . do the Minister agree that we need to see a peaceful pathway to an inclusive and democratic future for Bangladesh , and can she give we and Portsmouth North constituent information on how that be be advanced ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . first , we have a face - to - face meeting with the leadership of the country and , secondly , we be provide ongoing support . the high commission in Dhaka be involve in keep law and order , in advise on anything that lead towards the safe holding of election at some time in 2025 and , indeed , in listen to the voice of those who have be affect by the violence over July and August , and of the Hindu minority community . a number of member of the Hindu community in Mid Buckinghamshire have contact I to say that they be deeply concerned about the situation in Bangladesh , and I urge the Minister to take every diplomatic step possible to protect Hindus in that country . do she believe that Bangladesh ' s constitution , which guarantee equal status to religion , and equal right in the practice of religion , provide a reliable legal basis on which to domestically prosecute case of religiously motivated violence ? we stand ready to assist Bangladesh as it go forward with its difficult road map towards eventually hold election . today ' s urgent question be so important , because law and order be crucial at this fragile time . we be there to be friend , to be supportive and to provide any legal assistance that we can offer the country go forward . can the Minister reassure the House about the importance of religion and belief in Bangladesh and all nation across the world , particularly for minority ? she will appreciate the long - standing , deep tie between the Hindu community in the UK and Hindus in Bangladesh . can she please detail what engagement she have have with the UK ' s Hindu and bangladeshi community on this issue , and do she believe that such engagement be important ? those community be appal at what be go on . I thank my hon . friend for his question . when I be in Bangladesh , I be able to speak specifically about law and order , and about concern raise in this House at our cross - party engagement event . I commit to do another one of those , to explain the exact content of my discussion in Bangladesh . let I respond on how I have be learn in my role . I be delighted to go to the London borough of Brent to visit the Neasden temple and learn about Diwali ; I have an exceptional visit with the British Asian Trust and learn so much . that be a prelude to Diwali . after go to Bangladesh , I go to India . I be on a wonderful journey — I be fall in love . I thank the Minister for her commitment to address issue of religious freedom and human right . over 16 day , 2 , 010 people report incident , include attack on 69 hindu temple . the home of 157 family be attack , loot , vandalise or set on fire , and nine Hindus lose their life . what step can the UK take to work with the Bangladeshi Government and international partner to promote the right of religious minority in Bangladesh , to ensure accountability for these heinous crime , and to promote the fundamental right to freedom of religion or belief for all ? will the Government consider raise these issue at the UN , or through direct diplomatic engagement , to ensure a swift and decisive response ? there can be no great champion of freedom of religion or belief than the hon . Gentleman , who work closely on the issue with the former Member for Congleton in the last Parliament . he rightly monitor every single event and detail they here . I undertake to write back to he on the instance that he mention , and will leave a copy in the Library for other member to look at . some of my constituent from the grow indian community in Winchburgh be increasingly concerned about the account of horrific act of violence towards the Hindu community in Bangladesh . do the Minister agree that violence against Hindus , or any other religious minority , be entirely unacceptable ? what reassurance can she provide to my constituent that the UK Government be support all effort to protect the freedom of religion and belief ? I commend my hon . friend , a new Member , for call for freedom of religion or belief , include the freedom not to have a belief ; it be so important to our work on this issue . I can reassure she not only that the matter be at the top of my agenda when I visit Bangladesh , but that we continue to monitor any instance of violence and lack of law and order , and continue to offer support where we can to the interim Government of Bangladesh . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) on secure this urgent question , and I thank the Minister for her response . she will be aware that a significant number of member of the Bangladeshi Hindu diaspora in the UK , include in my constituency , have express concern about the attack on the Hindu community in Bangladesh . she may be aware that several Bangladeshi Hindu community organisation in the UK have recently write to the Foreign Secretary request a meeting . what effort be she and the Foreign Secretary make to engage with the community , and be they willing to attend a meeting to discuss their concern and the action that the Government be take ? I be very happy to attend a meeting , as I be sure the Foreign Secretary will be . as part of learn about this brief , I intend to visit a number of place of worship to emphasise the importance of minority faith group , and to reassure they that in our work abroad , not just at home , we talk about the importance of freedom of religion or belief , or no belief . several of my constituent have be in touch who be incredibly concerned about family member in Bangladesh . those family member have be live in extreme fear for some time , but particularly since August , and report of increase violence against the Hindu community be disturbing . how do the Government intend to support human right in Bangladesh , and to support the Bangladeshi community in my constituency as they go through this difficult time ? I thank the young Member of the House for his concern about Bangladesh and the minority community there . his constituent can be inform through the meeting that I will hold as the Minister responsible for this brief ; I will invite all member to it . if anybody would like to bring specific example , we will have a desk there , and we will be able to answer any question that be forthcoming . that complete the urgent question . I will now suspend the House for 10 minute so that we can all read the statement , which we unfortunately do not have . it have rightly be previously acknowledge by the Home Secretary that it be totally unfair to bounce the Chamber into a discussion . in future , we must get statement on time . let I apologise , Mr Speaker . I do check that it have be send at a quarter to , to make sure it be here with 45 minute to go . if it do not reach you , I apologise , but that be the information I be give . not only be the information wrong , but we do not get the statement until four minute to 4 , and the opposition do not get it until almost 4 o ' clock . that be totally unfair , and Ministers need to get their act together . this should not happen . I be suspend the House for 10 minute . sitting suspend . Migration and Border Security for the record , I draw the attention of those on the Treasury Bench , and all member , to paragraph 9 . 5 of the late addition of the " Ministerial Code " , which state that a copy of the text of an oral statement should be make available to the opposition and to the Speaker ' s Office at least 45 minute before the statement be to be make . it be clearly highly regrettable that that do not happen today . I note the Home Secretary ' s previous apology make shortly before the sitting be suspend . I call the Home Secretary to make her statement . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on net migration , asylum and border security , and on the collapse in control that take place over the last five year , the damage do as a result , and the action we be now take to turn that around . last Thursday ' s official statistic show how over the last five year control in the immigration and asylum system crumble , legal and illegal migration both substantially increase , the backlog in the asylum system soar , and enforcement of basic rule fall apart . net migration more than quadruple in just four year to a record high of nearly 1 million people , and it be still more than three time high than in 2019 . dangerous small boat crossing rise from 300 people in 2018 to an average of over 36 , 000 a year in the last three year — a hundred - and - twentyfold increase . in just a few short year , an entire criminal smuggler industry build around boat crossing have be allow to take hold along the UK border . the cost of the asylum system also quadruple to £ 4 billion last year . in 2019 , there be no asylum hotel ; five year on , there be more than 200 . return of those with no right to be here be 30 % low than in 2010 , and asylum - relate return be down by 20 % compare with 14 year ago . that be the legacy we inherit from the previous Government , one that former Ministers have themselves admit be shameful . we should be clear that this country have always support people come here from abroad to work , to study or to be protect from persecution . that have make we the country we be — from the Windrush generation to the Kindertransport ; from international medic work in our NHS to the family we have support from Ukraine . but that be exactly why the immigration and asylum system have to be properly control and manage , so that they support our economy and promote community cohesion , with rule properly respect and enforce , and so that our border be keep strong and secure . none of those thing have be happen for the last five year . the scale of the failure and the loss of control have badly undermine trust in the entire system , and it will take time to turn thing around . let I turn to the change that be need in three area . first , on legal migration , recent year have see what the Office for National Statistics call " large increase in both work - relate and study - relate immigration follow the end of travel restriction and the introduction of the new immigration system after the UK leave the EU . " conservative Government reform in 2021 make it much easy to recruit from abroad , include a 20 % wage discount for overseas worker . at the same time , training here in the UK be cut , with 55 , 000 few apprenticeship start than five year ago , and the number of UK resident not work or study hit a record high of over 8 million . this be an experiment go badly wrong , build on a careless free market approach that literally incentivise employer to recruit from abroad rather than to train or to tackle workforce problem here at home . this Government be clear that net migration must come down . we be continue with the visa control belatedly introduce by the previous Government , include the high salary threshold , the 20 % discount and the restriction on dependant visa for student and care worker , but we must go far to restore order and credibility to the system . since the election , we have set out new plan to ban rogue employer who breach employment law from sponsor overseas worker ; we have reverse the previous Conservative Government ' s decision to remove visa requirement for a number of country from which large number of people arrive as visitor be enter the UK asylum system instead ; and we be review visa far to prevent misuse . however , we also need to overhaul the dysfunctional UK labour market that we inherit , include by bring together the work of the Migration Advisory Committee , Skills England , the Department for Work and Pensions and the new Industrial Strategy Council to identify area where the economy have become over - reliant on overseas recruitment , and where new action will be need to boost training and support . that work will be at the heart of our new White Paper , show how net migration must and will come down , as we set out new way to link the point - base system with new requirement for training here in Britain . let I turn to the asylum system . last week ' s figure show how the previous Government crash the asylum system in the run - up to the election . in their last six month in office , asylum decision drop by 75 % and asylum interview drop by over 80 % , so only a few hundred decision be be take every week instead of thousand . caseworker be deploy elsewhere and the backlog shoot up . we have have to spend the summer repair that damage , get caseworker back in place , restore interview and decision , and substantially boost return . it will take time to deal with the add backlog and pressure on asylum accommodation that that collapse in decision making cause , but the swift action we take over the summer have prevent thousand more people from be place in asylum hotel , save hundred of million of pound . today I be also publish the full spending breakdown of the previous Government ' s fail Rwanda partnership . in the two year that the partnership be in place , just four volunteer be send to Rwanda , at a cost of £ 700 million . that include £ 290 million pay to the Government in Kigali , and almost £ 300 million for staff , it and legal cost . the result of that massive commitment of time and money be that 84 , 000 people cross the channel from the day the deal be sign to the day it be scrap . that so - call deterrent do not result in a single deportation or stop a single boat from cross the channel . for the british taxpayer , it be a grotesque waste of money . since the election , we have swiftly redeploy many of the people who be work on fantasy planning for the Rwanda scheme to work instead on actual flight to return those who have no right to stay in the UK . that have help to deliver nearly 10 , 000 return since the election . enforce return be up by 19 % , voluntary return be up by 14 % , illegal working visit be up by approximately 34 % , and arrest from those visit be up by approximately 25 % . I can tell the House that this new programme to tackle exploitation and ensure that the rule be enforce will continue and accelerate next year . let I turn to border security . six year ago , few than 300 people arrive on dangerous small boat . since then , an entire criminal industry have take hold and grow , with route stretch through France , Germany and beyond , from the Kurdistan region of Iraq to the money market of Kabul . the criminal profit from undermine border security and put life at risk , and it be a disgrace that they have get away with it for so long . since the election , we have establish the new Border Security Command , announce £ 150 million over the next 18 month for new technology , intelligence , and hundred of specialist investigator work ; strike new anti - smuggling action plan agreement with the G7 , and bilateral agreement with Italy , Germany , Serbia and Balkan state ; and increase UK operation with Europol and the Calais group . in recent week , international collaboration have lead to high - profile arrest and show the smuggling gang that we will not sanction any hiding place from law enforcement . I can tell the House today that we have go far , with a major new international collaboration . the iraqi Government and the Kurdistan Regional Government share our concern about the people trafficker operate through their country who have help to transport thousand of people across Europe and across the channel , but joint action to tackle those problem have previously be far too weak . that be why last week I visit Baghdad and Erbil to sign new co - operation agreement on border security , migration and organised crime . as part of those agreement , we will invest half a million pound in help the Kurdistan region to enhance its capability on biometric and security , and in train iraqi border staff to tackle organise immigration crime . we have also make new commitment on joint operation , information sharing , pursue prosecution and disruption , and with further work on return . those landmark agreement be the first in the world for an iraqi Government focus on play their part in the world . Most people in Britain want to see strong border security and a properly control and manage migration and asylum system where the rule be respect and enforce ; one where we do our bit alongside other country to help those who have flee persecution , but where those with no right to be here be swiftly return ; and where it be government , not gang , who decide who can enter our country . for five year , none of those thing have happen , and people have understandably lose faith in the entire system . we now have the chance to turn that around : to fix the chaos , bring net migration down , tackle the criminal gang and prevent dangerous boat crossing ; to restore order , control , and fair rule that be properly enforce — not through gimmick , but through hard graft and serious international partnership . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank Mr Speaker and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for ensure that we have the proper time to consider the statement . the Home Secretary seem to have a great deal to say about the last government and rather less to say about her own record since the election , but fortuitously there be a large release of datum last week that give we an insight into her first five month in office . have look at that datum , I can see why she be so silent on her own record . let I start with small boat . yesterday mark 150 day since 4 July , and in that time a staggering 20 , 110 people have make the dangerous , illegal and unnecessary crossing — over 20 , 000 since this Government be elect . that be an 18 % increase on the same 150 day last year , and a staggering 64 % increase on the 150 day immediately prior to the election . why have those number go up so much ? let we turn to what the National Crime Agency say last year . it say that no amount of funding or action against people smuggler would end crossing on its own , and go on to say — and I quote — that " you need an effective removal deterrence . " after the Labour Government be elect , they cancel that deterrent — the Rwanda deterrent — before it have even start . the first flight be due to take off on 24 July this year , but they cancel it . have that flight take off as plan , we would not have see the 64 % increase in crossing that we have see since the election , exactly as the National Crime Agency foresaw . it be not just I and the National Crime Agency ; even Ursula von der Leyen , the President of the European Commission , have call for european member state to implement an offshore processing scheme , a proposal that 18 member state be say to support . as such , my first question be whether the Home Secretary will agree with the National Crime Agency and do what Ursula von der Leyen have urge , and re - establish that scheme . as a consequence of the Home Secretary ' s failure to reduce small boat number , the use of asylum hotel — which Labour promise to end — have go up by 6 , 066 in the three month follow the election . the asylum backlog , which the Home Secretary have a great deal to say about , have go up by 11 , 000 in the three month follow the general election , something that she do not find time to mention . she do talk a bit about her deal in Iraq , which spend £ 500 , 000 with the iraqi Government . that be not a great deal of money — it be what would probably be spend on a road surface scheme in any of our constituency . I be afraid that the idea that spend £ 500 , 000 be go to stop people smuggle from Iraq be naive and fanciful . what might have help smash the gang be life sentence for people smuggle , so perhaps the Home Secretary could explain why in the last Parliament she vote against a Bill that contain life sentence for the people - smuggle gang she say she want to smash . on the question of legal migration , I agree with the Home Secretary that the number have be far too high for many decade under successive government . it be welcome that the number for the most recent year have come down by 20 % , but that be not far enough — we need to go far . I welcome the fact that the Government be go to maintain most of the measure introduce by the last Government that lead to that 20 % reduction . we have also see the number of visa go down , which of course be a lead indicator of net migration . work visa be down by 28 % year on year , student dependant visa be down by 84 % , student visa be down by 19 % and care visa be down by 84 % , all thank to measure introduce by the last government . however , I would like to know why this Government have decide to suspend the plan increase in the dependant visa salary threshold up to £ 38 , 700 which be due to take effect next April . if they be serious about reduce net migration , as the Home Secretary say , why have they suspend the measure announce by my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) last December ? if they be really serious about reduce net migration , as we be , what we really need be a hard cap on the number , as propose by the Leader of the Opposition and I last week . will the Government follow our suggestion and introduce that hard cap ? behind all the bluster and all the chat about previous government , we see the Home Secretary ' s record and her Government ' s record : a 64 % increase in small boat crossing since the same period before the election , 6 , 000 extra people in hotel and the asylum backlog up by 11 , 000 — all since 4 July . we see the Rwanda deterrent , which the National Crime Agency and even Ursula von der Leyen say be necessary , cancel by this government before it even start . I call on the Home Secretary to think again on those issue , to introduce in April the measure that the previous Government announce and to introduce a hard cap . if she be serious about combat illegal migration and get the net legal migration figure down , she will adopt those measure . if anyone have believe that flight be go to go off to Rwanda this summer , the Conservatives would not have call the general election when they do . they would have hang on hope that it might happen . however , we see just the same thing time and again : they keep promise and keep say it be go to happen , and everybody can now see that it be a total failure . the policy run for over two year , and they keep promise that the flight be go to go off , but they never do . they just spend £ 700 million instead . so much do they know that this be a total failure that their newly elect leader will not even promise to reinstate it , because she know the whole thing be a con . let I remind the shadow Home Secretary that in the first half of this year — the last six month of his government — crossing hit a record high for that season . if that trend of a record high have carry on and the increase for the first half of the year have carry on through the summer , we would have be deal with thousand more crossing . instead , because we have an increase in the number of people arrive from Vietnam , this Government introduce a major charter flight — a return flight — to Vietnam , and we have be work with the vietnamese Government to make sure that the number from Vietnam come down . we also have to deal with the total collapse in asylum decision make that the Conservatives leave we with , which mean that we have have to get caseworker who they have deploy elsewhere back in place . the Conservatives also let the backlog soar . the shadow Home Secretary wriggle a little around the net migration figure , which have go up to a record high of 900 , 000 because of the rule that the Conservatives — his government — introduce in 2021 . who be the Immigration Minister who bring in those rule ? it be the shadow Home Secretary . at a time of hugely stretch resource across the Government , thank to the mess leave in the public finance by the Conservative party , I welcome the additional money announce for investment in the Border Security Command , and in strengthen our wide intelligence and enforcement capability against the smuggling gang . do the Home Secretary agree that that be a far well use of taxpayer ' money than pay people to go to Rwanda ? my hon . friend be right . if we go back just six year , there be barely any boat crossing . this criminal infrastructure be not in place along our border , but we have see it take hold , and be allow to take hold , for several year and to build and grow . those gang be get away with undermine our border security and put life at risk , and we should not be allow they to get away with it . that be why the co - operation in place , lead by the Border Security Command , go after the gang and pursue prosecution and disruption , be so vital to save life and strengthen our border . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Conservatives trash our immigration system , and now it be time to pick up the piece — [ interruption . ] a period of quiet reflection on some Benches might be appropriate for the next couple of minute . their chaotic approach of make and break target shatter public trust and leave the system in a right shamble . the word " Rwanda , " " small boat , " and " asylum hotel " take on new shameful meaning under the previous Conservative Government . net migration figure hit record high on their watch , skyrocket , particularly after they take the UK out of the EU . yet still the Conservatives ' arbitrary rule make it nearly impossible for some sector , such as hospitality , to recruit the worker they need . change be desperately need . we need to rebuild an immigration system that work for our country and our economy — a fair , effective system that welcome the worker we need . I be think about the senior surgeon who undertake the kidney transplant that my dad have and that keep he alive . that surgeon come here as an immigrant . we also need a system that clearly and properly enforce the rule , and that see our university sector as a jewel in the crown , welcome student from overseas , and as a way of use the UK ' s soft power for good . it be right that the Government be take step to make it easy to recruit british worker to fill vacancy , and a thorough workforce strategy be sorely need . will the Government consider implement liberal Democrat call for a carer ' s minimum wage to help address the well document need of the social care sector ? I be pleased that the Home Secretary talk about how we will have to work closely with our international partner to stop the dangerous channel crossing — something the previous Conservative Government make it hard for we to do time and again . International co - operation be crucial , but our response to the criminal gang , who be profit from some of the most vulnerable people , must go far . we must crack down on modern slavery here in the UK , as that be how those gang make a big chunk of their money . I hope the Government will cut off the power of the gang at its source , by provide safe and legal route for genuine refugee . the Government have a mammoth task ahead , rebuild not only an immigration system that work , but importantly rebuild the public ' s trust in the process . I welcome many of the point that the hon . Member have make . she be right to point to the lack of trust and confidence in the system as a result of the chaos of the last few year , as well as to the loss of control and practical measure in place . she raise migration for work , which quadruple in the space of four or five year , at the same time as we have drop in the number of adult in training and apprenticeship start . that be a system that be break . I agree that we should support fair pay agreement in social care and a proper workforce strategy around that , to ensure that we can well recruit and support care worker who be UK resident . I have also ask the Migration Advisory Committee to look particularly at the engineering and it sector . we have have persistently high level of recruitment from abroad in those sector , and frankly we should have have far well and long stand training here in the UK . do the Home Secretary agree that the public be right to be angry about the state of public service , and that the blame lie squarely with 14 year of cut and mismanagement by Conservative Governments , not with migrant who contribute to their new home ? will she stand up to attempt by Conservative Members to distract from their own failure and divide the country by scapegoate people who just want a well life for themselves and their family , as we all do ? my hon . friend be right to say that in 14 year the previous Government do deep damage not just to our public service but to our economy , and they have to take responsibility for that . we have a history go back through generation of people who have come to the UK to work , study , and get protection from persecution , but it be because those system be an important part of who we be that they also need to be control and manage . that be why alongside the damage that the previous Government do to our economy and public service , we have also see damage to the relationship between the migration system and the labour market , which have end up with a loss of control . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the estimate spend on the agreement with Iraq be around £ 800 , 000 , which compare with , I think , the £ 476 million be spend on our agreement with France . have the Home Secretary make an estimate of how much she expect that money will contribute to reduce the number cross the channel ? what we have find in our discussion with both the Iraqi Government and the Kurdistan regional authority be that they want to tackle organise immigration crime in their country . they be concerned about not just people traffic and people smuggling , but drug trafficking , to which the same gang be sometimes link , and money laundering . we find a strong willingness to work with we ; the most important thing will be to get the co - ordination , co - operation , information sharing , standard and intelligence in place . that will be the start . this be the beginning of a partnership , and the funding that we have set out will be for the first step in that partnership , to get well biometric , well training capability and well border security in place . we see it as an important partnership that need to grow . as an international liaison prosecutor , my job be to facilitate international co - operation , work with the NCA and overseas authority . do the Home Secretary agree that that be the key to smash the criminal people smuggle gang , not gimmick such as the Rwanda scheme ? I completely agree . spend £ 700 million just to send back four volunteer be the most astonishing , shocking waste of money . my hon . friend be right . the criminal gang operate across border , but law enforcement across border be far too weak . it have be far too much a case of each country look inward rather than get co - operation in place , so the gang be able to run ring around law enforcement in far too many place across the world . we have to strengthen the co - operation across border in order to tackle the gang . I call the Father of the House . I agree with the Home Secretary that the failure of the last government to control immigration be unconscionable , and our new leader have rightly apologise for our failure . some of we on the Back Benches warn the Government at the time , but there we be — that be the past . look to the future , I agree that we all want to return illegal migrant to where they come from , but will the Home Secretary list the country that human right lawyer say be so unsafe that people can not be return to they ? what be the deterrent for people from those country if we do not have an offshoring policy ? obviously , each individual case need to be decide on a case - by - case basis . it have be agree through the court that , for example , some people could be safely return to Iraq , but the process , or the bureaucracy , be extremely slow . many people be currently in the immigration enforcement system . the previous system be just not follow up and take action , which be why we have be able to increase the return substantially in a short period . of course , each case have to be look at on its merit , but we can do substantially more to ensure that the rule be properly respect and enforce . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and I ask my question in the context of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I also thank she for talk about the UK ' s strong history of welcome people who be try to escape persecution . we should not forget that at the heart of the organised people smuggle into this country be people be exploit and die . the last Government be reduce in their final day to sloganise about people come on boat , and about the Rwanda scheme , which bring shame on our country . I be appal to hear the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) try to defend the scheme , and shock to hear he describe the drop in the number of student come to the UK as something to be celebrate . give way . sorry . order . I call the Home Secretary . clearly the Rwanda scheme fail , and the Leader of the Opposition know that it fail . that be why she do not want to reinstate it , contrary to the view of the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , who seem to want to spend another £ 700 million over another two year to send another four volunteer to Rwanda . the criminal who organise the boat be incredibly dangerous . we have see child crush to death and people drown as a result of these flimsy and dangerous boat , and the gang be make profit of hundred of million of pound . we should not be let they get away with it . that be why we need to work across border to go after they . migration play a significant part in our economy . in the Lake district , 66 % of hospitality and tourism business report that they be fail to meet demand because of a lack of workforce capacity . migration be part of the answer . will the Home Secretary listen to leader of the Cumbria hospitality and tourism economy and meet they to discuss option such as a youth mobility visa scheme ? it would enable we to shore up our workforce , which be brilliant , but far too small . all I would say to the hon . Gentleman be that there be some deep and fundamental problem in the UK labour market that we have inherit . he be talk about workforce shortage when net migration have quadruple and when overseas recruitment for work have quadruple . I think that show that there be a much big challenge in the workforce , where we have a huge drop in training and where we do not have proper strategic approach to the workforce . that be what we should be put in place instead . we have to look at the issue around training , pay and condition and at the key sector to make sure they get support , rather than continually look to increase migration instead . the former Conservative Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , have say that the country be " right to be furious " about his party ' s record on immigration , and that the Conservatives need to own their failure and change . what be there , in the Conservatives ' obsession with their failed and costly Rwanda programme , to show that they have heed his warning and change their approach ? my hon . friend be right . the former Immigration Minister and now shadow Justice Secretary also say that the net migration figure be " a day of shame for the Conservative Party . " they might need a little bit more shame on the Opposition Front Benches . can the Home Secretary set out how many hotel have be move into housing asylum seeker since 4 July ? will she commit to update the House regularly as to which hotel have be repurpose for that use ? I know that the Immigration Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , have already answer some of the question that the right hon . Gentleman have raise . he be right to express concern about asylum hotel . there be now 220 asylum hotel in use . he will know that his government open 400 asylum hotel . we have have to deal with the collapse in asylum decision making . in the last few month before the general election , the Conservatives go down to just a few hundred decision be take a week , rather than thousand of decision each week . that be deeply damaging , and we have have to deal with it , so that we can turn thing around by clear the asylum backlog and end hotel use . it be clear that my right hon . Friend inherit a chaotic immigration situation from the last government , and I commend she on the work she be do . she rightly focus on international co - operation , but principally on removal . do she accept that , in a world as interconnect as ours , migration can no long adequately be manage by treaty that be now more than 70 year out of date ? we need to co - operate with our international partner , to create a new structure and a new settlement for manage global migration . my hon . friend make important point , because country do need to work together and to look far more at some of the cause of migration . that be why we set out at the European Political Community summit an additional £ 80 million fund to look at early prevention work and how we address some of the cause of migration in the first place , as well as the law enforcement response that we need to go after the criminal gang . the absurd and chaotic Brexit — fully support by those on the Government Front Bench — be suppose to finally satisfy this obsession , but end free movement have only increase the number of people come here . what be the point of their Brexit , and why have it so spectacularly fail to manage to get a hold on immigration to the UK ? the previous Conservative Government make a decision in 2021 to launch what be in effect a free market approach to immigration . they make it much easy to recruit from abroad and they incentivise employer to recruit from abroad by introduce a 20 % wage discount at the same time that they be cut training and support . the consequence be that , since 2021 , we have indeed see a massive increase in overseas recruitment . as the same time , we have see a drop in people get training and support to work in the UK . I welcome the frankness that the Government have bring to their assessment of the situation and the setting out of clear measure . as we have hear , criminal gang be cause untold misery to people all around the world . will the Home Secretary expand on the measure that we be take with european neighbour in particular to crack down on these criminal gang once and for all ? we have be work with other european country . we have a new agreement in place with Italy to go after the illicit finance that underpin many of the criminal gang . the work that Prime Minister Meloni have do already have help to significantly reduce Mediterranean crossing . we be work with Italy , and we think that work be important . we be also work with Germany on supply chain and with Bulgaria on supply chain , include on how boat and engine be be move across Europe . we be of course work with France on tackle the organise gang , include some of the iraqi - kurdish gang operate in northern France , so that we can pursue those gang network to prevent dangerous crossing . the asylum hotel in Cheshunt in my constituency be already put pressure on strained public service , include local GP surgery . the Government ' s manifesto commit to close asylum hotel . can I ask the Secretary of State when she will honour that promise , or will the list of broken promise to the british people get long ? we be determined to clear the backlog so that we can end asylum hotel . in 2019 , there be no asylum hotel , so it be the previous Government who increase and open about 400 of they . there be still around 220 asylum hotel in place . we have have to deal with the shocking crashing of the asylum system . just before the election , the previous Government effectively stop a whole load of caseworker from make decision on asylum case and push the backlog up — we also have to clear that over the summer . that mean that we can make progress on bring the backlog down , so that we can start to clear hotel and ensure that we save money for the taxpayer . we have already save the taxpayer hundred of million of pound this year . be the Home Secretary as surprised as I to hear that , as part of the £ 700 million spend by the previous Government on the fail Rwanda scheme , the package of support that the four volunteer who go to Kigali receive include five year of free housing , free food , free private healthcare , free university education and free vocational training , all at a cost of £ 150 , 000 per person ? do she agree that Rwanda be in no way a deterrent but a colossal waste of money ? my hon . friend be right . it be a total , shocking waste of money to send just four volunteer — and the Government have 1 , 000 people work on the Rwanda scheme . that be 1 , 000 people who could have be work on enforcement , return or clear the backlog , or take action to pursue the criminal gang . instead , they be work on a scheme that run for two year and send just four volunteer . I agree with the Home Secretary , who be right to highlight that 2023 be a year of shame for a Government who have repeatedly promise net migration of ten of thousand a year , not nearly a million ; perhaps they will never be forgive for it . but I also see that in 2023 asylum claim be make by 84 , 000 people . everyone talk about the small boat and yet 69 % of those 84 , 000 do not come across the english channel in boat . will she tell I , please : where do they come from ? be they overstayer ? be they on student visa ? who be the 69 % ? we be clear that net migration need to come down after the huge increase . we also need to restore order to the asylum system . part of that be go after the criminal gang who be undermine border security and put life at risk , and tackle the small boat crossing . there be also an issue about the increase of in - country asylum application . we have instigate a review into that , to get to the bottom of what be happen and why . we find that the previous Government ' s decision to remove visa requirement for visitor lead to a significant increase in asylum application from people come as visitor . we have reverse those change make by the previous Conservative Government and reintroduce visitor visa requirement for those country . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the Kurdistan region in Iraq , I welcome my right hon . friend ' s recent visit and the agreement that flow from that . do she agree that support from the UK and ally for the Kurdistan region in Iraq across all sphere , plus the effort of our own Government and ally to strengthen relationship between Baghdad and Erbil , foster great prosperity and stability , help to reduce corruption and thereby help to alleviate some of the push factor that cause migration to this country in the first place ? my hon . friend make an important point . I thank the Kurdish Regional Government for their hospitality and welcome , and the iraqi Government for their welcome and support for my visit last week . we have important and serious discussion with both the regional authority and the iraqi Government on a range of issue such as tackle organise immigration crime , but also the positive work that both the Iraqi Government and the Kurdish Regional Government want to do to support economic prosperity . they repeatedly make the point that security be the foundation of economic growth . that be why they be so keen to tackle organise immigration crime and other form of organise crime that can end up undermine their security and economic opportunity . give the promise make at the general election , the opening of more asylum hotel be deeply regrettable . as the Home Secretary seek alternative accommodation to be able to close down those hotel , will she assure the House that she will not overdo her request of other Government Departments , in particular the Ministry of Defence , which historically have be very helpful in find surplus accommodation to house migrant ? I hope that she agree that enough be enough , and that she will not disadvantage service family in their accommodation need . I agree about the importance of support our armed force , include housing for armed force family . that will always be important . the number of asylum decision have drop by 70 % in the space of just six month — a massive drop . that crash of asylum decision increase the backlog over the summer . we have now manage to get asylum decision back up to where they be , and the asylum caseworker back in place and take those decision rapidly . that put we in a position to be able to get the backlog down so that we can take action on asylum hotel , and we be already save hundred of million of pound this year compare with the previous Government . in the run - up to the summer general election , my constituent be hugely concerned about the number of small boat cross the channel ; and little wonder , because the conservative party leave office in the middle of the bad year ever for small boat arrival — 18 % high than in 2023 , 5 % high than in 2022 and more than double the level in 2021 . the Labour Government come into office just under five month ago , and the number of arrival be now low than in 2021 , more than a third low than in 2022 , and only 15 % high than 2023 , rather than the 19 % that we inherit . do the Home Secretary agree that that all sound like pretty decent progress ? my hon . friend be right . the first six month of the year see a record high for that season ; of course , we know that crossing be seasonal , but it be a record high for the first half of the year . if we have carry on at that record high level — high than 2023 , 2022 and 2021 — we would have thousand more people in the asylum system right now , and we would have have to deal with thousand more dangerous boat crossing . when we take office in the middle of the year , some independent projection say that there could have be as many as 50 , 000 crossing this year , and that have not happen . that be no real consolation , though , because so many life be still be lose , and so many gang be still make huge profit , which be why we have to take action on the gang . we have to strengthen border security and prevent so many life be put at risk . effective technology be at the centre of an excellent asylum and immigration system . I be at the Minister ' s drop - in on e - visas , which I be sure many of we welcome , where there be assurance that those who be transition from a paper visa but have not yet have their e - visa would not be disadvantage . however , we have see report today suggest otherwise , which be of particular concern to the afghan community , and particularly to those who have come to the UK since the rise of the Taliban . can the Secretary of State give the assurance that people will not be disadvantaged if their e - visa be not process by the end of January ? the hon . Lady will know that the Minister with responsibility for e - visas be work immensely hard to ensure that any concern be deal with . we be clear that no one should be disadvantage by the transfer to the new electronic system , which will strengthen security and the information that people rightly have . we need to ensure that the transfer happen as smoothly as possible . I urge the hon . Lady to continue to keep in touch with the Minister so that we can ensure that every issue within the system and with the transfer to e - visas be properly address . when the truly shocking net migration figure be publish last week , the shadow Justice Secretary and former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , say on Twitter — now know as x — that it be a " day of shame for the Conservative Party " because it have " let the country down badly " and cause immense , last harm with immigration policy that have leave Britain poorer . do the Home Secretary agree that it be well to train our own people in this country than to repeat the fail Tory policy that leave we all poorer ? my hon . friend be right . we need a complete overhaul of the way that training and support for work take place to get UK resident back into work and give they the training they need , and to ensure that we do not have this chaos in the net migration system . I think the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , also say that the Conservatives will only rebuild trust once they own up to their failure — perhaps a little more own up be what we need to hear today . in the previous Parliament , Labour consistently vote down strict border law and sign bleeding - heart letter try to prevent the deportation of criminal from this country . in government , they have cancel restriction on family route and remove the offshore processing option . I therefore confess that I be deeply sceptical that Labour will be successful in control immigration . the Iraq deal sound promise as a headline but , truly , what difference will £ 500 , 000 to the iraqi Government make to the volume of channel crossing ? I say to the hon . Lady that we be establish new co - operation and network not just across Europe , but beyond . we know that significant iraqi - kurdish gang network operate in northern France , which the Kurdistan regional authority and iraqi Government be particularly concerned about . they be concerned about the route back into northern Iraq , and about both the impact such activity be have on their country and the impact that we be concern about — that it be happen in the channel . that be why get law enforcement work in partnership together be at the heart of this agreement , and that be what we can now build on . this agreement be the first that Iraq have make with any country to tackle organise immigration , crime and border security . I welcome Iraq ' s support for this agreement , and its determination and commitment to it . we need to work in partnership with Iraq on it . resident in Portsmouth North be concerned about the rise cost of housing asylum seeker . although it be not what we would have want as a Government , it be good that we have be open and apologetic about have to house , on a temporary basis , these people because of the inactivity of the previous Government . do the Home Secretary agree that this be in stark contrast to the previous Government , who never explain and never apologise , even when there be more than 400 hotel , cost £ 9 million a day ? can she say when we expect the cost of housing asylum seeker to reduce ? we be already save hundred of million of pound this year from the asylum accommodation budget as a result of the decision we have take to restart asylum decision making and get the system work again so that we can start clear the backlog . have we not do so , and have we carry on with the previous Government ' s policy , those cost would have soar far . that be unfair on the british taxpayer , as well as be the sign of a broken asylum system . we will continue to do that work . we expect to make hundred of million of pound more in saving next year . in total , the assessment be that over the next few year , we will save £ 4 billion from the previous Government ' s fail scheme . what deterrent will the Home Secretary implement for those asylum claimant who have destroy their paper and purport to come from regime to which they can not possibly be return ? one of the reason we be talk to the Iraqi Government and the Kurdistan regional authority about biometric and support biometric roll - out be that they make it easy to prevent people delay either asylum claim be resolve or return be agree by not have paper . where there be biometric in place , it make thing much fast . that be why we should be work to extend they and why we be work to establish strong return arrangement with other country . that be what we have be do throughout the summer and why we have see such a substantial increase in return this summer , as a result of our put in the additional resource that be fail to achieve anything when they be put into the Rwanda scheme . we be now put they into do practical thing as part of return and enforcement . in his response , the shadow Home Secretary say that £ 500 , 000 be not a lot of money . that be probably because he think that for £ 100 , 000 more you could give free education , housing , university education and vocational training to just four volunteer go to Rwanda . what an absolute waste of money ! do the Home Secretary agree that it be a far well deterrent to actually process people and send they abroad , or should we continue with the fallacy that as a nation we should be bribe people to send they over to Rwanda ? my hon . friend be certainly right that the £ 700 million for four people be absolutely not good value for money at all . we will always make sure that we be look for good value for money , as well as get result . the previous Administration can not , Pontius Pilate - like , wash their hand of this immigration mess that have place intolerable burden on mostly disadvantaged working - class community , but the Government now have responsibility for this matter . they can not pass it back again : they have responsibility . what I would like to hear from the Home Secretary today — despite what have happen since July , with 20 , 000 more immigrant come into the United Kingdom , hotel place up and foreign criminal still waltz through the court claim human right to stop themselves be remove — be what she intend to do to remove the pull factor that encourage people to see Britain as an easy touch . one of the thing we be do be crack down on illegal working and the exploitation by employer of people come to the UK who be often not here lawfully and as a result be be exploit by employer . that have be too easy for employer to do for far too long . that be why we see an increase of more than 30 % in illegal working visit over the summer , a significant increase in the number of arrest as a result of those visit , and a consequent significant increase in penalty for employer . we will continue to take much strong action , such as remove the ability to sponsor worker from any employer who be breach important employment law . we need to ensure that every bit of the system be be tackle and address , so that we can have a system that be fair and have public support . the Home Secretary end her statement by say that she want " serious international partnership " , but when press on that by the shadow Home Secretary , she seem reluctant to say whether she would explore removal or processing agreement with third country , as advocate by the President of the European Commission . who be actually serious on this question : this Government or Ursula von der Leyen ? we have be very clear about the importance of work with other country , both on tackle gang and on address some of the wide issue that we face . we have always say that we will look at anything that work , and we will look at practical measure . we have recognise that different approach be be take by different country . the Italy - Albania agreement , for example , provide for a fast - track return arrangement , enable those from predominantly safe country to be move to Albania . we think it be possible to introduce similar fast - track arrangement that have not be properly in place in this country for a long time , and we should be consider those as well . More than 210 , 000 Ukrainians have be host in the UK since Russia ' s full - scale invasion , which be a testament to the generosity of british host , but the million of Ukrainians who have leave Ukraine for Europe be just a fraction of the number who might flee across Europe if Russia be successful in break through and occupy all of Ukraine . do the Secretary of State consider it to be in the UK ' s own national interest that we confiscate all Russia ' s frozen asset , offer the proceed to the defence of Ukraine and prevent further displacement ? as the hon . Member will know , we strongly support Ukraine , give what it have have to endure and go through . we continue to condemn the Putin Government for the thing that they have do and the impact that they be have on Ukraine , and we will continue to support Ukraine in every way possible . a constituent write to I recently ask if I could get a hurry - up on his application under the EU settlement scheme . it turn out that he be subject to a deportation order , and that we actually do deport he in 2018 , but he manage to get back into the country somehow and to make his application under the EUSS . the Home Office tell I last week that it could not deport he until his EUSS application have be play out , include all the appeal . he make the application in 2020 , and it be now nearly the end of 2024 . in a spirit of bipartisanship , may I suggest that the Home Secretary should change the rule with a stroke of her pen , and that anyone who be subject to a deportation order should simply be deport ? in a similar spirit , may I suggest that if she can get it do by Friday , I will gladly drive he to the airport myself ? the last Government have 14 year — or at least four year , since the EU settlement scheme be introduce — to deal with some of these issue . we take very seriously the need to speed up and improve enforcement of return for those who have no right to be here . the immigration system and the asylum system can only work and command public confidence if the rule be respect and enforce . that mean that if someone do not have a right to be here , there should be proper enforcement . we be work to speed up enforcement , which be why there be a significant increase in return over the summer , but we will continue to do so , and we will continue to consider what further amendment can be make to improve matter . the Home Secretary have quite rightly lambaste the absolute failure of the last government on mass immigration , but could she comment on whether people in the Home Office will be hold accountable for allow system and control to crumble in the last five year , and on whether people in the Office for National Statistics will be hold accountable for get their number wrong by almost a quarter of a million people in just one year ? Conservative Ministers make policy decision that they ask Home Office official to implement . fundamentally , the Conservative Government need to take responsibility for policy decision that they make in 2021 , which lead to a big increase in migration for work , for example , and a big increase in the net migration number , at the same time as training be be cut in the UK . that have have damaging consequence for confidence and trust , but also for the functioning of the UK economy and labour market , because we should be do far more to train people in everything from engineer to construction . there be a whole series of different area where we should increase training here in the UK . will the Home Secretary confirm how many country deal be be work on to ensure that people can be return to their country of origin , and when do she expect they to have a material impact on the level of migration to the UK ? some of the work that we be do with different country be about speed up exist return arrangement , which sometimes do not work effectively enough . sometimes it be about relatively practical improvement to exist arrangement that take far too long or have too many hurdle . we be already do that , which be why we have a significant increase in return over the summer . it be why we organise a series of charter flight , include the three large charter return flight in UK history , which have all be organise since the general election as part of the practical work that we be do , step by step , to increase enforcement and return . while we be reassure by the previous answer that the Home Secretary be committed to increase the processing of asylum claim to clear the backlog , the liberal Democrats would push she to go far and fast . will she consider our call to end the ban on asylum seeker work , and reduce the time limit to three month so that they be able to contribute to their cost of living , integrate into society and start to pay a fair share within the community that they wish to join ? no , I do not think that be the right thing to do . we need to clear the backlog , speed up decision making and ensure that those who do not have the right to be here be swiftly return . where we have have people arrive from Ukraine or Hong Kong , we want to see they work , be part of the economy and be able to support themselves and their family , but where somebody do not have the right to be here , the important thing be to make the system work and make sure that they can swiftly return . village such as Datchet in my constituency be bear the brunt of the fact that 6 , 000 more illegal economic migrant be stay in asylum hotel since this government come into office . these single adult male represent something like 2 % of the village ' s population , so what assessment have the Home Secretary make of the extra pressure on vital local service , particularly gps and dentist ? what assurance can she give my constituent that they will not miss out on vital appointment as a result of the sudden demographic change ? we think that use asylum hotel be the wrong way to respond to the system that we have , which be why the increase in the backlog as a result of the previous Conservative Government ' s collapse in decision making have be so damaging . that be why we now have additional caseworker in place and asylum decision back at the level that they be previously , so that we can clear the backlog and make sure that we do not need to use asylum hotel . the previous Government open 400 asylum hotel and quadruple the cost of the asylum accommodation system . that have a shocking impact on the taxpayer , and we be already save money by bring the cost down . we need a firm but fair and compassionate approach on immigration , as I think everyone in the House would agree . human right non - governmental organisation have warn that people be return to Iraq could be at risk of human right abuse , so can the Home Secretary tell we what reassurance she have have on that point ? will human right always be a red line when she be strike migration deal in future ? the agreement that we reach and sign with the iraqi Government explicitly commit to support for international law , international humanitarian law and human right , and this be one of the issue that we discuss as part of the meeting . the hon . Gentleman will also know that every decision in the asylum system be make on its individual merit to ensure that , where somebody be be reject from the asylum system and be be return , it be safe and appropriate to do so . but we do believe that there be many people currently in the immigration enforcement system who should be safely return to their home , and that be why we have increase the process around enforcement and return this summer . to end , we have Jim Shannon . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker — I be sure that this be a thrill for everybody . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . the failure of the previous Government may undoubtedly be a reason for this uncontrollable migration number , but my constituent in Northern Ireland — who have have their winter fuel allowance remove and who be see an increase in the cost of living that be push many work family towards the poverty line at warp speed — be interested not in a blame game but in get immigration sort and the boat stop . what will the Government do to achieve a reasonable immigration policy ? how they will deal with those who have not come here legally and who do not deserve to be here ahead of the family from Afghanistan , who be instrumental in the war effort there and who be still wait in the correct procedural queue rather than jump off boat ? enforce return for those with no right to be here be up 19 % this summer , and voluntary return be up 14 % . we think that those should increase . on the overall immigration system , we will be set out in a White Paper new proposal to well link the Migration Advisory Committee , the skill body across the UK and other organisation to identify strong control that be also link to strong training requirement , so that as well as have the visa control in place , we also have clear requirement to train here in the UK to ensure that we can tackle the big increase in net migration for work that we see over the last five year . I think the hon . Member would probably agree that most people across the country want to see strong border security and a properly control and manage immigration and asylum system . we have not have that for too long , but those be the proper control and fair system that we need to get back in place so that we can fix the foundation and everybody can have confidence in the system for the future . that be the end of that statement . I will give the Front Benchers a few moment to shuffle over quickly and quietly . north - West Syria last week , we witness a major new offensive by opposition group in north - west Syria . on Wednesday 27 November , Hay ' at Tahrir al - Sham — HTS — along with several other opposition force start to move towards Aleppo . by late Friday night , they be in control of the majority of Aleppo city . they have also capture Saraqeb , which intersect Syria ' s most strategic motorway . as I stand here , we do not know if HTS will succeed in push far south towards the city of Hama , which sit approximately 100 km south of Aleppo . what we do know be that these development mark the big shake - up of the conflict line in Syria since 2020 . in response , russian airstrike have increase on Idlib province — HTS ' s heartland — and on Aleppo . there have also be report of iranian - align group move into Syria to back up the Assad regime . event be move quickly , and the trajectory be unclear . my primary concern , in the immediate term , be the impact on civilian and , of course , the delivery of humanitarian assistance . it will be particularly worrying if we see more large - scale attack against civilian by the regime or Russia . I call directly on all actor involve , include Iran and Russia , to act in accordance with international humanitarian law , and not to target civilian or civilian infrastructure , include health facility . humanitarian actor should be grant full humanitarian access on the ground . in response to recent development , we have be rapidly engage key partner and interlocutor to assess the situation and co - ordinate response . I speak early to my turkish counterpart , and I reiterate my concern about the potential for new escalation and the impact on civilian . I will be travel to the region this weekend , where I plan to engage with a range of partner on the late development , and on Wednesday I will be speak to the UK - fund White Helmets , a syrian organisation operate in north - west Syria , to well understand how it and other non - governmental organisation be respond to the situation and support people on the ground . the UK issue two statement over the weekend , include one with the US , Germany and France call for de - escalation and the protection of civilian to prevent further displacement and disruption of humanitarian access . this be the right focus as the situation develop , but the current fighting underscore that the situation in Syria be not sustainable . thirteen year into the conflict , no side have win or can decisively win on the battlefield , include Assad . a frozen conflict be not the same as peace . Syrians continue to flee the country , drug and arm smuggle from Syria threaten the region , and Iran and Russia continue to exert influence , prop up the syrian regime . the underlying reason for this conflict remain unaddressed . recent development in the north - west only underscore the urgent need for a Syrian - lead political solution to the conflict in Syria , in line with UN Security Council resolution 2254 . we urge all party to re - engage with this process and the effort of UN Special Envoy Pedersen . I recognise that this escalation raise other question . first , on consular assistance . I make it clear that my Department ' s long - stand advice be against all travel to Syria due to the ongoing conflict and unpredictable security condition . Consular support be not available within Syria , and all british embassy service in Damascus be suspend . I reiterate our long - stand advice : any british national in Syria should leave the country by any practical mean . we be closely monitor the wide humanitarian situation . in north - west Syria , 4 . 1 million people , 80 % of whom be woman or child , be already in need prior to this escalation . there be currently no humanitarian corridor for those fleeing , which increase terribly the risk to their safety . the UK have spend over £ 4 billion since 2011 , our large ever response to a single humanitarian crisis . in October , we announce a furth £ 3 million to provide lifesave emergency assistance and healthcare to the most vulnerable citizen flee the Lebanon conflict into Syria . many of they will be in north - west Syria . too many Syrians have tragically be displace multiple time as a result of conflict . they bear the brunt of horrific violence . sadly , more still will be displace by this late escalation , and I underline my concern about what we might see should Russia or the Assad regime start a campaign of bombardment on the area . the UK have stand by the syrian people , and we will continue to do so . our assistance aim to improve humanitarian condition for those in the dire need . we work with local and international NGOs and UN organisation to provide health , nutrition , child protection , water , sanitation and education service throughout Syria , include in the north - west . as the situation develop , we be work closely with humanitarian actor on the ground to understand the impact and the need create by the late escalation . we call on all party to ensure full and unhindered humanitarian access throughout the affect area and to protect civilian . for too long , the Syria conflict have be consider frozen . but if we have learn one thing in recent year , it be that there be no such thing . it be incumbent upon we to use this moment to find new momentum for the political track and to address the underlying cause of this conflict . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank the Minister for his statement . these development in Syria be deeply serious and threaten further brutality and terror in a region under enormous pressure and suffering . we have see an extremist rebel group make rapid progress and take territory in Aleppo , and the first russian airstrike in Aleppo since 2016 . we know that there have be fight in Idlib and Hama too . civilian life continue to be lose and home continue to be destroy . as the Minister say , there have be more than a decade of turmoil and tragedy for the innocent people of Syria , which be beyond disturbing . with the eye of the world focus on other conflict , we can not forget the brutality , the loss of life and the destruction that have take place in Syria , or its consequence . More than half a million people have already be kill , with million injure or maim , with some be victim of chemical weapon . how many more innocent life must be sacrifice to a savage dictator ' s thirst for power or at the whim of bloodthirsty terrorist ? the civil war in Syria be one of the most harrowing issue I have to deal with in government , and right hon . and hon . member who have be in the House since 2011 will know from our debate how this conflict have disrupt the region and contribute to the global migration crisis . like other member , I have meet Syrians in country such as Jordan and Lebanon who speak of their fear , concern and trauma . both country be under great pressure right now , particularly Lebanon . People ' s life have be turn upside down by this conflict , with those catch on the berm between Jordan and Syria face terrible atrocity . the calculated and cruel barbarism of the Assad regime and the brutality of the terrorist group have be horrify at every stage of this conflict . they have hold our belief in tolerance and freedom in contempt , and we should never turn a blind eye . I have be very clear that when red line be cross in this conflict , the UK must be part of a firm response . we be in a dangerous place once again , and the situation could become even more severe . I see the statement issue by the Government and our partner in America , Germany and France over the weekend , and I hope the Minister can answer some of my question , as we need an honest assessment of this conflict . can the Minister tell we his assessment of the real threat that hay ' at Tahrir al - Sham pose to our interest ? in his statement , he comment on the drug and arm smuggling through Syria , which we have know about for some time . our dear friend and ally in Jordan have be raise this issue , so can he tell we what action he plan to take with international and neighbouring ally to address this ? with further instability and conflict in Syria , there be also a risk that criminal activity will proliferate . instability also fuel extremism , and not just abroad but here at home too . can the Minister therefore outline the risk that dangerous extremist in Syria pose to the security of prison in the area ? and can he confirm that there be cross - Government co - ordination to review the security and defence implication and the terrorism risk ? the House will know that the UK have be in the vanguard of the humanitarian response , of which we should all be proud . the previous Government invest £ 4 billion in support that have reach million of people , save life with food , shelter , water , medicine , vaccination and improve sanitation . can the Minister explain what this Government will do to ensure that aid get into the hand of the right people , not the wrong people ? I remember the day when we see an aid convoy blow up , which disrupt aid when there be no humanitarian corridor . what be he do to leverage our aid budget to respond to these new and recent development ? can he also tell we whether aid be get into the area affect by the current surge in violence ? how could this new escalation impact on the migratory pressure in Syria , and what will that mean for neighbouring area ? we know that the Assad regime have be bail out by the Russians , the Iranians and Hezbollah , but with Russia now focus on its illegal invasion of Ukraine , and with Iran ' s presence in the region now deplete , what be the Minister ' s assessment of how this will affect the dynamic of the current insurgency ? finally , do he have a vision for what future we should now be discuss with regard to Syria , and for how we can get there ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . she raise a lot of issue and I will endeavour to address as many as I can . the right hon . Lady ask what regional co - ordination be under way . we be talk to partner in all the regional capital , as she would expect , but let I be clear about who we be not talk to . we do not talk to HTS , which be a proscribe terrorist organisation — it be proscribe for a reason and remain proscribe , and we be concern by many of the public statement it have make . we be not talk to the Assad regime ; the right hon . Lady paint well the horror that Assad and his regime have perpetrate across Syria . however , we be talk to all those with an interest . as I say , I will travel to the region at the weekend and undertake further consultation . I be talk to NGOs and other actor on the ground . the right hon . Lady ask whether access be sufficient . as she will have see , the frontline be move very quickly and we be concerned that practical access for aid agency will be difficult to maintain . we be work with our partner to try to maintain access through established humanitarian corridor , and to ensure that a population that be already at great risk will be provide with the assistance it need . at a moment of such quick change , that be difficult , but we be work day and night to ensure that happen . the right hon . Lady ask about cross - Government co - ordination . we be very alive to the terrorist threat that could emanate from Syria , not least from Daesh , which may be down but be not out . we continue to monitor those issue very closely , include the status of prison , which she refer to . on the dynamic in the region , clearly the region be in very significant flux . the position of Iran and Russia be in flux , which be why I call on they and say clearly that they must not conduct the large - scale attack on civilian that I fear be their go - to in such a situation . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . during the syrian civil war , million of Syrians move to Turkey and southern Lebanon , so they have already be displace once . in Turkey , Erdo ğ an have be encourage they to go home to Syria , and in southern Lebanon they have have to move back into Syria to flee from the invasion . multiple trauma have be suffer by multiple innocent family , who have no guilt in any of this but be simply victim again and again . when family face such multiple trauma , what assistance be the british Government able to give they ? it be incredibly difficult to provide appropriate and sustained care in north - west Syria . as my right hon . Friend say , many people have be displace , not necessarily by the current conflict but by the Lebanon conflict , which we have discuss in the House recently . People who have be displace on multiple occasion be in a situation of acute vulnerability . whether they have be displace by the Lebanon conflict or the conflict in north - west Syria , we be extremely concerned and we will do what we can . the assessment be ongoing . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I join hon . member across the House in express our deep concern at the toll of the late outbreak of conflict on the innocent civilian of Syrian . they have bear the brunt of more than a decade of horrific conflict , and we should not forget the devastating impact of the 2023 earthquake on part of the country as well . I offer my support to the Government in urge all party to uphold international law . it be vital that the Government do all they can to prevent a deterioration of the humanitarian situation in Syria , and in the region more broadly . I speak this afternoon to the jordanian ambassador to the UK . he underscore the potential impact of this conflict on his country , with its long and porous border with Syria . with an estimate 1 . 5 million syrian refugee in Lebanon and another 1 . 3 million in Jordan , provide necessary support to neighbouring country that host those refugee be crucial . yet thank to successive cut to the international development budget , include by the new Government , too often we approach such crisis with one hand tie behind our back . will the Minister set out what new development assistance we be provide in response and whether he be seek additional emergency fund from the Treasury ? it appear that the fighting reflect interference in Syria by both Iran and Russia , as the Minister have say , each seek to serve their interest during a period of instability . there be a very real risk that this new conflict in the north - west of the country may create a vacuum in the south of Syria that allow terrorist group such as al - Nusra , al - Qaeda and Daesh to re - establish . do the Minister share that concern ? the UK must hold other to account and press for an end to the use of proxy that show no regard for the right of civilian population or the role of international law . will the Minister say how the UK be use its influence in international organisation and with our ally to achieve that ? we be conduct rapid assessment about where the need will be , in a situation that be rapidly change . as I mention , we announce further funding for north - west Syria in October . it be not yet clear what further allocation will be require . I will update the House when those assessment be complete and our plan be clear . on counter - terrorism , I agree with the hon . member . as I mention in my response to the shadow Secretary of State , there remain an extant threat from Daesh and other group from Syria . we will continue to monitor those issue very closely . our first responsibility as a Government be the safety of british national ; that will continue to be the case and we take our responsibility seriously . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . I can not process that this conflict have be go on for 13 year . from where I be sit , I have a direct line of sight to the memorial shield for our former colleague from Batley and Spen . when she come to the House , she do so much to draw hon . member ' attention to the plight of civilian , but thing have only get bad since then . it be already the bad humanitarian crisis in the world , with nearly 17 million people in need of humanitarian assistance and 90 % of family live in poverty . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of the most recent escalation on the level of need of those in Syria and those who have flee ? will the UK urge the UN to activate its emergency response plan ? and — this be the bottom line — be the Government prepare to increase official development assistance on humanitarian support ? we be talk to the United Nations about its plan . I will not give undue comment on operational matter , but the UN ' s system be under strain in north - west Syria , as my hon . friend would expect . in the come day I hope to be able to say more about what assessment we have make and what action we will take about whether there will be an increase in ODA ; that will be a question more properly for the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) , who be in the region now . I be conscious that there be significant need across the middle east that we be try to meet as well we can . I call the former Minister . Assad and his family have reportedly go to Moscow , which be probably significant . let we hope that he stay there ; they deserve each other . however , HTS be very much bad . as HTS take territory , people will be on the move in very large number . historically , the United Nations have manage the situation in northern Syria and triage those who be claim asylum . this country have be generous in take refugee , particularly from the most disadvantaged group : old people , woman and child . what discussion have the Minister have with the United Nations and will that process continue , because I feel sure that the british people will want to continue to be generous ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point about minority group . I underline to all party to this conflict , whether they be proscribe in the UK or not , that minority group across north Syria , of which there be many , deserve to be protect and have a right to exist . we be look closely at the action of all conflict party , regardless of whether we have direct contact with they , and it be incredibly important that minority right in northern Syria be protect . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s question about the United Nations , to be frank there be , at this moment , panicked movement across frontline . it be probably too early to be able to address the kind of question he raise , but I be sure we will be talk about this in due course . my mind also turn to the former Member for Batley and Spen , my friend Jo , and the cry she make in this Chamber to do something to help the people of Syria . back then , we see the widespread use of chemical weapon in the last moment when Assad ' s regime be under pressure . what step be the Government take to monitor any war crime take place in this moment ? by way of deterrence now , will the Minister reaffirm that the British Government still believe there should be accountability for the use of chemical weapon a decade ago in Syria ? I recognise the work of the former Member for Batley and Spen , our friend Jo Cox , and my hon . friend himself , who have be involve in these issue , include accountability , for some time . I agree there must of course be accountability for the use of chemical weapon by Syria . I meet as Minister the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to ensure that proper measure be in place and to assist it in its effort to ensure that treaty convention be uphold . in August , I instruct UK official to join an expert - level working group convene a geographically diverse group of state , academic and technical expert to explore international legal mechanism that could pursue individual criminal responsibility for chemical weapon use . I call on all party in north - west Syria at the moment to be mindful that we be watch question of chemical weapon use incredibly carefully . the Syrian Democratic Forces have be an incredibly important ally to the United Kingdom and many other country in pursue and degrade Islamic State over a long period of time . will the Minister assure the House that we will continue to give they as much support , include humanitarian support , as possible to establish and continue the stability that there have be in north - east Syria as a result of their work ? the Syrian Democratic Forces be a member of the global coalition against Daesh , and they play an important role . we engage with they regularly — both the SDF themselves and the democratic Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria — and we will continue to do so . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and particularly the emphasis on protect civilian . I associate myself with the remark of my hon . friend the Members for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) and for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) in pay tribute to Jo . I be convinced that if she be still with we , british policy on Syria would have be markedly well than it unfortunately have be over the past few year . a particular concern over that time be that debate in this Chamber and beyond have not have syrian voice . I be grateful to hear that the Minister , and the International Development Committee , will meet the White Helmets , which be fantastic . would he also agree to meet I and the syrian British Consortium — a group of syrian activist in the UK — to discuss our policy towards Syria and how their voice can shape the debate go forward ? yes . I would like to build on the question pose by the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) . between 2014 and 2020 , almost all Syrians who be give asylum in the UK apply from the region . the vulnerable person resettlement scheme do not require Syrians to make it to the UK before apply ; the small number who be successful have to apply through Syria ' s neighbour , such as Jordan . do the Minister recognise that this safe and legal route encourage asylum seeker to apply from the region , and it also deter they from make their way across Europe to the UK ? I be sorry ; I be not sure I follow the question . perhaps the Member can have another go . rise — order . the good thing would be to ask for the question in writing so that the Minister can respond — I have do it on your behalf , Minister . I would try to repeat the question , but I do not catch it myself . I hope that it be recognise how interconnect the conflict be in the region , which include connection to Russia , Iran , Israel , Lebanon , Turkey , Iraq and even far afield . this escalation create serious risk not only for the population of the immediate area , but for regional stability . how can we recognise that in our security and diplomatic policy ? what measure be the Government take to look at this collective series of risk that be increasingly interconnect ? my hon . friend be right that the security situation in the region be interlink . clearly , what be happen in Lebanon , in Iran and , indeed , in Moscow , as the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) mention , be have an effect in north - west Syria . I be concern by report of militia group reinforce the syrian regime from Iraq and by report of Hezbollah ' s action in Syria . I assure my hon . friend that we take a regional approach to these issue . I be the Minister responsible for all these area , and we view they in the round . I call Stephen Gethins , whose question will no doubt be very clear . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; hopefully I will be clear in my question . I concur with the Minister ' s reflection on the devastating humanitarian consequence over the past 13 year . on the interconnectivity of conflict , he mention the russian attack , which he will agree be of a similar nature to those we have see elsewhere target civilian infrastructure . as such , what discussion have he have with european partner in particular , give the lack of reliance we may soon have on the United States , when it come to a common approach on any political process , the targeting of disinformation , such as that rightly highlight by the White Helmets , and a humanitarian response to international agency ? we issue a statement jointly with the French and the Germans over the weekend . we remain in close co - ordination on humanitarian matter and , as I think the hon . Member be allude to , on the importance of ensure that the Russians understand that there be a common european position and that we be appal by the kind of target of civilian we have see in north - west Syria and in so many other place by Moscow . I speak today to a contact in the moderate syrian opposition . I would be grateful for the Minister ' s view of my contact ' s assessment that the Assad regime appear weak without its ally ' backing , that many malign actor have notice that event in Aleppo indicate great regime fragility than imagine , and that problem will continue while the regime persist . though recent event be somewhat unexpected , could he expand on how the british Government , work with ally , can foster much - need democratic transition for the syrian people ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s work on issue in the region over many year . we be call for a resolution of this conflict in line with UN Security Council resolution 2254 . it be vital that there be a political resolution . Assad ' s regime have be demonstrate on this day , as on many other day over the last 13 year , not to be the answer . it be not a sustainable position for the Syrians . we call on all party to re - engage with the political process in line with the Security Council resolution . once again , we find the people of Syria squeeze between two vicious regime : the Assad regime and the terrorist . we know from what have happen in the past that they will again be subject to barrel bomb and find themselves cower in basement , that they will be deny basic medical facility and so on , and that they will flee . be we pre - empte where basis and camp might be set up base on what we know from the past about the kind of route that people be likely to take ? more importantly , give that minority have be persecute in such camp , have we put in place arrangement to safeguard they , and , as be suggest early , to assess asylum claim in those camp , rather than force people to flee across Europe in the hope that they get asylum once they reach the coast ? as the frontline move in north - west Syria , it be hard to work out where vulnerable people will settle . we be worried that this late round of conflict will drive further displacement , and that that displacement will head towards Europe . early , the Home Secretary speak a little about the measure that she be take to ensure that those movement towards Europe be do in the most manage way as possible . I share the right hon . member ' s concern about the benighted people of Syria , particularly in north - west Syria , who be under the most extreme pressure . we be undertake rapid assessment of how good to assist they . this appear to be a completely intractable situation , but I wish the Minister well on his trip . as my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) make clear , Iran have its finger in many of the conflict and tension right across the region . I be sure that we all stand in complete solidarity with the ordinary iranian people . I can only conclude that sanction be not work . let I talk about two set of sanction — and I apologise to my hon . friend if I talk about the wrong one . first , we have extant sanction on Syria . I be recently in the House to amend they so that they do not unduly press on humanitarian agency . let I take this opportunity to say that we be do everything we can to ensure that our own sanction regime — vital and important as it be to signal and take real action against the Assad regime — be sufficiently flexible to enable humanitarian work . secondly , our sanction on Iran continue to play an important role in respond to Iran ' s malign action across the region , include in Syria . this scenario be one in which we be consider the less of two evil in Syria , and I do not have enough information to gauge which that may be . however , as always , my concern be about what step the Government be take to secure food and water for 4 million woman and child , and to provide freedom from sexual abuse and depravity . what more can we in this House do collectively to help those in need ? I regret to tell the hon . member that the syrian people have to choose between more than two evil . there be a multiplicity of actor in the region , and that multiplicity make humanitarian access particularly complex at the moment . we be focus on ensure that there be route for humanitarian aid into north - west Syria — that be one of the topic of my discussion with my turkish equivalent early today — and we be keen to ensure that there be humanitarian route out for those who might be affect , include the minority who I know be on the mind of the hon . member and other across the House . christian minority family find themselves face jihadist terrorist and russian airstrike . the family of my Acton constituent Waheba flee to Aleppo 10 year ago from their original city of Al - Tabqah . she wonder whether there could be some kind of ukrainian - style resettlement scheme for Syrians with blood tie here . in these early day of the conflict , we be focus on event in Syria , but I be happy to write to my hon . friend with detail about what else we might do . point of order : Rectification Procedure I call Sammy Wilson on a point of order in connection with the code of conduct , to rectify a failure to declare . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to apologise to the House for my failure to declare an interest when table a parliamentary question to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade on 26 January 2024 . when I table the question , I inadvertently neglect to declare my interest of a fact - find trip to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus , which be pay for by the turkish chamber of commerce . that be a breach of the rule . I apologise to the House for that error . I be grateful to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards for his time and care in rectify this matter . I thank the right hon . member for his point of order . there will be no further point of order on that issue . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek the assistance of the Speaker ' s Office . on Friday 29 November , I receive an email from the parliamentary and diplomatic protection command regard the honeytrap situation that hit Westminster . unfortunately , in that email several other victim be name . it be then leak to journalist and release from that point onwards . I have receive a phone call and an email from the Met to apologise , but I would be grateful if Mr Speaker raise this significant issue with the Met to ensure that lesson be learn and that it do not happen again . I be grateful to the hon . member for give we notice of his point of order . as he know , we do not discuss security matter in the Chamber , but I share his concern , and I can assure he that Mr Speaker will raise the matter with the appropriate people . Deputy Speaker ' s Statement before we begin the main business , I wish to make a short statement on behalf of Mr Speaker about the House ' s sub judice resolution . I understand that the Court of Appeal have recently hand down a judgment on three case relate to motor finance . since the lender involve have seek permission to appeal those case at the Supreme Court , they remain sub judice . Mr Speaker be exercise his discretion to allow reference to those case now and in future proceeding where necessary , as they concern a matter of national importance . Grenfell Tower Inquiry I beg to move , that this House have consider the Grenfell Tower Inquiry phase 2 report . we will never forget the 72 life lose as a result of that fateful night seven year ago , or the family , friend and neighbour they leave behind — some of whom be with we today in the Public Gallery . I know that the whole House will join I in pay tribute to they . it be thank to their awe - inspire tenacity that we have get to where we be today . Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s report lay bare the truth of what happen . that day of truth must now lead to a day of justice . they have wait too long for both , and justice delay be justice deny . there must be full accountability for the failure that lead to the big loss of life in a residential fire since the second world war . the Metropolitan police will continue to have our full support as they carry out their independent investigation . what we do know from Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s report be that this tragedy be entirely avoidable . the bereaved survivor and the immediate community will have to live the rest of their day with the knowledge that they and those dear to they be so comprehensively fail . the report make for the most shocking reading , shine a light on the systemic failure over decade . those who manufacture and sell building product ; the british state ; the local council ; the tenant management organisation ; the London Fire Brigade — every single institution fail to recognise and protect the resident of Grenfell . read the report , I be disgust by the extent to which profit be put before people and by the systemic dishonesty of some of the manufacturer , which have catastrophic result . the family be not listen to — everyone dismiss their concern . the no . 1 priority of any Government be to keep their citizen safe . on the day that the report be publish , the Prime Minister apologise to the family on behalf of the british state for the catalogue of failure that lead to the disaster . he commit to respond to all 58 of the inquiry ' s recommendation within six month . to the bereaved family , the survivor , those in the immediate community and those who be with we in the Chamber today , I reiterate that apology and that commitment . as the Prime Minister say , big change be need . we need system change — reform of a system that be not deliver the safe home it should deliver — but where we can start to make immediate change , I will not wait , and neither will the Government . we be boost the collective effort to make home safe , expect leadership and action from industry , enforce against landlord where necessary , and provide support so that leaseholder and resident can get on with their life . first , I commend the Deputy Prime Minister on her word — they be the word of we all in this House . we welcome those word and the constructive way in which they have be implement today . can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that action will be take to hold to account those company that be guilty ? secondly , when it come to the finding of this report , will the Deputy Prime Minister share with the devolved Administrations everything that be be put in place ? there be lesson to be learn everywhere . to the Deputy Prime Minister ' s left and right be two of her Ministers , the hon . member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) and for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , who have convey that commitment in the past . it would be good to have it on the record from the Deputy Prime Minister . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I be speak to family of the bereaved early , and I make sure to reiterate that , while this Chamber might not be full , I think I speak on behalf of the whole House when I talk about make sure we continue to learn the lesson of Grenfell . as for work with the devolved administration to learn those lesson , that be absolutely important . we have see other fire internationally , across Europe — some of the survivor and the family have tell I this . it be not just here , but abroad too , that people be in this situation , and we need to make sure that we continue to keep our resident safe here . I can announce today that we have publish our response to the emergency evacuation information sharing plus consultation , which provide detail of our new residential personal emergency evacuation plan policy to improve the fire safety and evacuation of disabled and vulnerable resident in high - rise and high - risk residential building . under those proposal , resident with disability or impairment will be entitle to an assessment to identify necessary equipment and adjustment to aid their fire safety and evacuation . fire and rescue service will also receive information on vulnerable resident , in case they need to support their evacuation . we have commit to funding next year to begin this important work by support social housing provider to deliver residential peep for their tenant . future year funding will be confirm at the upcoming spending review , and statutory guidance have be update to provide for evacuation alert system in all new block of flat over 18 metre . this mean that , with our most recent move to provide sprinkler in all new care home — strengthen protection for some of the most vulnerable — we have now address all of the recommendation make by the Grenfell inquiry to the Government in its phase 1 report . the Prime Minister and I , and the rest of this Government , be determined that industry will deliver real change . as the Government , our role be to ensure that that change be deliver — a generational shift in the safety and quality of housing for everyone in this country . we now need leadership from industry to step up the pace on cultural change across the construction sector , but more crucially , we need a cultural shift that be about empower people so that we put people and safety first , not profit . that be what need to change . it be in that spirit , inspire by the Grenfell community ' s incredible strength and tireless campaigning , that we will continue to push industry to deliver the necessary change . let I be crystal clear : we will be hold industry to account as closely as we need to . I know that member across this House share my desire that this report be a catalyst for change . I thank my right hon . friend for give way on the point about industry ' s responsibility . it be right that social housing tenant and leaseholder should not have to bear the burden of rectify these building . individual developer and the development industry have be financially hold to account , at least to a significant degree , but the one part of industry that have get completely away with it so far be the product manufacturer . so far , they have not be ask to pay anything towards rectify the building , and as the Grenfell inquiry show , they be responsible for a lot of the problem . will my right hon . Friend indicate what consideration be be give to a scheme to make sure the product manufacturer pay their fair share of the cost ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be continue to see what measure we can take , and I have take nothing off the table . I be work with my official to make sure that those who be responsible be the one who pay , not taxpayer . important progress have be make since 2017 . fire and rescue service be well train and well prepare for large - scale emergency , improvement have be make to local authority building enforcement , and a poor culture among tenant housing association be be tackle through regulation . however , we must go far . if you speak to those who live in unsafe building , it do not feel like there have be progress — it do not feel like progress to they . they still feel trapped , powerless in the face of a system that be not design for they , so this Government be act . as my right hon . friend have just say , many of my constituent feel very trapped , so I welcome the acceleration of action . however , do she have any timeframe — or will her Department be work up a timeframe — for when that action will have an impact on constituent ? some of mine will be face bankruptcy because of the challenge they have be face . I should declare for the record that I be a leaseholder . the absolute deadline we have put forward as part of our remediation acceleration plan be 2029 , but we want to go much far . the Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , and I have meet with developer and other , and we continue to push really hard on this issue — it have be one of our no . 1 focus . I commend the Deputy Prime Minister on the way she be introduce this debate . there be another group of people who I do not think have be properly consider yet : those who have lose their property , or could not remortgage it or sell it at the market rate , because they have cladding issue . my constituent Crawford Wilson invest his life saving in a property , unaware at the time that it have cladding problem . this mean that he could not secure a remortgage and could not sell it for anything like the market value . it be finally repossess , and he lose hundred of thousand of pound as a result . what advice could the Deputy Prime Minister offer my constituent , and what be she go to do to try to ensure that that situation be put right ? I thank the hon . member for that intervention , which show how the damage cause by the organisation that cladde those building and their systemic failure have have a real impact . that be why , since we be elect in July , my no . 1 focus have be try to make sure that those building be safe and that remediation take place . seven year on be far too long for those building to still be unsafe , and later in my speech I will come on to some of the issue we be try to resolve , include the people who be pay exorbitant insurance rate at this time . seven year on from the Grenfell Tower tragedy , thousand of people across the country still live in home with unsafe cladding . the toll that this have place on thousand of people be , I know , intolerable , with the financial worry , the impact on mental health and the life put on hold . People have be unable to plan their future , and may fear go to sleep in case something happen in the night , as it do in June 2017 . this be a scandal . it permeate every aspect of the life of those who live in unsafe building — building buy or rent in good faith — and it be completely unacceptable . People must be and must feel safe in their home , and we be take a major step towards that with the statement lay in the House today . our remediation acceleration plan set out our ambitious measure to fix building fast , identify those still at risk and ensure that resident be support through the remediation process . we be committed to get home fix fast through the remediation acceleration plan . we aim to do that remediation by 2029 at the late on all residential building of 18 metre or over with unsafe cladding , through a government - fund scheme . by the end of 2029 , every residential building of 11 metre or over with unsafe cladding will either have be remediate or have a date for completion , or the landlord will be liable for severe penalty . we will introduce new legal obligation on landlord to remediate unsafe cladding , with severe penalty , include sanction for inaction . we be back this up with new funding and new guidance for regulator to drive remediation forward . we have a plan to tackle the remediation need in the social sector to support social landlord to ensure that their stock be safe . the building safety levy and developer ’ repayment of Government fund will ensure that the cost of fix these building do not fall on the taxpayer . above all , we will take measure to protect resident and leaseholder , who be the innocent party in this , during remediation . this be our plan , and the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley , will be able to share more of its detail at the end of this debate . developer must play their part in accelerate remediation . they have already commit to fix or pay to fix unsafe building at an estimate cost of more than £ 3 . 4 billion , but progress have be too slow . work have start in few than half of developer ’ building know to be unsafe . that be why we have agree a new joint plan with developer to accelerate remediation and improve the experience of resident , which we be publish today . for the first time , developer be commit to achieve ambitious stretch target to assess all their building by July 2025 , and to start or complete remedial work on all their unsafe building by July 2027 . to meet these stretch target , developer will need to more than double the pace at which they have be assess building and start remediation work so far this year . already more than 25 developer have sign up to the plan , bring more than 95 % of the building that developer need to remediate into scope , which be encouraging . we be often remind just how crucial decisive action to replace unsafe cladding be . just last week , a fire at the Quadrangle building in Greater Manchester , a building that be remediate in 2021 through the ACM private sector clad remediation fund , thankfully do not turn into an emergency situation . if the building have not be remediate , that situation could have be much more serious . to keep resident safe in their home until remediation work have be carry out , we be extend the wake watch replacement fund until the spring of 2026 . I will confirm the long - term plan at the end of the next spending review . too many leaseholder in building that need remediation face unaffordable insurance premium , and this can not continue . I can confirm that from today we will start work with insurer to consider whether , for the duration of the remediation programme , the Government might support industry to reduce fire - relate liability to lower the high insurance bill that leaseholder face . as part of our commitment to minimise unfair cost to leaseholder , I can also announce that we be tackle the problem of the unfair charge from those manage building insurance , and we have launch a consultation on that today . I want the message to go out loud and clear that we expect the industry and those who build and maintain our home to lead the way in create a culture that put the safety of resident first . money be available to make building safe , but , incredibly , some landlord be still fail to act . through their inaction , they be prevent home from be make safe . it be outstandingly neglectful and a dereliction of responsibility . we will not stand for this any long . the Secretary of State may be aware that my constituency have the high number of high - rise building in the entire country . my constituent want reassurance on whether the scope of penalty and sanction for landlord that do not comply and do not follow the remediation acceleration plan will include prevent they from expand their portfolio and continue to build in the manner they be , thus ensure accountability and that the harm they have cause be not reproduce . I have be very clear with developer by ask why somebody would want to purchase a home from a developer that be not see to be take action on remediation . that be why we have get many of they round the table to sign up to this acceleration plan . I do believe that they want to remediate this problem . it have be too long and thing need to change . we be clear that there will be consequence for landlord for fail to act . with the support of Parliament , we will put in place legislation to ensure that they do . the London borough of Tower Hamlets recently become the first local authority in England to successfully obtain a remediation order , and I expect to see many more in the future . to ensure that regulator can act , we will provide £ 33 million in the next financial year to local authority , fire and rescue authority and the Building Safety Regulator , so that they can tackle hundred of case per year . we will provide a furth £ 5 million to the recovery strategy unit to increase its capacity to act . let I be clear that this include , where necessary , pursue landlord in the court . the industry must act now to fix the thousand of unsafe building that must be make safe . it must take seriously its obligation to remediate building and to design , construct and maintain building safely . if you own an unsafe building or you be a landlord who be not fix a building , this Government will make sure that you do , and we will propose legislation to ensure that you do . there can be no more delay , no more excuse and no more obstruction . to make the change that this Government and the Grenfell inquiry demand , we must build effective service that command public trust and confidence , and that be fit for the 21st century . those who flout their responsibility will have nowhere to hide . we will take direct action to hold to account those who be fail to meet their obligation . that be why we have commit to a system - wide reform of the construction product regulatory regime , and why we will consult on robust sanction , penalty and liability against manufacturer . I can update the House that we have make good on our pledge to write to organisation identify by the inquiry for their part in this tragedy . organisation will hold different level of responsibility , but I can announce that we will publish guidance early next year to support the first set of decision that will stop the most appalling company from be award Government contract . as I have say , the system itself need reform . statutory guidance on building regulation cover fire safety and building design be now subject to continuous review by the Building Safety Regulator , but I want to go far . I can announce today that I have ask the regulator to undertake that a fundamental review of the building safety regulation guidance will be produce , update and communicate to the construction industry , because we must get this right . I thank my right hon . friend for give way once again . to go back to the issue of the product manufacturer , I be really pleased to hear what she say about Government contract for the bad offender , but will she consider give guidance to local authority and other public body , such as the NHS , to make sure that they be also aware of the need not to award contract to these company ? yes , I be happy to look at that issue . the spirit I be try to get across be that we have to have a cultural shift , and everyone have to play their part in ensure that that happen . I be willing to look at anything the Government can do to make it happen . the Secretary of State be make an excellent speech , and I wholeheartedly welcome the measure she have announce . in my constituency , one challenge be that , sadly , there have be some poor example of workmanship — or workpersonship — and some sloppy building that have open up resident to a risk of fire : poorly build compartmentalisation , fire safety wall not build properly , gap , the use of wood where wood should not have be use — that sort of risk . will she ask her official to look into such matter , and for well guidance to be provide ? my hon . friend make an important point . cladding be one element of what many tenant face with unsafe building , and we be look at how we can strengthen measure to ensure that action be take . some local authority have already start to take enforcement action , and I have push hard to ensure that we continue to do that . if a building be unsafe , people should not have to live in it , and it should be deal with as quickly as possible . we be bring local authority leader and Ministers together through the new leader ’ council to work through these issue . I thank they all for their engagement today , include our mayor . the resilience review announce in July will continue to bring together the devolved government , local leader and expert to consider where thing be work well and where there could be improvement , to ensure that the UK be prepare for the risk we face . we must work with those in industry to ensure that building be safe , to raise professional standard , and to create a culture that put the safety of resident first . fire and rescue service need to do more to develop high quality leadership , and support learning and professional excellence . we be carefully consider the inquiry ' s recommendation to establish a college of fire and rescue . we expect all firefighter to have access to the vital education and training they need to save life , and to be the good they can be . culture and integrity in fire and rescue service be vital . poor culture , a lack of integrity and bad practice can risk public safety , as be highlight by the Grenfell inquiry . that be unacceptable and a culture change must begin immediately . our response to the Grenfell inquiry report must be a watershed moment not just for safety and quality , but for a new vision of housing that give every resident a voice and the respect that they deserve — a change in culture that truly empower people . as I say early , the failure to do that with Grenfell resident , who repeatedly raise concern and be repeatedly ignore , stand out starkly . everyone deserve a warm , decent home . they also have the right to be treat with dignity , and to have access to redress when thing go wrong . that include the million of people live in social housing , which be why we have introduce a strong set of consumer standard that apply to all register social landlord . routine inspection of large landlord have already start , and the Regulator of Social Housing have publish the first set of judgment . many landlord must do more to improve the quality of their building and communicate well with their tenant . when it come to quality and tackle unacceptable housing condition , we will legislate to introduce Awaab ' s law in the social rent sector as soon as possible , set a requirement for landlord to investigate and repair serious hazard with specific timeframe . we will also extend Awaab ' s law to the private rent sector through the Renters ' Rights Bill . we will bring forward regulation to set standard for the competence and conduct of staff in the sector , and enable resident to request information about their landlord through new access requirement that will apply to housing association . we will monitor the new regime and its effectiveness closely . while we be do more to raise the bar for social landlord , we be also empower tenant and give they a seat at the table , relaunche our communication campaign on how people can raise complaint , and extend that work so that all resident know their right and can hold their landlord to account . to hear at first hand what matter most to social tenant , this week my hon . friend the Minister of State for Housing and Planning will join our relaunche social housing resident panel . change the culture in our social housing system will take time , but those be important first step . in conclusion , the reform I have set out be about much more than new regulation and legislation . indeed , the Grenfell inquiry make it clear that those thing alone be not enough , and that nothing less than a shift in culture that put people and safety first , not profit , will do if we be to turn the page on the shocking failure expose by the Grenfell report . accelerate the pace of remediation and empower tenant be important step in the right direction , because no matter who someone be or where they live , a good life start with a safe , secure , decent home and a strong community . we owe it to the Grenfell community , and everything they stand for and have fight for , to make sure that everyone can count on that . to the Grenfell community I say this : we will continue to work with you to build a fitting and lasting memorial . this government will support you now and always , in memory of the love one who be lose so tragically . I call the shadow Secretary of State , Kevin Hollinrake . the Grenfell Tower fire be an unthinkable tragedy that claim 72 life . it be one of the few moment in life when we all remember exactly where we be when it happen . our thought be with those who lose love one , the survivor who endure unimaginable trauma , and all those who be affect by that devastating night . the state fail they in its duty to protect , and we must ensure that such failure be never repeat . we will work collaboratively with the Secretary of State and the wide Government in the interest of everyone directly and indirectly affect by this tragedy , and I very much welcome today ' s announcement about the acceleration of remediation . follow the tragedy , the Conservative Government take decisive action to uncover the truth , initiate a public inquiry to learn lesson and implement change to prevent such a tragedy from ever happen again . the right hon . Lady may remember that we serve briefly together on the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee which , under the extremely capable leadership of the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , lead much of the thinking and debate follow the tragedy . we successfully campaign for a banning of combustible material on the outside of new building over 18 metre , and for a Government remediation fund for exist building . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) who be the first to properly grasp that nettle as Chief Secretary to the Treasury , Chancellor , and Prime Minister . More than £ 5 . 1 billion have since be allocate for build remediation , and we have act to strengthen regulation and implement recommendation from the inquiry ' s phase 1 report . I also pay tribute to the right hon . Lady ' s predecessor , the former Member for Surrey Heath , for his work in this area , not least the establishment of the building safety levy , which be the source from which much of the fund will flow . however , publication of the phase 2 report in September 2024 reveal the scale of failure that occur over decade and across multiple sector , make clear that much more remain to be do , as the right hon . Lady set out . even those of we who have follow the inquiry closely find the report truly shocking to read . the phase 2 report , chair by Sir Martin Moore - Bick and support by panel member Ali Akbor OBE and Thouria Istephan , make 58 recommendation to improve fire safety and address systemic issue within the construction industry . crucially , the report conclude that the Grenfell Tower fire be the result of decade of failure by Government , regulatory body and the construction industry to act on the known danger of use combustible material in high - rise building . one of the most alarming finding be the role of systemic dishonesty in the construction industry . company engage in deliberate and sustained strategy to manipulate safety testing process , misrepresent test datum and mislead the market . for instance , the insulation product Celotex RS5000 , use on Grenfell Tower , be find to have be sell use manipulated test result — incredibly , with the Building Research Establishment complicit in those practice . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment about the work of the Select Committee . on product safety and product testing , what the Hackitt report , as well as the Select Committee , find be the extent to which product manufacturer be go from one testing place to another until they find one that agree that their product be safe . product often fail the test , but those failure be never in the public domain . do he think that there ought to be a change of process , so that when a product fail in one testing place , that failure be make known publicly ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman , as I do during much of our work on the Select Committee . one of Martin Moore - Bick ' s recommendation be exactly that : that all test result should be publish , not just the one that support the safety of the product . that would go a long way towards ensure that the true safety of the product be establish . the BRE finding highlight a shocking betrayal of trust , and a callous disregard for public safety , drive by financial gain . the report also identify severe leadership and management failing within the London Fire Brigade . it describe a chronic lack of effective management , an undue focus on process , and a complacency among senior officer regard the brigade ' s operational efficiency . those weakness hinder the brigade ' s ability to respond effectively to the crisis , and underscore the need for systemic reform and improved leadership in fire service . to address those failing , the phase 2 report make far - reach recommendation , include the establishment of a single construction regulator ; centralise fire safety responsibility under one Secretary of State , to end fragmentation across Departments ; regular update to approve document b , to keep fire safety regulation current ; and the creation of a chief construction adviser and a college of fire and rescue to ensure high standard in fire safety training and practice . we fully support those recommendation and urge the Government to implement they swiftly and effectively . we will scrutinise their progress to ensure that the necessary reform be deliver without delay . some have question the pace of the remediation effort . I think the Secretary of State be right to do so . I emphasise that the remediation effort prioritise the high - risk building , and by July 2024 , 98 % of high - rise building with the most dangerous , Grenfell - style ACM cladding have either complete or start work . on the remain building , enforcement action be be take against non - compliant owner . the complexity of the building and legal dispute over responsibility have cause delay . nevertheless , all building owner must step up , take responsibility , and act swiftly to address the issue , or face the consequence of their inaction . it be important to note that the building regulation regime be establish under the Building Act 1984 , and fire safety reform be introduce by other government in previous decade , as the Secretary of State acknowledge . from 2010 , the coalition Government seek to remove unnecessary bureaucracy , but fire safety and building safety be explicitly exclude from those review . the inquiry acknowledge that key safety regulation , include the Regulatory Reform ( Fire Safety ) Order 2005 be exclude from deregulation initiative . under our leadership , safety be never treat as red tape . nevertheless , as the report confirm , mistake be make by minister and official on our watch . the frequency of change under government of different political stripe , and the frequency of change in housing Ministers and Secretaries of State , would not have help . I hope that Parliament may learn that lesson for the future . since 2017 , the Conservatives in Government lead comprehensive reform of build compliance and fire safety . measure introduce include the Fire Safety Act 2021 and the Building Safety Act 2022 , which create the Building Safety Regulator to oversee strict compliance with standard . one issue that arise at an early stage , about a year after the tragedy at Grenfell , be the need for fire safety surveyor . these people be expert and take about three year to train . in retrospect , do the hon . Gentleman not think that a lesson for future government of any colour be to look at such issue at an early stage , because we still have a shortage of those people now in 2024 ? I agree . mistake be make — there be no doubt about it . as the phase 2 report recommend , there should be great oversight and regulation of people who proclaim themselves to be expert in these field . I agree with the hon . Lady ' s point . accountability must remain a cornerstone of our response . those who knowingly cut corner on safety to maximise profit must face justice . we call on the Metropolitan police and the Crown Prosecution Service to pursue criminal charge against those responsible , be it through a deliberate act , a willingness to look the other way , or gross incompetence . company implicate in such wrongdoing should not receive future public contract . let we be clear : this be not the responsibility of any single Government , Minister or official . as the report set out in its opening paragraph , failure occur over decade , involve administration of all political colour . we must approach these difficult question with the honesty and determination that they deserve , ensure that we learn the lesson of the past to protect life in the future . while we have make significant progress , the journey be far from over . as we look to the future , we must acknowledge the hard question raise by the report about past governance . those failure occur over decade , involve administration lead by Labour , the coalition Government , and conservative Governments . this be a systemic failure , which require an open and honest response . our party ' s record demonstrate our commitment to make thing right . we take swift action after the tragedy to establish the public inquiry , launch the independent review of building regulation and fire safety , and allocate significant resource to remove unsafe cladding from high - risk building . the Fire Safety Act 2021 implement recommendation from phase 1 of the Grenfell inquiry , and the Building Safety Act 2022 overhaul exist regulation , set up the Building Safety Regulator to oversee stringent compliance measure . Bournemouth East constituent , such as Katie from queen ' s Park in Charminster , have be in touch , horrify about the Grenfell Tower tragedy and desperate for a turning point . do the hon . Member agree that we need to reach such a turning point ? we need justice for those who be let down by the last Government . do he also agree that we need to get rid of the social housing stigma , which have make so many people in social housing feel like they live in shame ? there be so many lesson that I hope will be learn across the House . the report be clear that there have be failure by government of all stripe over the year , in term of both build safety and social housing . with the Regulator of Social Housing and the new fire safety regulatory regime , it be hugely important that we turn the page , but I do not think that we will win back the trust of the people affect by this scandal , or by the cladding scandal in other area , until we have make progress , complete the remediation , and put in place a regime that be see to be work and bring about the cultural change to which the Secretary of State refer . it be hugely important that we make that progress . the action that we have take have make stride towards address safety concern , but we recognise that more be need . I welcome the Labour Government ' s pledge to respond to all 58 recommendation within six month and to provide annual progress update to Parliament . this be a critical moment for accountability and reform , and we stand ready to support all proportionate and necessary measure to protect public safety . do the Secretary of State agree with the recommendation of a single construction regulator , with one Secretary of State hold end - to - end responsibility , and will that be she ? do she also agree with the point raise by the hon . member for Sheffield South East about product manufacturer be hold responsible for remediation cost , too ? it be her state policy to continue the use of the CE mark scheme for construction product in the UK , but those standard be set in 2015 , three year prior to the post - Grenfell standard revision in the UK . how will she ensure that all product sell in the UK meet the post - 2018 UK standard ? that issue have be raise on the Floor of the House by my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , who be next to I on the Opposition Front Bench . I recently meet campaigner , include Steve Day , who raise the case of the 1 . 7 million leaseholder who do not currently qualify for the Building Safety Act 2022 protection and who still suffer from high insurance premium , high mortgage rate and an inability to sell their home . will the Secretary of State meet he and other to see what additional measure need to be take ? can she share with the House when announcement will be make on the future memorial on the site ? indeed , can the renovation of property in the Grenfell community be accelerate ? can we get a target for when that will be complete ? accountability must be at the heart of the response , and those who knowingly cut corner on building safety must face justice . Grenfell be a tragedy of unprecedented scale , but it must serve as a turning point . we owe it to those who lose their life , to the survivor and to the public to ensure that their legacy be one of justice , reform and safety . let we move forward with determination to build a safe future for all . it be now more than seven and a half year since 72 people lose their life at Grenfell Tower in my constituency in north Kensington . it be a great loss of life than any terrorist attack in London ' s history . that be seven and a half year of no justice , and seven and a half year of no meaningful change . it be a tragedy that be entirely preventable , and entirely foresee . to our shame as a country , and as the recent fire in Dagenham show , it could happen again today . as the Grenfell inquiry set out , the fire occur because individual and organisation be systematically dishonest , put profit before life and be part of a system and culture that too often deny agency and power to those live in social housing in this country . I pay tribute to the next of kin , bereaved , survivor and our community , many of whom have join we here today , for their resilience and strength in continue to fight for truth , justice and change . I know that with each hearing , each story , each Government announcement and each new promise of change , they be force to relive the horrific event of that night , and I know that today will be painful , too . their voice must remain at the heart of this Government ' s response and of all future decision about Grenfell . I hope I speak for the whole House when I say to they that justice will only truly be serve when there be criminal prosecution and those responsible pay the price . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s apology on 4 September on behalf of the british state , and I thank Sir Martin Moore - Bick and the whole inquiry team . the report be an important step in uncover the truth of what happen that night , who be responsible and what must be do to ensure that such a tragedy be never repeat , but the path to justice be long and we be far from the end . in recent meeting with the then Minister for Courts and Legal Services , my hon . friend the Member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) and the Metropolitan police , I have be clear that our community be watch and wait . I urge all involve to remain focused on expedite the process as much as possible . I fully understand the frustration that it have take this long . on 24 June 2017 , then Ministers Alok Sharma and Nick Hurd write to bereaved family . they say : " the inquiry will not delay the conclusion of the Police inquiry … if criminal proceeding result from these investigation … we would not expect they to be delay by the establishment of the public inquiry . " that have clearly not come to pass . Justice have be delay , but it must not be deny . while we wait for the police and the Crown Prosecution Service to complete their work , there be action that must be take now . company identify in the report , such as Arconic , Rydon , Kingspan and Celotex , must be exclude from public contract while criminal investigation be ongoing . I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment to that , and I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) that local authority across the country should be encourage to follow suit . justice be about more than contract and criminal charge , and it go beyond Grenfell . across the country , up to a million people be still stick in unsafe building . they be victim of the building safety crisis . the National Audit Office have just report that , on current trend , it will take until at least 2037 before the last unsafe building be remediate , at a cost of £ 16 . 6 billion . I therefore welcome the Government ' s announcement today that they will speed up the remediation work , that developer will be force to double the pace of fix the crisis and that building owner who sit on their hand will be subject to severe penalty . that be right , because while resident wait , they also pay the cost . in a block of flat in Earl ' s Court , just two mile south of Grenfell , a recent fire inspection find flammable rendering . the insurance premium have go up from £ 15 , 000 a year to £ 375 , 000 a year , mean an extra £ 400 a month in service charge for leaseholder . while leaseholder face this increase cost of living crisis , and the fear of live in building that be unsafe , the insurance industry have so far fail to tackle the problem . the Association of British Insurers commit to bring down cost , but the experience of my constituent show that it be not work . I be delighted that the Government have commit to work with insurer to consider urgently how bill can be reduce during remediation programme . that can not come soon enough . I know that member from across the House will have their own horror story of leaseholder who can not sell and can not move on with their life , who be catch in the middle between freeholder , developer , manage agent and all level of government . my test of this Government ' s plan and whether it will be deem a success be whether it bring this merry - go - round of buck - pass to an end . I know that the Government be also consider their formal response to the inquiry , include end the chaotic and fragmented regulatory system . accountability for building regulation should be streamline under a single Secretary of State . we need one regulator — a high - quality , well - resource public body report directly to that Secretary of State — and we need robust product regulation . currently , only a third of construction product be regulate . instead , all construction product should be subject to regulation to ensure safety and public trust . this inquiry be just one of many recent high - profile public inquiry into state injustice , whether that be Hillsborough , the Post Office , Windrush , infect blood or lgbt veteran . I welcome the Government ' s resolve to right the wrong of the past and tackle the injustice that the previous Government largely fail to budget for . time and again , we have see a pattern of inaction and too many lifesave recommendation from public inquiry and inquest ignore by corporate body and Departments , and that failure to act have have fatal consequence . have the coroner ' s regulation follow the Lakanal House fire , which claim six life , be implement , it be likely that the Grenfell Tower tragedy would have be prevent . the previous Government drag their foot on implement personal emergency evacuation plan for disabled people in phase 1 , so I welcome the Government ' s announcement today on the next step to protect disabled tenant . such example have convince I that we must consider an independent oversight body , answerable to Parliament , to track the implementation of inquiry recommendation and prevent avoidable death . I welcome the commitment to pass the Hillsborough law duty of candour to ensure that public authority and official act in the public interest , with openness , honesty and transparency about their action , decision and failing . nowhere be the need for candour and oversight more evident than with the royal borough of Kensington and Chelsea , which fail resident in the year lead up to the Grenfell fire , on the night of the tragedy and in its aftermath . the inquiry determine that RBKC bear " considerable responsibility for the dangerous condition of the building " , highlight a " persistent indifference to fire safety " , and find that RBKC ' s response be " muddle , slow , indecisive and piecemeal " , with it " ill - equipped to deal with a serious emergency " , expose a complete failure to protect and serve the community for whom it be entrust to care . even today , many north Kensington resident still rely on community group for essential support and service . in stark contrast to the failure of RBKC , the community act decisively and heroically on the night of the fire and in its immediate aftermath . I be proud of how our community respond to the fire and continue to support resident across north Kensington . but this be not just about one council ; it be about a culture of neglect and disrespect that impact million of people live in social housing across the country . some 60 % of my casework in Kensington and Bayswater relate to slow repair , damp , mould , overcrowding and poor communication from landlord . on Saturday , I visit a council estate close to Grenfell and speak to many resident , include a woman who have be in temporary accommodation for 19 year out of the borough and who have have to chase relentlessly to get her move back home , and a resident with an extractor fan that have be break for year , despite multiple surveyor come to assess the job . I thank my hon . friend for make such a powerful speech on behalf of his constituent . what he have describe reflect all our inboxe . do he agree that to address resident ' , tenant ' and leaseholder ' concern in a timely manner with good customer care do not cost any money ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the waste of council ' and housing association ' precious resource and the waste of people ' s time in take time off work and disrupt their life to deal with the inefficiency and repair be something that we have to fix . I be really hopeful that incoming legislation such as Awaab ' s law will help with that . the case study from Saturday be a good example . a constituent be force to open the window to prevent mould come into her home , which mean that she have pay thousand extra in energy bill over the past few year while she wait for the council to fix the fan . on the Lancaster West estate , where Grenfell be locate , there be concern that the promise from all level of government for a modern 21st - century social housing estate will not be fulfil . it be essential that RBKC , resident and Ministers agree a plan to complete the refurbishment with transparency and accountability on budget and timeline , because those resident have be live on a building site for far too long . it be not enough just to talk about change . until the tenant of RBKC and the housing association in my constituency be treat with respect and have access to what they be entitle to as a right , they will lack trust in the institution that be mean to serve they . just last week , the regulator find one of our major housing association , notte Hill Genesis , to be non - compliant after an inspection reveal governance failing and poor health and safety outcome for tenant . I do not want just to criticise ; I want to help RBKC and our housing association to find solution . in the new year , we will be launch a new campaign on social housing quality in Kensington and bayswater , because I want our community to be a trailblazer on how to implement Awaab ' s law on damp and mould , how to enforce the new decent home standard and how to break people out of the doom cycle of endless email , phone call , miss appointment and subcontractor even to get simple repair do . if we can not get it right in Kensington and Bayswater give Grenfell , give our amazing community organisation and give that we be on the frontline of the nation ' s housing crisis , what hope do the rest of the country have ? central to the campaign will be the voice of tenant . I extend an open invitation to anyone who can help to join our campaign and make a practical difference for the community . it have be over seven year since the bereaved , the survivor and the local community endure a tragedy that change their life forever . I will continue to advocate in this place for truth , justice and lasting change , and for Grenfell bereave and survivor to be hear . their dignity and resilience have hold up a mirror to we as a nation , force we to confront a fundamental question : do we truly give everyone an equal voice in how this country be run ? the opportunity be for the government — a mission - lead Government — to focus on service and give people a real say in decision that affect they . we can not afford to continue with nearly a million people sleep in unsafe building . we can not afford another Grenfell Tower . true justice mean criminal charge for those responsible , a complete culture change with respect for every tenant , and every child in the country grow up in a safe and decent home . that must be the legacy of Grenfell . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . like member across the House , Liberal Democrats stand firmly with the many bereaved and their immediate community of family , friend and neighbour as they mourn the 72 , include child , who tragically lose their life in June 2017 . in this debate , surely one thing matter more than anything : that their memory must be respect . but , as Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s phase 2 report on the underlying cause of the fire graphically lay bare , they be cruelly let down by the system , company , government and government body that should have protect they . we welcome the Government ' s commitment to address all the recommendation in the report , and the Prime Minister ' s promise in response to the phase 2 report to take the necessary step to speed up the rate at which unsafe cladding be remove from building and to ensure that tenant and their leaseholder can never again be ignore . however , the National Audit Office have say that the pace of remediation work be behind where it should be and call for the onus to be place on developer to pay for the work . although the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government ' s figure show that work have begin in 44 % of building with unsafe cladding , it be deeply worrying , seven year on , that 66 % be wait and that thousand of people in the UK be still live in building with dangerous cladding . I therefore welcome the Government ' s announcement about accelerate progress . as the National Housing Federation have point out , 90 % of Government funding for the work so far have be receive by private building owner , but many have pass the cost of remediation work on to tenant and leaseholder , put many , quite unfairly , in serious financial peril . leaseholder have struggle under the cladding crisis , buy property they believe meet safety standard , which they realise now do not , and suffer from huge increase in insurance premium , as we have hear . we therefore call for the removal of all such dangerous cladding as soon as possible without tenant and leaseholder — include non - qualify leaseholder — have to pay . after all , they place their trust in the private company and regulatory body that let they down , so they should not have to pay a penny towards that work . as the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) say , product manufacturer surely should be pay . the whole picture point to the need to create a legally enforceable order to remediate premise so that they be safe on pain of criminal sanction . I welcome what the Deputy Prime Minister say about that a few moment ago . seven year on from this scandal , it be time for justice both for the victim and all those live with potentially unsafe cladding . the inquiry report clearly establish lesson to be learn for every authority in the land . the " pathway to disaster " , as Sir Martin call it , be chilling . it be incumbent on all of we in the House and everyone connect with the build environment and fire safety , not least those in my own profession — as an architect and town planner , I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — to ensure that change happen and to take forward the report ' s recommendation . the Architects Registration Board , work with the Royal Institute of British Architects , have a duty under the Building Safety Act 2022 to monitor the training and development that architect complete throughout their career . the Liberal Democrats welcome the fact that this year it be mandatory for all architect to complete training in fire safety . but there be one factor that come through in the fateful chain of event that lead to the fire in 2017 , and it be one that have a devastating effect on the life of so many : the promotion of gain commercial advantage at the expense of building and fire safety . the inquiry say that the Building Research Establishment — originally a public body but privatise in the ' 90 — exhibit in its testing of dangerous cladding " a desire to accommodate exist customer and to retain its status within the industry at the expense of maintain the rigour of its process and consideration of public safety . " the inquiry report say that the supplier company " engage in deliberate and sustained strategy to manipulate the testing process , misrepresent test datum and mislead the market . in the case of the principal insulation product use on Grenfell Tower , Celotex RS5000 , the Building Research Establishment … be complicit in that strategy . " since the privatisation of building inspector in the 1980 — a move with which even the most commercially minded partner at the practice I work in a few year later strongly disagree — they have also falter as a result of commercial pressure , with a resultant unacceptable blurring of responsibility . Sir Martin ' s report conclude that the privatised inspector NHBC " fail to ensure that its building control function remain essentially regulatory and free of commercial pressure . it be unwilling to upset its … customer " . the report go on : " we have conclude that the conflict between the regulatory function of build control and the pressure of commercial interest prevent a system of that kind from effectively serve the public interest . " it be also clear that NHBC practice expose what remain of local authority building control to similarly unscrupulous competition , and have drive down standard there as a result . I thank my hon . friend for his powerful speech . do he agree that a lot of problem have arise from the poor funding of local authority , where building control service have be severely undermine ? I very much agree . it be clear from my time in the profession that the exposure of local authority building control to private competition , with which it be difficult to compete , have lead to a race to the bottom . in fact , hon . member should not take my word for it ; expert witness Professor Luke Bisby sum it up : " a culture shift in building control have gradually occur , from one of build control actor ' police ' developer to one of they ' work with client ' under commercial duress . this result in a ' race to the bottom ' " . liberal Democrats therefore strongly support the recommendation for the Government to consider whether it be in the public interest for build control function to be perform by those who have a commercial interest in the process . we would go far and say that the evidence to the inquiry be such that commercial interest can not be in the public interest , and that both the Building Research Establishment and building inspector should be bring back under public control . we also urge social housing provider to pay particular attention to their new requirement under the Social Housing Act ( Regulation ) 2023 , and to the need for well inspection and timely remediation of defect . we also strongly endorse the need for a recognise profession of fire engineer . it be important , too , that our local fire service be properly fund . I be concern about the reduction in the number of appliance at Taunton fire station , and I have write to the Treasury on behalf of the Devon and Somerset fire and rescue authority , ask the Government for flexibility in funding and tax - raise power . it be vital that no further reduction of appliance at station such as mine go ahead . we support all 58 recommendation in the report , whether for local authority , the fire brigade , tenant management organisation or local authority , or on personal emergency evacuation plan be put in place — it be good to see the Government establish that today — or indeed for the government themselves . since what have turn out to be the fatal folly of promote commercial interest above building and fire safety in the decade from the ' 80 and ' 90 , government of all persuasion have let down some of our most vulnerable citizen . the situation have be review many time over the year by government of all stripe . it be now time to put safety once again before profit . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) on outline the concern of his constituent . in the short four - and - a - half month that he have be here , champion their cause have be central to his role as an MP . this evening a number of colleague will touch on the technicality outline in the report . I want to focus my remark on the survivor and victim of Grenfell . the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , say that we all remember where we be on 14 June 2017 . I remember very well where I be , because my son be just a week old — he be bear on 7 June . as a new mum , though a second - time one , I be sit up nurse he through the night . I remember my husband come into the room and ask " what be you watch ? why ' ve you still get the tv on ? what film be this ? " it be not a film ; it be real life . I sit there during the night , which many member probably do as well , just watch that fire . remember back to that scene , thing be drop that we might have think be item , but they be people . today ' s debate have to be about the victim of Grenfell , their family and the 72 people who die . in May 2023 , I go to the Serpentine gallery to watch a short film produce by Steve McQueen . it be a 24 - minute film that follow a drone or a helicopter come in from way out near Heathrow . it be an aerial shot , and quite silent — at first , you can hear the siren and the noise in the background , but as it get close and close to Grenfell Tower , there be just silence . that aerial shot give a good overview of just a tall , charred building . as the helicopter go around the building , you can see inside — the debris , the remnant and the forensic case . but what be glaringly obvious in that film be blackness . you can almost smell the burning as you watch the film . I challenge anyone who have not see it to try to watch that film . I think about the family and the victim , and their long battle for justice . we be now go into the eighth year . this be a fight that they should never have have to endure in the first place . we as a House must have the courage to deliver a fair society for they — one where the pain they feel can never be inflict on anyone again . I can not imagine the anger they feel at the deep failure outline in the phase 2 report . it outline over a decade of miss opportunity to identify the risk associate with combustible cladding . the shadow Secretary of State quote it , as do the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , and I will quote again . there be " deliberate and sustained strategy " from clad provider " to manipulate the testing process , misrepresent test datum and mislead the market . " shame on they . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] that be compound by a complete failure of oversight within the Government at every level , and the local council , which ignore resident who raise those safety concern . the Grenfell disaster represent nothing less than a catastrophic failure of the duty to provide people with even the most basic level of safety . yet here we be , more than seven year down the line , and those responsible for this tragedy have still not be bring to justice . as a slap in the face , thousand of people up and down the country still go to bed every night know that their building be wrap in this unsafe cladding . can you imagine the mental toll ? we ask those same people to sleep in their home and not leave during the covid pandemic , know full well that if their building go up in flame , they could not escape . many of those people be my constituent in Vauxhall and Camberwell Green . like many other member of this House , I have have conversation with constituent who be catch up in the cladding scandal through no fault of their own , with the ripple effect of this crisis ruin their life to this day . we must solve this as a national emergency . I be shock that the National Audit Office say that we could not expect an end to the remediation until 2035 , which would be 18 year after Grenfell . I therefore welcome the Government ' s commitment to step up the pace and finally set a deadline of 2029 for the completion of the remediation . I also welcome the fact that the Government adopt measure to improve fire safety standard on 2 September , and that they have promise the House that they will address the recommendation of the phase 2 report within six month of its release . as Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , I look forward to that , and will be hold minister to account . however , as important as those step be , we can not pretend that these announcement do enough — they do not address the systematic failure that lead to the Grenfell disaster . I urge member to read part 4 of the report , if they have not already do so . it outline how resident feel that the tenant management organisation be an uncaring and bully overlord that belittle they , marginalise they and regard they as a nuisance . that behaviour be something that I see grow up on a council estate , and it may feel familiar to other who grow up in social housing : we know the stigma we face and the assumption make about we ; we know the disdain we face from housing provider ; we know how often we be ignore , despite know our community well . I take on the challenge raise by my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and bayswater in put the question of how we address the systematic culture back to the Government . like I say , it do not cost anything for someone to respect their constituent or customer . we must not ignore how this systematic discrimination against people and treat they as a box - tick exercise lead to tragedy such as Grenfell . while there be no recommendation on the TMO and tenant relationship in this report , I urge Ministers to look closely at how such relationship work , and at how we can swing the pendulum back to ensure that tenant be listen to . while it be not mention in this report , we must acknowledge that those kill in the fire be disproportionately from black and minority ethnic community , which suffer from racism and the hostile environment . I want to speak specifically about disabled people , too ; they be fail by a basic lack of safety provision at Grenfell . they have also be fail by delay to the implementation of personal evacuation plan , which leave disabled people with no clear escape route in a fire , unable to evacuate with everybody else — leave to simply hope , pray and wish that the fire do not reach they . I first raise the issue back in 2022 with the then Prime Minister , and nothing have change since then . I therefore welcome the Government ' s commitment today to deep information sharing between the authority and emergency service on the requirement of disabled resident . however , I be concerned that minister be fall short on four of the recommendation of the Grenfell inquiry . I will be follow this up with the Department . these be people who be never listen to back in 2017 , and they be not be hear now . they could not hold their local authority to account when their problem be not deal with , and some of they still can not do that today . I urge the Government to act on the finding of the phase 2 report in full , but they must go far to address the inequality at the heart of the Grenfell fire disaster . it be more than seven year since 72 people lose their life . if we be honest as a House , the problem face by Grenfell victim be still face by people up and down the country today . this will be fix only if the Government look beyond target to address the toxic culture in our housing sector that Grenfell so tragically expose . this work demand a lot from all of we , but we can and must ensure it never happen again . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) and for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , who both speak very movingly on behalf of the victim of this tragedy who want to see justice do . I venture to suggest that what they want above everything be to know that nothing like this will ever happen again — that whatever happen that night , there will be some glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel and that some good will come of it . I praise the Secretary of State for recognise that it be the system itself that need the most fundamental reform , and that the failure of individual — whatever incentive exist and whatever conflict be unresolved — be system failure . the cultural shift will come about as a result of a systemic review — a system change . hon . member might well ask why I be take an interest in this debate . I do not think I represent any community in a high - rise building with cladding problem in leafy Essex . the only interest I have to declare be that it turn out that my late mother be live in a block with unsafe cladding , so , to a very limited and minor extent , my family be suffer the loss of be unable to sell her flat . that be very small beer , but I put that down as an interest I should declare . I have long take an interest in safety management system — ever since I be shadow Secretary of State for Transport at the time of the Ladbroke Grove disaster , when I take an interest in what be be submit to the inquiry and make a submission of my own , recommend that there should be a systemic approach to the safety system . that result in the formation of the rail accident investigation branch of the Department for Transport , with the result that no public inquiry into a rail accident have ever take place again . similarly , as Chairman of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , I take a close interest in patient safety because we receive the report from the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman . we have Mid Staffordshire and all the maternity scandal , and we have public inquiry after public inquiry , until somebody suggest that there should be an investigation body accountable and answerable to the Secretary of State to look at why thing go wrong in patient care and investigate the cause of incident — without blame , incidentally — to find out what go wrong in order to make recommendation and put it right . those be the lesson draw from all the effective safety regime in other industry , which should perhaps be apply in this case . I co - author a submission to the Grenfell inquiry with three other . the first be former Labour Housing and Fire Minister Nick Raynsford , who , at the time , be chairman of the Construction Industry Council approve inspector ' s register — CICAIR — which relate to the private sector building control surveyor the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) speak about . I will come on to that conflict , which the hon . Gentleman be very concerned about . another co - author be Kevin Savage , a lead figure in the building control profession ; he happen to be a constituent of mine , but that be a coincidence . the third be Keith Conradi , the former chief investigator of the air accident investigation branch of the Department for Transport — who , as it happen , become the first chief investigator for the Health Services Safety Investigations Body , which , as a result of the inquiry conduct by my Committee , be now a statutory body . he help set that body up ; he be now retire . he help with the submission . Keith Conradi in particular enable we to understand building safety management as a safety management system . the event lead to the Grenfell disaster be not just the random failing or crime of individual . where there be culpability , prosecution must certainly follow , but that be not the main point . Grenfell and previous fire , such as Lakanal House , demonstrate that there be a comprehensive failure of the safety system that should exist to keep building as safe as possible . we make our submission in September 2021 . after seven year — a disadvantage of public inquiry be that they take a very long time — I be disappoint that the inquiry do not really find time to engage with our recommendation . it do publish our submission , but from the recommendation , I think it be fair to say that a number of issue have be hand back to the Department to be resolve . paragraph 113 . 58 , entitle " implement change " , simply suggest that the London Fire Brigade should " establish effective standing arrangement for collect , consider and effectively implement lesson learn from previous incident " . that be an odd recommendation when we think about it , because the London Fire Brigade be itself very , very severely criticise in the report . that it should be leave responsible for mark its own homework and make recommendation about itself underline that the lacuna in the recommendation be the lack of an investigation body . there be two other paragraph about build control that I shall come to : paragraph 113 . 37 and 113 . 38 . those be our two urgent priority to be address in our submission . by the way , I be very grateful to the Minister for accept our request for a meeting , which the Prime Minister promise on the Floor of the House when he announce the outcome of the inquiry . we have a very good meeting with the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention . I think she be take with our recommendation but I think that they fall to the Minister ' s Department , so I look forward to meet he later this week . the delay in address the fire safety issue that pertain to the Grenfell tragedy be have significant consequence for those who reside in building that be not be remediate in a timely fashion , particularly in my constituency . for example , the resident of Johnston Court have face more than four year of uncertainty follow a b2 rating , and the progress of remediation have stall due to dispute between the developer and freeholder . the deadlock have leave resident unable to sell , remortgage or feel safe in their home , so we need fast action and accountability from all party involve . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the Government ' s action and intervention will be critical to ensure that dispute do not keep delay this urgently need work , and that , as he be discuss , this be fundamentally about leadership ? I be very happy to agree with the hon . Gentleman and to welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement today about accelerate all of this and ensure that action be take much more quickly . I hope that that will result in much quick action for his constituent . I be address the first major recommendation in our submission to the inquiry , which be that there should be establish an independent building safety investigation branch of the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , report directly to the Secretary of State . that remove any possible conflict that investigation have with any other part of the system . the idea that the Health and Safety Executive or the new Building Safety Regulator should be conduct investigation be absolutely fine , but we can never guarantee that they will not come across a failing of their own and be conflict in that investigation . the public will not have confidence in any investigation that they conduct unless there be an independent investigation that look at all the element of the system . the Hackitt review rather overlook this issue . it fail to underline how future fire incident would be investigate . this be a gap that be still to be address . the current system of resort to public inquiry , as the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green confirm , take far too long . I feel for those who be catch up in the tragedy directly . they have wait far too long . an air accident investigation rarely take more than a few month because the capability exist . in the Grenfell case , the Housing Ombudsman still feel that " resident ' complaint be dismiss and devalue . " I think the inquiry be overwhelm with so much material and so many different element . in a way , its term of reference be too wide to be able to capably come up with a comprehensive set of safety system recommendation . it be also notable that although there be an inquiry into the Lakanal House fire , we have another inquiry into Grenfell . public inquiry do not seem to resolve problem . a building safety investigation branch would transform that . it would operate independently , model on similar body for air , marine and rail . these body have prove their worth in both the rail and aviation . no public inquiry have take place into an aviation accident since 1972 and there have not be a public inquiry into a rail accident since the Ladbroke Grove inquiry , because people have confidence in the new independent arrangement . they conduct rapid investigation . they focus not on blame , but on understand failure and issue bind recommendation for the future . the hon . Gentleman have spend a lot of time in this House think about how system work . do he not think that there be now an argument for the Government to have a proper review process of all coroner ' recommendation and all public and other inquiry recommendation , so they do not just get respond to in the moment and then not follow up in the month and year that follow ? I be sure that may be a very good suggestion , but the point I be make be that we need an apex to our safety system . whatever else the Government do to remediate the safety system as it exist at the moment , they need an independent safety investigator as the apex of the system , which be like a guardian angel over the whole system . the hon . member for Kensington and Bayswater say there should be — I think I quote he correctly — an independent oversight body . well , this be the body he seek . it would be constantly look for risk in the system , not just investigate accident , and follow up directly with the Secretary of State to say , " this have not be do . " crucially , the independence of the body be what command public confidence . they also provide a very significant capability that no other regulator can do — a safety investigation body be not a regulator , of course . they provide a legal safe space where anybody can go and say anything without fear or favour . witness have protection and , if necessary , anonymity , so they can openly speak without fear of retribution of be sue or the word they give in evidence be use against they in court . this create a culture of openness that accelerate the learning process while maintain accountability . the introduction of a bsib would not trespass on any other part of the safety system , such as the HSE or the Building Safety Regulator . it be an essential additional capability which need to exist , otherwise we do not have that ultimate check over the whole system . regulator , if necessary , can still run their investigation , as I be say before . the safe space in the safety investigator do not protect anyone from legal culpability , as we see when the air accident investigation branch investigate the Shoreham air crash . it pass a file to the police , because it believe there have be negligence . the pilot be prosecute . the safe space do not protect someone from wrongdoing . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way once more , but I have rather a lot to say and I do not want to take up too much time . the fundamental difference between an air accident investigation and a public inquiry be that as culpability be identify it be then pass on for action . this lie at the heart of the problem , which be the slow pace of bring about justice . an extended period for a public inquiry have prevent and inhibit the delivery of justice for the people of Grenfell . do the hon . Gentleman — Order . I remind member that intervention need to be pithy and short . I have get the point . the problem with a public inquiry be that it start from ground zero . it assemble a group of people who may be expert , but most of the lawyer will not be expert and will have to learn everything from scratch . the advantage of a standing capability be that there be expert who be permanently employ and who really understand everything about build safety , as it would be in this case . there would be human factor analyst , structural engineer , architect — key people with key skill , fully knowledgeable about the safety system that exist . they would start immediately after a tragedy , and they would conclude much more quickly on the basis of much well expertise . I have hope that the inquiry would adopt this recommendation , as do the Cullen inquiry into Ladbroke Grove , and also the inquiry into offshore safety follow the Piper Alpha disaster . it now fall to the Government and Parliament to get this right . the second recommendation in our submission be for a comprehensive reform of building control . building control be the inspection system which should ensure that building regulation be follow , but Grenfell demonstrate its failure . I accept that there have already be some reform here since we write our submission . much have be say , as we hear early , about how private sector building inspector be endemically conflicted because they be appoint and pay by constructor and other , but that miss a horrible truth about the Grenfell case . ironically , it be the building control function of a local authority , the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea , that fail so disastrously in Grenfell ' s case . despite that , everyone ' s emphasis still seem to be more focused on restrict private sector involvement than on reform of the whole building control sector . my hon . friend be make an important speech . one of the fact that the phase 2 report have establish be that the system be too fragmented , and need to be bring together under a single construction regulator , as he recommend . do he envisage the function that he have describe , involve investigation of incident , not fall to the responsibility of that regulator ? no , because a regulator be a part of the system , whereas a safety investigation body stand above the system . it be very simple . if you be a regulator , you be a participant . you be capable of make mistake , and you need to be independently investigate , or check , to confirm that you be not breach rule , or fail in some way — through no fault of your own , perhaps . everyone make mistake . most bad thing happen because of human error , not because of bad people do bad thing . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way so many time . be it not the case that when you set profit - make company against local authority , you end up with a race to the bottom , across the board ? be that not the evidence from the inquiry ? I have cause to look at the report of the original debate , in the 1980 , about bring in private inspector . a less than entirely leave - wing organisation , the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors , say that it be oppose to build control be take away from local authority . I be not in favour of take building control away from local authority , but if we go down the route recommend by the hon . Gentleman , we will not succeed in make building safe , not least because of the shortage of capacity in the sector . if it be decide that there can not be any private sector building control surveyor , there will be even less capacity , and remediate all this will take even long . an approach that rely entirely on local government or a state body of build control risk worsen a situation that we be already experience . the building control workforce be age , and recruitment struggle to keep up with demand . restrict private sector competition would exacerbate these problem , drive skilled professional not back into local authority — because they can not afford they — but into consultancy role in which they would be work for the construction company directly , not inspect what those company be do . rather than narrow the pool of inspector , we should be raise the standard of build control across the board . private sector approve inspector be already subject to a strict licensing regime through the Construction Industry Council approve inspector register , with a code of conduct , regular auditing and a complaint process . moreover , the local authority , not the private sector building control sector , be responsible for the problem at Grenfell . our recommendation suggest a fully integrate building control service involve both local authority and register building control approver work to common standard within a framework design to promote continuous improvement . that , I think , be the right answer . to deal with high - rise block , multidisciplinary team would be set up to perform the building control function , recruit on the basis of prove skill and experience from both public and private sector on a level playing field without the choice be bias in favour of the former . that , I submit , should be the Government ' s objective . we welcome the step take to require all building inspector , whether work for local authority or register building control approver , to be individually register by the BSR , but further step can and should be take to drive up standard and to maximise much - need capacity . however , recommendation 113 . 37 and 113 . 38 in the final report of the inquiry could undermine this process . implicit in recommendation 113 . 37 be the assumption that it be inappropriate for private sector commercial organisation to be involve in build control work at all , although no evidence be advanced to support that assumption . it be an assumption that many people make , but there be no evidential basis for it . recommendation 113 . 37 propose that there should be a panel to consider the matter , which I hope will happen , but if it decide to ban private sector building control , that would seriously aggravate the capacity problem . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will certainly give way , because this be a crucial point . I simply want to ask for a clarification . surely the issue , which be raise early , be that there be a conflict of interest when you be pay to have your product assess . as we know from Sir Martin ' s report , there be a cover - up of testing result . if you accept that , how do you get around the " conflict of interest " issue ? order . I be not go to admonish the hon . member for use the word " you " , but , Sir Bernard , you have now speak for long than both Front Benchers put together , and many other member wish to get in . I will be as quick as I can , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I be extremely grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s question , because that be a failure of regulation . the crucial point be this . in other safety - critical industry , such as the civil aviation , rail and marine sector , there be no ban on the private sector be select to perform inspection . employee of airline , of aircraft manufacturer and of aircraft engine manufacturer perform the inspection , but they be independently regulate , overseen and certify by the Civil Aviation Authority . the fact that they be employ by the airline or by commercial interest do not make they incapable of objective judgment . the whole aviation sector fly incredibly safely on the basis of aircraft be inspect not by Government inspector or public employee , but by the private sector . my experience in the aviation industry include oversee and be part of the record - keep process for inspection . do the hon . Member agree that the requirement to record and store all successful and unsuccessful testing result would resolve some of the issue that we see in the Grenfell disaster , where unsuccessful test result be hide and not make accessible to the public ? I completely agree . the record keeping of airline , air engine manufacturer and aircraft maintenance company have to be absolutely meticulous . it be inspect by the CAA , but the information originally come from inspection conduct by people who be employ by the private sector . I think the hon . Gentleman agree that we need to tackle the regulation , not indulge in shorthand for say that anybody make a profit must be guilty . I abhor the idea of people make a profit at the expense of safety , but that be not what happen in other industry . the success of independent accident investigation and safety investigation branch in other sector speak for itself . aviation and rail safety have much full public confidence and a low accident rate under such model , deliver safety improvement fast , more effectively and at low cost than traditional public inquiry . reform building control would ensure that all inspectorate operate under consistent and rigorous oversight , regardless of whether they be in the public or private sector . our proposal be not just about learn from the Grenfell tragedy , but about prevent the next disaster . the inquiry show the systemic failure in build safety and regulation that lead to an avoidable tragedy . I regret to have to warn the House that if we do not get this right , and do not finish work on what the inquiry have present to we and fill in the gap , there will one day be another Grenfell , just as Grenfell be a repeat of early safety failure . we have an obligation to get this right finally for the Grenfell community , for the memory of those who die and for future community . the Government now have the opportunity to follow up the inquiry , to build on its finding and to put in place institutional arrangement that will embed learning and safety improvement in residential building management in a comprehensive safety system that match those of other safety - critical industry . seven and a half year on from the Grenfell Tower fire , it often feel that we be no far forward than the last debate , silent walk or stage of the inquiry . there have be no prosecution , no accountability and insufficient movement on remediation of building , include those with flammable cladding . in the last seven year , a lot have happen — the Windrush scandal , Brexit , four change of Prime Minister , a new monarch and a global pandemic — but little have change for the family and survivor of Grenfell Tower . they be still wait for justice and for answer , and their trauma endure . that trauma , which each of the survivor bear , be incomprehensible to those of we who have never experience such a horrific event in our life . child who live in the tower have say that candle and bonfire trigger their fear , and they worry about the safety of even ordinary electrical item in their home . those worry should be far from a child ' s mind but , unfortunately , they be ever present and lasting . we be simply not do enough to prevent this tragedy from happen again . that in itself be retraumatise to those who know at first hand how devastating a fire in a tower block can be . the Fire Safety Act 2021 , the Building Safety Act 2022 and the appointment of the Building Safety Regulator be all step take by the previous Government in response to phase 1 of the Grenfell inquiry , but gape hole in safety regulation still remain . phase 2 of the inquiry ask for a more cohesive approach . it point to the confusing situation of multiple Government Departments hold responsibility for fire safety , and to the need for a unified response to regulation under a single construction regulator . in order to learn from mistake , we can not allow another situation in which warning be miss , accountability fall through the crack and responsibility be deny or pass on . however , although the phase 2 recommendation seek to fix the gap in fire safety to prevent future death , we must not lose sight of justice for the victim of the fire and for the survivor , who await the identification of those responsible . the delay to prosecution be increasingly unacceptable . the former Director of Public Prosecutions , Lord Macdonald , have say that the big barrier to justice be the precarious state of our criminal justice system . he estimate that criminal trial for those responsible for the Grenfell fire may not begin until 2029 . we can not accept that . I be pleased that the Chancellor have provide an uplift in the budget of both the Ministry of Justice and the Law officer in order to fix our justice system , but the conversation I have have with the senior judiciary on visit with the Justice Committee show that the backlog in our court continue to delay justice . I know that the Lord Chancellor be commit to fix these issue , but we have to make haste , and I join survivor ' call for criminal and civil trial to be expedite . the victim of Grenfell should not have to wait as long as the victim of Hillsborough for justice . I will talk briefly about the site itself , where the tower stand to this day . many member have speak about its retraumatising impact on the community , as the tower stand as a monolithic reminder of the tragic and horrific event of that night . it be visible from all across west London , include from high - rise block in my constituency and from those that have experience fire — thankfully , without fatality . the report draw up by the Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission show what need to be include and what design choice be important to the bereaved . I understand that a competition to design the memorial be run until spring next year , and I would be grateful if we could have on the record a commitment from the Government that once they have the plan of the approve design in front of they there will be no further delay . the completion of the memorial will give bereaved family and survivor a place to gather and remember their love one . it be important to the community that we get this right , but we must also get on with it . I want to mention remediation — another delayed and underfunde response to the finding of phase 1 of the report . under the previous Government , social landlord be exclude from Government funding for remediation to building that be deem to have unsafe cladding . I never understand the justification of that decision by the former Levelling up Secretary , and I be pleased that the Chancellor commit to a furth £ 1 billion investment for remediation in her Budget , and that social landlord will no long be exclude from financial assistance . there be also a commitment to go fast with the work , which be very welcome , as there remain 4 , 000 building across the country with unsafe cladding . however , there be still concern that the money allocate do not meet the reality of the cost for social landlord , which be estimate to be around £ 6 billion . those who currently live in unsafe social housing deserve to be safe and to feel safe . to find the money , social landlord have make cut , which have unfortunately come from future building programme . as a result , national figure show that affordable housing start have fall by 39 % . a number of housing association have have to merge or have be take over , and we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) that even very large association , such as Notting Hill Genesis , find themselves in financial trouble . in the social housing sector , funding be currently available only for building over 18 metre with ACM cladding , and for building with combustible cladding that be over 11 metre and house leaseholder . that often mean that social tenant be the only people foot the bill for remediation work through their rent , because private developer have much easy access to fund to fix their building , and leaseholder be eligible for the Government scheme . use rental income to fund building safety work mean that there be little money leave over for social landlord to carry out routine maintenance , which be a lose - lose for social housing tenant , many of whom be vulnerable and low - income family . in the light of the time available , I will not go into as much detail as I would like , but I want to commend some of the briefing that we have have in preparation for this debate , include from the Royal Institute of British Architects and from Rockwool . they talk about the need to fireproof building , perhaps through retrofit they with sprinkler or ensure that they have two fireproof staircase . I do not know why building over 11 metre be not include . I do not know why all building that contain vulnerable resident , such as care home and school , be not include in have no combustible cladding allow . I find it extraordinary that we be still allow some building to be build with combustible material on they , in the light of what happen at Grenfell . I also want briefly to mention the cause of fire . in July this year , there be a fire — the late in a series of fire — in a high - rise block in my constituency , cause by the failure of a battery pack on a converted e - bike . thankfully no one be kill , but the outcome could have be much bad , have the London Fire Brigade not act as swiftly as it do . the battery in those product be lithium ion and if they catch fire , there be a high chance of an explosion . we know the Grenfell Tower fire be start by a faulty fridge freezer . the year before , there be a very serious fire at Shepherds Court , a high - rise block on Shepherd ' s Bush Green , less than a mile from Grenfell , which be cause by another electrical device , a tumble dryer . hundred of these fire be happen every year . I know that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister be commit to justice in this matter , to build safety and to a proper memorial at the site . they have show their commitment to justice for the bereaved family and survivor through the Hillsborough law , they have make positive step to fund remediation work and I be convinced that they will move swiftly on plan for the memorial site . I would ask also that they look at the recommendation from the organisation Inquest that we should have a national oversight mechanism so that recommendation such as these — there be 58 from this inquiry — be follow up and implement , and that go for both public inquiry and prevention of future death report issue by coroner . it be all very well have good recommendation , but if they be not pursue , they become worthless . we must move more quickly and more decisively , and continue to keep the survivor and bereaved family at the forefront of our mind , so as not to prolong the trauma and heartache of a community that have already be badly let down time and time again . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a leaseholder . I welcome this debate and , in particular , the Deputy Prime Minister ' s consider , sympathetic and empathetic contribution . I agree with she wholeheartedly that the Grenfell disaster be cause by systematic failure across the board , include in the Government — or government — and in the private sector , where commercial gain be prioritise over people ' s life while a broken system allow unfettered competition to bulldoze through what little regulation be in place . as the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) say , we all remember where we be that evening . it be the month of Ramadan and we be come home from evening prayer . my heart break twice that evening . once be when I see the victim in front of I on my television screen and mobile phone . the second be know that those victim be go to have to wait an age for justice . even I do not perceive that it be go to take this long . the 72 people who die on that terrible night , their relative , the bereaved and the survivor , deserve justice , and it can happen with real change to the building safety system from top to bottom . that be why I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s commitment to put into place all 58 of the recommendation , but it have to be do as soon as possible . furthermore , we welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s expedite the remediation of the unsafe cladding . this have simply take too long . on 9 September , the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , say in answer to a parliamentary question : " speed up the remediation of building be absolutely critical . seven year on from Grenfell , action have be far too slow and the fire in Dagenham be a horrific reminder of the risk unsafe clad still pose to far too many people . " for the 49 private tenant of Abbey House , an eight - storey block in Leicester South with dangerous cladding , that remediation can not come too quickly . however , they be catch between a bureaucratic rock and a commercial hard place . the freehold of that block be own by Leicester City Council , but in 2015 the mayor grant a 150 - year lease to a private company to refurbish the block as private rent accommodation . as the block contain no individual leaseholder , it be not eligible for any Government funding for clad remediation . this be clearly intolerable for the resident of that block . while the to - ing and fro - ing go on about who should remediate the block , the resident be live in constant fear that their block be unsafe , and the lack of resolution just make it bad . as the hon . member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) mention , if the Government be truly serious about make home safe , ownership issue such as those at Abbey House can not be allow to get in the way of remove unsafe cladding and other material . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that it be now essential that Government fund be make available across the board urgently , to make all our building safe ? once that be do , issue of who be responsible and how to reclaim the cost can be resolve . I will start by pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) . he be the voice of his community , and he have give a move tribute today . as we have hear , it be now more than seven year since 72 people lose their life in the devastating fire in Grenfell Tower . our thought be with the bereaved family , the survivor , the resident and the local community . that this tragic fire happen in modern Britain be a scandal and it should fill we all with deep anger and fear . every single person be let down by the failure of almost every institution that exist to serve they , and by decade of failure by the state . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) speak powerfully of the moment she first see the tragedy . I will never forget see those image as I travel past not even 48 hour afterwards : the ember , the smoke , the smell — that memory will stay with I forever . the Grenfell community have demonstrate enormous strength and courage in give evidence to the inquiry and campaign tirelessly for justice — justice for the victim and family of Grenfell Tower , and justice to ensure that such a tragedy never befall another community . my Stratford and Bow constituency sit between the two borough with the high number of high - rise , cladde block in the country . Tower Hamlets have more than 400 building with unsafe cladding , and Newham have more than 200 . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s announcement that Tower Hamlets be the first to obtain a remediation order , but there be still so much more to be do . there be thousand of resident in my constituency who , through no fault of their own , find themselves catch up in the cladding scandal . I have be inundate with message from constituent who feel unsafe in their own home . I have sit with they as they tell I deeply personal story , through tear and anger — of be unable to move to be with their mother who be die of cancer ; of the mental health impact ; of be unable to start a family ; and of have their life saving trap in un - mortgageable property . the scale of anger , distrust and betrayal feel by my constituent , who be catch in this situation through no fault of their own , sit heavily with I . I share their frustration , which I can feel across the House today . it be frustration at the pace of remediation work , which be already long overdue and , for many , still feel year away . it be shameful that , seven year after Grenfell , remediation have be complete on less than 50 % of mid - rise and high - rise building with unsafe cladding . we have recently see a terrifying fire in Dagenham , which be why resident across the country , include in Stratford and Bow , live in fear of what might happen to they in the event of a fire . but this be not the end of the matter . many leaseholder , include share owner , feel trap in property that they be unable to sell , face significant financial uncertainty and distress . in my constituency , resident in East Village — the site of the former olympic athlete ' village — have be leave in a protract legal battle between stakeholder over who be liable for remediation cost , which have delay essential work . resident of Thomas Fyre Drive be still wait for work to start , despite their service charge go up , and some be stick in the leasehold trap because they can not sell their property . many feel that save face and save cost have be prioritise over their safety . the distress and frustration be palpable , and the situation be become untenable for many . I know that the Government share my view that every person deserve to feel safe and secure , and be safe and secure , in their home . sadly , too many of my constituent — and too many people across the country — fear be the victim of yet another Grenfell - style tragedy . will the Minister meet I to discuss the case in my constituency , as we have the most high - rise , cladde block in the country ? I acknowledge that he have inherit a shameful situation from the previous Government , and it be scandalous that remediation have be so slow . I welcome the work that this Labour Government be undertake to put it right , particularly today ' s announcement commit to the remediation of all high - rise building with unsafe cladding by 2029 through a government - fund scheme . I be also pleased that the Deputy Prime Minister have say today that we want to go much far . at the election , we promise to speed up the removal of unsafe cladding . today , we be act on that promise . however , too many leaseholder in my constituency have have to pay the price of remove unsafe cladding that they have no role in put up . I welcome the reform announce today to give tenant , include social housing tenant , a seat at the table , but I urge the Minister to make sure that remediation cost do not fall on leaseholder . we must take account of all the view and give everyone a seat at the table . we must truly mean it when we say , " never again . " we must learn the lesson of Grenfell so that the tragedy be never repeat . I join colleague in urge the Government to act in full on the finding of the phase 2 report , and to address the inequality in housing — inequality that we see due to class , race and disability . there be still so much more to be do , and I look forward to work together to ensure this never happen again . I associate myself with the remark of the Deputy Prime Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) in recognise the pain , grief and hurt cause to so many connect to the Grenfell Tower tragedy , in which 72 life be lose . I have hear the sombre comment in this debate and mean no disrespect by raise a specific matter relate to the understanding and interpretation of the legislation pass subsequently — namely , the anomaly of non - qualified leaseholder status , as it affect some constituent of mine . my constituent own a one - bedroom flat in north Somerset . it be not a penthouse or anything luxurious ; it be simply a home . they purchase it in 2015 with a 999 - year lease , and it be a new build , so it be theoretically cover by the NHBC 10 - year guarantee . they believe it would be an ideal long - term rental property , without too many maintenance issue ahead . a neighbour flat go up for sale in August 2024 , and the buyer ' s solicitor ask for an up - to - date fire risk appraisal . this prompt the management company to organise an assessment of the external wall , and the report strongly recommend clad remediation work . my constituent would have know none of that , have it not be for the seller keep they in the loop . the new financial protection in the Building Safety Act 2022 apply to leaseholder in building above 11 metre , or five storey in height , with historical safety defect . from 28 June 2022 , qualify leaseholder in England could no long be charge for clad remediation , and there be legal protection for non - clad cost . the accompany secondary legislation come into force on 20 and 21 July 2022 . the Government be clear that developer must pay to fix building that they have a role in develop or refurbishing , even when they no long own the building . that seem right . the Act ensure that building owner who be , or be associate with , the developer must pay for the remediation of historical defect . the court have be grant new power to extend liability to associate company , ensure that civil case for claim against defective building can be bring against company associate with a developer , prevent the use of complex corporate structure to avoid that liability . qualifying leaseholder be protect from all clad system remediation cost . those whose property be calculate to be worth less than £ 175 , 000 outside London , or £ 325 , 000 in Greater London , or whose building owner have a group net worth of more than £ 2 million per relevant building as of 14 February 2022 , be exempt from all historical safety remediation cost . the Act also include a robust package of measure design to ensure that those responsible finally put right the building they have contribute to make so dangerous , and that leaseholder be firmly protect from the unfair cost of remediation that they previous face . no one could disagree that , on the face of it , that be fair . unfortunately , the previous Government fail to notify any leaseholder , qualifying or non - qualifying , of the implication of the Building Safety Act 2022 , which come into force on 28 June 2022 . however , four month ago , my constituent have no knowledge of the non - qualified leaseholder status that have be bestow on they . without any prior notice or consultation , my constituent ' legal right as leaseholder have be significantly change , backdate to 14 February 2022 . that be because , as of that date , the threshold for non - qualified leaseholder status cut in at ownership of four property . it be very hard to find definition of non - qualified leaseholder status on the Government website . there be plenty about qualified leaseholder status , but very little about non - qualified leaseholder status . the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , have confirm that , weirdly , under the previous Government ' s legislation , a couple can own five property , provide that they own their primary home jointly and two other property each . however , a couple who own four property jointly become non - qualify leaseholder . who on earth can think that be fair ? that will discriminate against couple and family as compare with sophisticated business entity , which be probably the intended target of the legislation . do my hon . friend agree that the Grenfell Tower inquiry have lay bare the failure of successive government in their duty of care to their citizen and reveal a catastrophic culture of carelessness that have cause untold suffering ? do she agree that the Government must act urgently to assist all leaseholder , include those currently exclude , such as non - qualify leaseholder resident , like my constituent , who be unfairly leave in financial and emotional turmoil through no fault of their own ? yes , I agree with my hon . friend , and I will come on to some of those issue . sophisticated business entity be probably the intended target of the legislation , so there be good news for people who have divide their property asset , and bad luck for those who jointly own their property investment , which be a terribly random criterion . it be shocking enough for my constituent to find out that the nine - year - old building in which their flat sit have a cladding issue , but due to the fact that they jointly own four property on 14 February 2022 , they be leave largely unprotected . they be not like the developer or clad supplier . not only that , but their status as non - qualify leaseholder have be attach to their flat in perpetuity . even after all the remediation work have take place , century have pass — currently , this be another 990 year on the lease — and they have depart this world , every future owner of their flat will inherit the same diminished lease , while neighbouring flat be protect from the cost of make the building safe . the impact of the legislation be profound . solicitor be advise their client not to buy any flat with the non - qualified leaseholder status attach , even after the fire safety work have be complete . lender be refuse to lend on property of that status . the value be expect to reduce considerably , possibly by as much as 50 % . estate agent realise that try to sell property with this status be pretty much a lost cause . non - qualified leaseholder can not sell their flat — they be mostly flat — and can not mitigate the risk they have be expose to . if a leaseholder have a 75 % mortgage and the value drop by 50 % , it be easy to see how financial crisis can hit ordinary people who save hard , invest in brick and mortar and be provide home for rent all over the country , help alleviate our housing crisis . insurance premium be sky high . if this continue , it be likely that lender will not want to take possession if there be a default on the mortgage , because they themselves would become liable . leave a flat with this status in a will may expose family and friend to long - term problem associate with its status , as they will potentially inherit a liability not an asset . the legislation have remove a whole tier of property from the ever - increase number of young buyer and those who want to downsize , such as old citizen . it be clear that without the support of surveyor , agent , solicitor and lender , it will become increasingly hard to secure one ' s first or last home . whatever one ' s political ideal , surely we all agree that there be a terrible shortage of affordable home , and the affordable end of the market often come in the shape of a leasehold flat . I can not find the path of logic through this legislation . I have no idea who try to think this one through — I recognise that it be not the Minister . it seem deeply unfair that someone ' s legal right can be different from those who own flat in the same building , just because my constituent have four or more property in their ownership on 14 February . will the Minister try to explain the logic , though I recognise he do not write the legislation ? it would be nice if his opposite number , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , would have a crack at try to tell I how it work — I just do not get it . it be a bit like someone have their car recall for a safety issue and have to pay to correct the problem and any other safety problem in the future due to the fact that they and their family have three other car between they , and they might want to sell the car once the safety fault be fix . this be madness . the Minister be on the record as have confirm that the Building Safety Act 2022 be write to safeguard the health and safety of those who live in the affected building . if a non - qualified leaseholder have a leasehold flat as their principal flat , they be protect . what about the tenant who live in the flat own by private landlord who be in this trap ? be they not important enough to be protect , too ? the Minister far confirm in a letter last month that once the property be bring up to standard and safety remedy be complete , in the year ahead " the expectation be that the qualification point should essentially become moot " . there be plenty in the Government ' s guideline about non - qualify leasehold status remain with the property in perpetuity . I can find absolutely nothing about it become moot . I wonder how the Minister see that be legislate for . on the subject of Government guideline , they be so complicated and hard to interpret that solicitor be at loggerhead over their ramification . my constituent ' management company initially confirm that they would be liable for all the cost associate with clad remediation work , even if the building be accept into the cladding safety scheme — that is , until my constituent be able to get the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to write to they confirm that they would be protect under the cladding safety scheme . however , it fall to my constituent to get proof and to convince their management company . bad than that , the Department advise owner to contact LEASE — the Leasehold Advisory Service — to establish their right . LEASE confirm both on the phone and in write that my constituent do not qualify for any help or support in the cladding safety scheme . they be advise by other in the same predicament to contact the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . can the Minister confirm who should indicate whether non - qualify leaseholder be cover by the cladding safety scheme ? these Government Departments be set up to help and guide people such as my constituent , yet they be give completely conflicting advice . that situation have cause my constituent anguish , sleepless night and constant worry about the possible life - change financial burden that may be head their way . if the government do not sort that out so that advice be clear and consistent , we be all lose . will the Minister meet my constituent and I to far discuss non - qualified leaseholder status as soon as possible ? rise — order . as the House will have realise , many member wish to speak in the debate , so in order for we to help each other , I be afraid that I will have to impose a four - minute limit on speech . I call Ben Coleman . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I fully understand the challenge that you face , so I will do my good to keep to four minute . it be an honour to follow the Deputy Prime Minister and so many hon . friend and hon . member , and to have so many people sit up in the Public Gallery listen patiently to the debate , have suffer so much over the year . I begin by recall , as other have , the 15 disabled people who die in the Grenfell Tower fire . there be no plan in advance to ensure that they could be evacuate in a crisis . I be pleased that the Government have announce today , in publish their response to the consultation , that they will introduce a set of measure on residential personal emergency evacuation plan . however , I agree with Grenfell United that personal emergency evacuation plan for disabled resident must be mandate — that be essential . let I turn to other matter that my hon . friend have set out so well . the report be scathing about the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea and its tenant management organisation . what leap out in page after page of the report be the council ' s absolute lack of respect for so many of its resident — how it refuse to listen to people live in social housing when again and again they raise concern about the problem with the Grenfell building that eventually contribute to the terrible fire ; how it treat the most dissent voice as enemy ; and how , once the fire have happen , it treat its own resident . at the time , I be a councillor in the neighbouring borough of Hammersmith and Fulham . the day after the fire , our council become aware , purely by chance , that Kensington and Chelsea council have place Grenfell resident in hotel in our borough , because some of those resident happen to wander down to the local West Kensington and Gibbs Green estate , where they be give food , shelter and clean clothing . they happen to mention that they have be place at the Holiday Inn Express in Fulham , and our council leader get council officer to go to all the hotel in the borough , which we discover be full of Grenfell resident . no one from Kensington and Chelsea council have try to tell we . the report talk about the council ' s response be " muddle " and " piecemeal " , but perhaps another word be " cruel " . team from Hammersmith and Fulham council keep a close eye and visit every week to look after the resident as good we could . my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) come and sit with Grenfell resident on the grass at the West Ken and Gibbs Green estate . they ask , " be you really a Member of Parliament ? because no one official from our borough have be to see we at all . " I can not speak highly enough of how the community respond . I be keenly aware that where Kensington and Chelsea council fail , the community get it right . the council in Kensington and Chelsea say that it be determined to learn from what it get wrong . that be very welcome , as be the fact that the scope of its review be go to explicitly consider racial as well as social discrimination — I look forward to that be the case . however , I still have serious question about whether that council really get it , because thousand of my Chelsea constituent live in social housing , and time and again they say that they do not feel that their voice be be hear , or that the culture have change . the Friday before last , I decide to call a meeting on the World ' s end estate to talk about some serious crime issue — sadly , a man from another estate have be stab in an altercation and have die . I invite all the resident to come and have a conversation with I about it . to my surprise , senior councillor from the Conservative Kensington and Chelsea council try to dissuade I . they say that they have already engage with resident and that another meeting would bring no more benefit . in the event , more than 50 resident come . we have a great conversation ; not everyone agree with each other , but everyone have a chance to speak and to be hear . only one thing really shock I , which be the number of resident who say at the end of the meeting , or even during the meeting , that they have live on that estate all their life or for decade , and that this be the first time they have ever be to a meeting like this on the estate — one where they feel listen to . to sum up , I hope that resident will be listen to . if I may , I hope that we will have a debate like this every year , so that we can look at the recommendation . I request that Front Benchers enable that to happen . I be grateful for your time , Madam Deputy Speaker . I , too , start by join the Deputy Prime Minister in express my sincere condolence to the family tragically impact by this avoidable disaster . I welcome her statement and the positive step and action she have outline to address the finding of the inquiry . I welcome the plan to introduce heavy penalty for those who fail to meet repair deadline , but I share the concern of campaigner that the timescale for make property safe be way too long . the Deputy Prime Minister may say that the Government be take " decisive action " , but the building safety fund be first open for registration in 2020 . the 2029 target must not be for the first building to be remediate — it must be guarantee to be when the last one will be . for over seven year , resident and leaseholder have continue to live with the mental anguish that the property they and their family go to sleep in every night be unsafe , aware that what happen to the resident of Grenfell could well happen to they . as we have hear , resident also face extortionate home insurance bill and rise cost for repair that should be the sole responsibility of the developer , while leaseholder face ruin , financially trap in property that they buy in good faith but be build in bad faith . to widen the argument and the issue at hand , the picture of property developer cut corner to make a profit and disregard human life in the process be one that , before Grenfell , we want to believe belong to a bygone era . unfortunately , it be very much the reality of 21st - century Britain ; a culture have become embed where corporate boss think they can get away with cut corner in the pursuit of profit . we have see the ugly imprint of that culture again and again , whether it be Government lobbyist scamme the public purse during the covid crisis , water company pollute our river , the blatant disregard for truth and basic decency in the Post Office Horizon scandal , or people be burn alive in building that be not fit for purpose . the only way to root out that culture be regulation to protect the public from those who seek to exploit they , and I be concerned that the Deputy Prime Minister do not go nearly far enough in that regard . we know that the property industry in general be rife with profiteer , and I be concerned that we will see more of the same as property agent hike up fee , earn hundred of million of pound in the process by charge administration fee on work to make building safe . in opposition , the Labour party commit to prevent this by call for the nationalisation of the process of fix high - rise flat to eliminate administration fee , and I encourage the Government to pursue that policy . I would like the Deputy Prime Minister to consider apply the risk assessment to building of under 11 metre as well . campaigner be right to say not only that a comprehensive risk assessment must apply to building of all height , but that build safety crisis go far beyond external cladding and a holistic approach must give equal consideration to non - clad defect — order . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her speech , and I associate myself with her word . she remind we that we should once again remember the victim , the survivor and those leave behind after the tragedy of the 72 entirely preventable death in Grenfell Tower . there be many lesson to be learn from this tragedy , and resident in Southampton Itchen , especially those in the 46 block still affect by unsafe cladding , be look on anxiously to see if we learn those lesson . these be some of the people who know far too well and far too personally just how slow the progress have be of make all building safe . as this government embark on our ambitious plan to build 1 . 5 million new home , we and , importantly , those who will call those house their home , need to know that they be safe . sadly , however , such peace of mind be not yet feel by many resident in my constituency , where an unacceptably high number still live in building affect by clad or fire safety risk . some remediation have happen , and that be to be welcome , but in too many place it be not happen fast enough , or leaseholder be pay the price , as in the countless example we have hear . they include those who live in block that do not meet the 11 - metre threshold , and who be get unexpected bill for ten of thousand of pound through their letterbox . I recently hold a public meeting with constituent await fire safety work . among the many who come to share their experience , Ellie have see her service charge soar from £ 1 , 600 a year to over £ 6 , 000 , and she have no idea how she will afford it . in the same block , Stewart tell I he feel as though no one care after the same service charge hike leave he and his family trap in a property they have outgrow . just down the road , Daniel be not only face escalate service charge of £ 3 , 000 , but his insurance now top £ 4 , 000 on top of his rent and on top of his regular bill . James happen to live in one part of a tall development in which his building be under 11 metre , yet he be face remediation charge of between £ 15 , 000 and £ 30 , 000 . those responsible can not yet decide how much they be go to charge the resident , and this be simply not acceptable . other have tell I about the change they want to see implement , so in the time leave I want to make my constituent ’ view and voice hear in this place . they want a clearly define single construction regulator that can channel effort to drive change , and I be sure they will welcome today ' s announcement . many be stick in unsellable flat , and they could not tell we who exactly be responsible for keep they safe . that need to change . they want to see a much clear role for manage agent . what exactly be their responsibility , and what standard will they be hold to ? they want to see improved regulation of insurance and service charge — again , that be touch on in the report — so they be not charge for remediation work through the back door , which be simply not fair . with an eye to the future , people want we to move away from the feudal system of leasehold , which this Government be commit to deliver . they want much well - quality housing , so they can move into place where they know they be safe . in short , people want , need and deserve a way out of this mess . the remediation action plan show that this Government be take these issue seriously . I would just urge Ministers , even where deadline be set , to move even more quickly , where possible . we have begin the crucial work to put right this scandal , and we must not rest until that be do in full . I be here to talk about the people , their treatment and their right , and I be sorry I do not have more time to do the topic justice . I have be a London Assembly member for one year in 2017 when the Grenfell disaster happen , and it have such a huge impact on my work and on I personally . I will never , ever forget the many thing that I see and hear . I will never forget the smell , the burn debris on garden hedge , the community ' s shock and heartbreak , and its spirit as it call I and many other elect representative down there to try to deal with the issue that they themselves be deal with and identify . the people around Grenfell , the victim , the 72 people kill that day — they be constantly in my heart when I work on any related issue . I be also a councillor in Camden , and a few day later five of our block have to be evacuate due to related issue , so I have a perspective of deal with a non - fatal but nevertheless disruptive evacuation and incident . let I rattle quickly through a few of the recommendation relate to people , and to these issue . I be desperate on behalf of the resident I represent then , and those I represent now in Brighton Pavilion , where we have a huge number of medium and high - rise block that need work . for no good reason I still see many of these issue emerge in relation to the treatment of resident in block , the information they can get out of their landlord , the slowness of the action , and the fact that substandard work be still be do on many people ' s block — I should not still be do this so long afterwards . let I start with the recommendation relate to management . the way that the TMO treat its resident be abysmal . we have see much evidence for that , but the report get to the heart of it when it state that however " irritate and inconvenient " it may have be to deal with those resident , " for the TMO to have allow the relationship to deteriorate to such an extent reflect a serious failure on its part to observe its basic responsibility . " the housing ombudsman echo that , speak of gross imbalance of power . resident who ask question , or who start to organise their neighbour to have some kind of collective voice that might get thing do , be still talk about as troublemaker , as militant , or as a nuisance . I be still encourage not to listen to those resident when there be issue , which be not correct . I also want to focus on transparency of information — these thing be the basic building block on which resident trust can possibly be build . in 2017 I be have trouble get fire risk assessment from Camden council . I go to the Information Commissioner ' s Office , which respond in a fantastic way . she be clear that council need to publish those assessment proactively , yet here I be represent resident in Brighton , and it have take 18 month . my predecessor , Caroline Lucas , first ask the council to publish its fire risk assessment when she realise that it be not comply with the ICO ' s recommendation . I write to the council about the issue back in September when I realise that be the case , and finally last week I be tell that some assessment would be publish imminently . that be just not good enough from council . I do not even know where to start when try to get information about non - council landlord . it have be ridiculous on behalf of so many resident . finally , I want to talk about the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 and its recommendation , which be tremendous . the humanitarian response on the ground be nowhere near good enough — Order . I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , and other , and I very much welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s write statement today , and her speech highlight why the Government be act and what they be do . we know that this be a systemic failure over many generation and across many part of Government . in fact , in 2018 the late James Brokenshire issue a ministerial direction to civil servant to ensure that the original money be spend to remove the most dangerous cladding . I speak to the senior civil servant who have have to go back and speak to predecessor about what have go wrong , but no one have see this come . so I say to the Deputy Prime Minister that if there be a big lesson in this , it be about how the Government manage risk and watch for the unintended consequence of action . even with all the problem nobody intend that such thing would happen , but that be what can happen if we do not keep our eye on the ball , and I hope my right hon . friend will take that back to the heart of Government . the impact in my constituency have be immense . Hackney as a borough have the second large number of unsafe building in London , with the London Fire Brigade show that 93 % building in Hackney be at high risk — a large figure than all other London borough except Tower Hamlets , as we hear from my hon . friend the Members for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) and for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) . we have 72 building that be over 18 metre tall . together , Hackney and Tower Hamlets in the heart of east London account for almost a quarter of the building in London with fire safety failure . I invite the Minister to meet we in any of our constituency , or indeed in this place , to talk about what can be do across east London , because the impact be terrible . insurance premium have go up massively . many of my constituent who be leaseholder face bankruptcy . the mission to achieve change by 2029 will be too late for some . there be also disruption to their life . they be unable to move on , and be put off have a family . their life be on hold while they wait for the matter to be resolve . I concur with the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) about housing association , but in the interest of time I will not repeat they . some of these property be own offshore or have opaque ownership . that be one of the reason that James Brokenshire issue a ministerial direction . he realise that one of the building with the bad cladding have have 89 owner since it be build . if there be one thing that the Government can do , they can stop our home become vehicle for offshore finance . that be why 2029 be a challenge . the National Audit Office report that have be cite say that we will not see change until 2035 . with the construction industry in its present state , and all the other pressure that the Government will face when try to invest in infrastructure , I would love to hear from the Minister how we will ensure that we have the right construction skill in this country and , if it be what be require , that the Government will allow migration in order to ensure that we have the right skilled people in place . finally , I will highlight a wide issue about how we support family affect by fire . on 5 June this year , during the election campaign , a fire gutte a building on Dalston Lane in the Pembury Estate , with 36 household escape with just the clothe on their back . of those household , 10 be still in temporary accommodation — the Peabody housing trust do a good job in the early day of get they house — and many be still live in hotel room . someone who be in her 90 be try to be offer a place by an estate agent . today , I launch a campaign , which other member be welcome to join , to require landlord to have a wide set of plan to help tenant in the aftermath of a fire or other crisis . yes , there be the immediate challenge — happily , there be no fatality on Dalston Lane — but the ongoing impact on resident be immense , with mental health challenge , disruption to their life and trauma . we need a holistic approach to support tenant and resident in those situation , and every landlord should be require to have that model . I associate myself with the remark of the Deputy Prime Minister , who do well to capture the tragedy that we all experience so many year ago . the tragedy of Grenfell Tower will forever remain in our collective memory . on the devastating night of 14 June 2017 , 72 life be lose and many more be impact forever . the event of that night leave a deep wound in London ' s history , physically and mentally . I extend my deep sympathy to the victim , the family and all those affect . the fire change their life in unimaginable way . seven year on , justice for the victim be painfully overdue , yet thousand in the UK still live in building wrap in dangerous flammable cladding . of the nearly 5 , 000 building identify as have dangerous cladding , less than half have begin work and only a third have complete it . between 4 , 000 and 7 , 000 building be still unidentified , highlight the absolute failure of the last government to get a grip on the crisis . that failure leave an alarming number of building and resident still at risk . just day before the publication of the final report in August , a fire break out at a tower block in Dagenham . thankfully , there be no fatality , but more than 200 firefighter battle flame that spread rapidly due to non - compliant cladding . these unsafe building be tick time bomb . resident in London live in constant fear of another disaster . across London , include in my constituency of Sutton and Cheam , tower block still possess non - compliant cladding , which could pose a serious risk to resident . the previous Government mandate that local authority must make these building safe ; however , crucially , they provide no funding to support that , at a time when local authority be already face severe underfunding . as a result , million of pound be add to council housing revenue account as an unplanned financial burden . bad , Government assistance through various scheme be exclusively direct towards leaseholder , leave local authority and tenant without support . although I welcome this new Government ' s commitment to the replacement of all flammable cladding by 2029 , urgency be of the utmost importance . it be essential that all dangerous cladding be remove as soon as possible and that leaseholder should not be require to pay a penny towards these necessary safety improvement . this work be as a result of the failure of builder , product manufacturer and regulator to ensure that the building that resident live in be safe . the report be utterly damn on the failure of the industry and the criminal negligence as a result of the fail safety test that be hide . the industry focus on contrivance and profiteering , instead of resident ’ safety . we must all work to ensure that the mistake of the past be never repeat . another Grenfell must never happen . this tragedy will always serve as a stark reminder of the devastating consequence of neglect safety and justice for local authority resident . justice for the victim of Grenfell mean a commitment to immediate action to implement the 58 recommendation of the phase 2 report . that be not just for they , but for every community still at risk . in the short time available I want to say to the survivor and the next of kin — some of whom be here today ; some will be watch from home — that I be sorry they have be so severely let down by the previous Government and by their council . I hope that the word of the Deputy Prime Minister today have give some comfort . Brent East be just next door to Grenfell , and we watch the fire unfold . they say that 72 people die , but the reality be that we do not really know the exact number , as people from Kensington tell I . every time we say that this disaster be preventable , we have to be honest about what happen in the system . some 85 % of people be black and a minoritise group . that be why they be not listen to and be ignore . Grenfell United and Grenfell Next of Kin have be fight for more than seven and a half year . as my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) say , they be still not be listen to . they have be so badly let down , and there need to be an investigation into what happen , how the council use Grenfell to get fund and what happen to those fund . there be so much that need to be discuss . I also notice that Kwajo be here . he be a housing campaigner and activist . that be an indication of how much people of colour be not listen to when they try to say that there be an injustice . why be the cladding put on the building ? the resident do not want it . it be so that it look pretty and nice to the more wealthy resident down the road . we have hear about the profit , the greed and the deregulation that cause this catastrophe . if we want it not to happen again , we have to be honest about why it happen in the first place . my thought be with the bereaved family and survivor . every year , we go on the silent march . I remember speak to a little girl who be a little bit old now . she say she be study for her gcse and that the day after she be take they , which she pass . she say that be what she be focus on , but what be the family and survivor focus on now ? it be justice , which they have not get . until they have justice , none of we should rest , and none of we should feel comfortable — this may well happen again — because justice delay be justice deny . I pass Grenfell on my way home most night , and every time I pass that building , I say a prayer for everybody who die , everybody who survive and all the name we will never know . on 14 June 2017 , the country watch in horror as image of the fire engulf Grenfell Tower emerge . I feel it in the pit of my stomach as the true scale of the devastation and loss of life become apparent . this tragedy should never have happen . I will call it out for what it be : a national scandal . I hope that the family , friend and community affect by the fire can find some peace in the fight for justice , but as I stand here I be remind of another disaster : the Summerland fire in 1973 , with combustible cladding , critical matter of safety of life ignore and disregard , and a catalogue of failure . fifty people die in that fire , include 11 child , and many more be injure . those event be 44 year apart but the parallel be all too clear . speak in 2013 , a photographer call Noel Howarth , who capture picture of the fire as it engulf the Summerland leisure complex , say : " unless we learn from history , we will repeat the mistake we make in history " . whether it be 2017 or 1973 , justice must be serve and lesson must be learn . both campaign for justice have my full support . I might only be five month in as an MP , but I have hear every Government promise to cut red tape . the thing be , regulation keep people safe in their home and in the workplace . there be organisation and people who should have face a trial over Grenfell by now . the criminal process should have happen simultaneously with the inquiry . there be plenty of evidence — plenty of proof — but the survivor of Grenfell be still wait for action and justice . when we look at Orgreave , Hillsborough , infected blood , the Women against State Pension Inequality , Horizon and Grenfell , we see that the list of injustice that impact working - class community go on and on . these be share struggle , because Grenfell be not about clad . Grenfell be about how the state have repeatedly treat the work class with utter disdain and contempt . in reality , there have be a lack of urgency around implement lifesave change so far . the inquiry must change thing . time be of the essence , because how many Lakanal Houses or Grenfell tower must there be before thing really do change ? we can all talk in sombre tone in the Chamber , but why be people still go to their bed surround by flammable cladding tonight ? Grenfell survivor deserve justice , and firefighter and every community across the country deserve a properly fund fire service with the equipment they need to save life and keep themselves as safe as possible . for example , firefighter deserve proper decontamination unit to reduce their risk of get cancer while at call - out . funding , rule and regulation do save life . our fire service and our working - class community across the country need to be invest in , not strip bare , hollow out and fail by the state . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her speech . I put on record my deep sympathy to all the family affect by this terrible tragedy and thank member from across the House for their thoughtful contribution to the debate . in particular , I thank my hon . friend the Members for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) for their emotive and powerful speech . Group Commander Rod Wainwright serve for 26 year . he have a distinguished career of service in the London Fire Brigade . he say : " I be not on duty that night , 14 June 2017 . the fire brigade do not have the correct team on duty and call I to assist with the incident but never recall the correct team or number of staff require to be effective from Gloucester . that team should never have be outside of the M25 leave London unprotected . I be call around 1 am . I spend 15 hour on the scene and be never relieve or give the assistance that be require . I have counselling from LFB counsellor on three different occasion but it wasn ' t effective . I ask for specific ptsd counselling from a specialist and for the brigade to pay . they say ' no ' and to use the in - house option again . the specialist would have cost around £ 2 , 000 , but I be tell " — by the director — " that it wasn ' t suitable and send the wrong message . I be diagnose with complex ptsd and subsequently medically retire with no recognition , thank or acknowledgement from senior management . " as I have tell the House before , Rod blame himself for not save more people that night . however , in my view , he too be a victim of failure . I will say again that people like we in suit in this room be to blame for the tragedy of Grenfell , not hero like Rod Wainwright . the executive summary to the phase 2 report make that clear . it make grim reading to we all . it describe the systematic dishonesty of those who make and sell the rainscreen cladding panel and insulation product . they allow customer to continue to buy product in the UK despite knowledge gain from fire in Dubai in 2012 and 2013 . I repeat : systematic dishonesty . I apologise to the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) because this be in his constituency , but briefly , in another early MP surgery I be visit by Claire Newman , who tell I of the story of her mother Daphne Holloway and her neighbour Ivy Spriggs , who die in their bed during a nursing home fire around the same time as the Grenfell disaster . the nursing home have no sprinkler system . I welcome the commitment from the Deputy Prime Minister that all new care home will be give sprinkler system , but I ask for some consideration , as Claire be ask for , of put in sprinkler retrospectively . although care home do not meet the 18 - metre requirement , I also ask that they be include on the high risk register . on that terrible morning in 2017 , 72 people die in their home . family be break . life be destroy . let we please learn lesson from that tragedy . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Member ' s Financial Interests . first of all , I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , plus all the London mps who have bring home what Grenfell mean in their constituency . however , the consequence of Grenfell be feel right across the country , and they have go on for far too long for the resident of my constituency . have the previous Government proceed at pace with the confidence to take on developer with legal obligation and severe penalty , my resident would not still be stick in building that have not have the remediation require . each year since Grenfell , thousand of people in Milton Keynes have be leave bad off , impact their financial and mental health . a woman in my constituency — we will call she Angie — buy she flat with her husband in order to downsize , and be mortgage free and financially secure in their retirement . unfortunately , she lose her husband , and with her single pension she can not afford the 600 % increase in insurance cost that she have see in the past seven year . she be accumulate debt that she will never be able to pay , and she can not sell her flat to prevent further debt . her plan for a secure retirement have turn into a nightmare that she can not get out of . that be why I welcome the Government ' s announcement today to challenge that practice by the insurance industry , and to promise to act if the insurance industry do not . have the Deputy Prime Minister have discussion with the industry about any retrospective reduction for those who have be affect by those huge insurance hike ? the Grenfell report rightly identify the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea for its many failing , but not all local authority be slow to respond , such as my own in Milton Keynes Central where two council housing tower block be deal with within a year of the tragedy — well within the guideline that the Government recommend , and with no financial support from the Government . I would welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s view on whether the council that take action , at huge cost to their housing revenue account , should be reward for their proactive attention with help to build more council home . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to put local authority at the heart of the solution , but development be still be put forward that might not meet build control requirement , especially the permit development of office conversion to flat . that be not currently a material consideration , so local planning committee have no choice but to pass it . will the Secretary of State review the planning rule so that no building , new or converted , be unsafe for its resident ? will she also consider whether building control should be fully in the hand of local authority , so that developer can no long use their favourite private building control to sign off development ? the privatised BRE and its role in ensure new material have be bring up by many . will the Minister consider renationalise the BRE , so that there can be no question of any company influence over the safety of new building product ? finally , it be not just tall building that have be affect . for far too long , those in building like Backus Lodge in my constituency , which have be rate b2 under the EWS1 framework since March 2022 — order . I call the final contribution from the Back Benches . I strongly welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s statement , which show that she care and be resolute in seek redress . the essence of how our country be run with regard to public safety be at stake , so I hope my right hon . friend and other hon . member will agree that , for public confidence and for the deterrent effect to grow , not only must we ensure that justice be not deny by be delay ; it be also for we to ensure that justice — in the form of individual , organisation and company be properly hold to account — happen at all . that be important because , as other hon . member have allude to , in previous case of egregious state and business failure , there have be insufficient justice of this kind . we owe this to the Grenfell victim , to the survivor and indeed to wide society . I call the shadow Minister . this evening ' s debate have be appropriately serious and wide - range , and I will open by thank the many who have enable it to be just that : the excellent journalism of the BBC , which have ensure that not just the initial fire , but the inquiry and the lesson learn from it have remain at the forefront of public debate ; and the survivor , the supporter of Grenfell United , some of whom be here tonight , and the many other who contribute to the inquiry process and to ensure simply that Grenfell remain at the forefront of the public mind . I also thank Sir Martin Moore - Bick , who chair the inquiry . I know it be the subject of some criticism when he be first appoint , but when we read the phase 2 report and consider everything that lead up to it , we can see that it be a serious piece of work that put we in a position to make good decision about what need to change . it be our parliamentary duty to consider these most serious of matter . we need to ensure that we get it right for the sake of the survivor and the family of victim , but also for all the other people who have be speak about in the Chamber this evening : those who live with anxiety about their own personal safety and circumstance , and those with a stake in the system , who need to ensure that the legislation that have flow since the tragedy , and the action that the new Government will need to continue , be fit for purpose . to that end , I confirm that the opposition will support the Government to implement the proportionate and necessary measure that be require to keep the public safe . many member across the Chamber have say that those who have intentionally cut corner on build safety need to be hold to account , and the opposition agree . while it have take a long time , the inquiry process have gather really good evidence , which will provide the Metropolitan police and other that may be involve , include the Crown Prosecution Service , with the beginning of the evidence base need to hold specific individual to account through criminal charge and to pursue action against those developer and contractor who we now know clearly and fraudulently cut corner on build safety for their own financial gain . it have be say very clearly that we also need to ensure that the big business — the big corporate — that may have condone that action need to be exclude from profit from future public sector procurement activity . there will be further lesson to learn from the inquiry . I pay tribute to a number of member who make very serious and consider speech . the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) talk about the rise of the tenant management organisation . that be example of where there will be difficult question for all party and Government Departments to consider . the purpose of the previous Labour Government in introduce arm - length management organisation be to create a mechanism by which additional funding could be put forward to enable a high standard to be achieve in the social housing sector . however , I also know — the Kensington and Chelsea Tenant Management Organisation be a good example of this — that that create an additional barrier of governance between the local authority , which in most case be the freeholder of the property in question , and the tenant , who in theory gain additional control through the creation of board to oversee what happen in their building . however , as the phase 2 report spelt out very clearly , effective governance often fail to materialise . instead , there be often mutual finger pointing , with each thinking that somebody else be responsible for the critical fire safety issue . those lesson about governance , however difficult they may be for both side of the Chamber , must not be glossed over . it be clear , as have be set out , that the Government intend to take robust action . it be the Opposition ' s contention that they have solid foundation to build on . as the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) set out , James Brokenshire — the then Minister , since sadly deceased — set out swiftly after the fire , once some initial information about its cause be available , that £ 400 million funding be to be make available to social housing provider and local authority in 2018 to ensure the swift remediation of social housing setting with the most high - risk cladding on the exterior . that be follow with legislation : the Fire Safety Act 2021 , the Building Safety Act 2022 and the Social Housing Regulation Act 2023 . each be design , as the process of inquiry be progress and as other evidence come to light , to ensure that we be address , as far as we could , those thing that we be legally able to do at each of those stage , first on the basic of fire safety , and then on to the broad lesson emerge about build safety and ensure that social housing regulation — in what be a diverse sector — be fit for purpose . I thank the hon . Gentleman for give way ; I want to repeat the point I make early , to see if I can get a response this time . we know at various stage that there need to be skilled people , from surveyor to contracting , to carry out the remediation work . look back , do he regret that perhaps some of that effort be not put into develop those skill early , so that constituent of our who be still wait for remediation could perhaps have have it do more quickly ? the hon . member be absolutely right to highlight the lack of capacity as a huge issue in the sector . those who have be interested in housing for a long time will know that the remediation of risk can be incredibly complex . the Bison block , which many of we will have in housing build in our constituency and across London , be supposedly make safe in the 1980 in response to particular gas safety risk , and we know that other structural risk have subsequently emerge . make sure there be people with the detailed knowledge and technical ability to address those risk effectively be critical . we welcome the plan that the Government be set out to accelerate the work that be under way to remove dangerous cladding . we will be scrutinise and work with the Government to ensure that that continue to progress . the previous Government make available over £ 5 . 1 billion to remove unsafe cladding from building identify as high and medium rise , and therefore most at risk , give the inherent risk to resident of it be on building with a high number of floor . we need to ensure that that work be complete . it be positive news that , accord to the Government ' s figure , on 98 % of the high - rise building with the most dangerous style of cladding , the work to remove it have be either start or complete by July 2024 , but we know that that come in the context of many other risk about which our resident and constituent will be concern , and we must ensure that those be address effectively . when we look back to previous debate about building safety , we see that , as a number of member have mention this evening , we can not simply focus on the issue of cladding and material and set aside issue such as the effectiveness of fire - stop and fire door , which have often come to light during inspection subsequent to Grenfell as be deficient in all manner of building . we should bear in mind the debate between the technical expert about whether sprinkler or mister be the most appropriate mean of fire suppression in different type of setting , about the need to provide effective source of water for the fire brigade , and about whether dry riser or wet riser be the most effective . issue involve access for rescuer and fire safety operative , and also the ability of resident to escape — again , those have be highlight this evening — also need to feature in our thinking . as a number of member have point out , include the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , the emergence of new risk , such as much large number of lithium battery drive electric bike that be be charge in residential premise , be now at the forefront of the thinking of our fire brigade , as they look not just at the historical risk , which we know about and can take action to mitigate , but at the emerge new risk . they need the equipment , the technology and the capacity to ensure that they can deal with those factor , should they encounter they in a context in which there be a risk to life . other member have highlight the importance of deal with the problem of , in particular , constituent who may not be able to benefit from the funding already in place for social and council tenant because they be leaseholder — in some case , leaseholder in investment property . they find that their property be uninsurable , and that it be very difficult to obtain a mortgage . People want to purchase those property to be their home or to be part of a pathway that will give their family access to the size and quality of housing that they need . those pathway must be reopen , and people who be trap by some of those issue must see they address . in all those respect , we undertake as an opposition to support the Government in ensure that fully effective measure be in place for the future . while much of the debate have focus on the role of the supplier of product use in construction , it be important to acknowledge the need to ensure that our exist estate be safe and fit for purpose . local authority , social housing provider and other landlord have a multitude of legal obligation , but I be conscious , from my experience as a local authority councillor , that not all occupier wish to engage with that process . the local authority that serve my constituency have to go to court from time to time to gain access to property , simply in order to carry out safety check for which they be responsible as landlord and which be an element of keep the big building of which those individual home be a part safe for the benefit of all the resident . we must ensure that those local authority , social housing provider and other landlord have effective tool , so that the expectation we be set for they can be realise without compromise the safety of resident , and that mean be able to gain access expeditiously . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , in what I think be a very thoughtful and consider contribution , henceforth we must have a more effective , more independent system for manage all those risk . when the phase 2 report be publish , Councillor Elizabeth Campbell , who be now the leader of Kensington and Chelsea Council , set out , in a way that I think deserve credit , her acceptance of failure , on behalf of her local authority — I should make it clear that she be not in charge of housing before the Grenfell fire , although she be a serve member then — a willingness to take responsibility , and the ownership of that improvement journey , in response to the detailed recommendation in the report . clearly , the response to Grenfell have now span two government of different party . we can be broadly proud of our record . we have pass those piece of legislation and allocate substantial sum of money , which have build the foundation to ensure that public and private housing in this country be safe for the tenant and resident of the future . the baton have now be hand over , and it be the Government ' s job to ensure that everyone else in the system be do their job to the high standard and in accordance with the law . the Government can count on the Opposition ' s continued support in the delivery of that , but they should also expect to be hold to account , because it be the interest of everybody in this country to ensure that it be achieve . this have be an important debate on the finding and recommendation of the Grenfell inquiry . as the inquiry ' s phase 2 report and today ' s debate have make clear , fundamental change be need to make our home secure and safe , both now and in the future . I say in a building safety debate a few week ago that , like other colleague , I reflect on where I be on that night seven and a half year ago . it be a poignant moment . have sit on the other side of the Chamber , I think that if we have say then that we would be where we be now , we would have be exceptionally surprised and disappoint that not enough progress have be make . it now behove the Government of the day to move at much great pace , build on the inquiry ' s recommendation to move at speed . the inquiry ' s finding on the cause of the tragedy tell we something about a building safety system that be fundamentally break , that have bake - in deficiency and that go unchallenged by authority across the piece , and about the relentless dishonesty of individual . but it also tell we about Britain and the country in which we live . the consequence be building with unsafe cladding and 72 people lose their life , which be devastating for their family and for the community . as the Prime Minister and my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister have say , we apologise on behalf of the british state . we can not say sorry enough . as the Prime Minister have set out , the Government be consider our response to the report and have commit to come back within six month with our response to the recommendation , as well as to give Parliament the opportunity to debate it at that time and on an annual basis . I say from the bottom of my heart that this have be an important debate for shape the Government ' s response to the report . I have some point of my own to make , but I will major on the point make by colleague , because there have be a lot of important question and comment that need a reply at this stage . I will start with my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , who shape both the spirit and the content of the debate . he speak with purpose , but I could detect quite a lot of anger as well . when I speak to bereaved people , the next of kin , survivor and the immediate community , it be clear how angry they be with how little progress have be make , how tired they be of tell people like I their story , how much pain it cause they to tell their story again and to hear it play out in our nation ' s Parliament , and how angry it make they that we can not say that this tragedy will not happen again , which be shameful for our country . my hon . friend talk about the merry - go - round of blame . let I tell he that the report ' s recommendation provide a chance for a single response , own singularly by the Government of the day , to break that merry - go - round . the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , speak with characteristic power . what I take from her contribution , and what I suspect will be the work of her Committee , be the need for more systematic action . we have say that we will address the recommendation within the timeline to which we have commit , but we understand that systematic challenge in the building safety industry have be highlight by the inquiry report , the Morrell - Day report and the Hackitt review , all of which we will pick up as part of the process , because the whole system need reform . that take I to what the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) say . he be come to see I in the next few day to discuss his thoughtful idea about safety investigation that have work in other industry , and the Government be all ear . my hon . friend the Members for Kensington and Bayswater and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green talk about manufacturer . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have say , the Prime Minister have commit that we will take action against culpable manufacturer . as the first step in that process , the Cabinet Office have write to organisation name in the inquiry who bear different responsibility for these failing . for those find by the inquiry to have be part of these horrific failing , this be the first step in stop they be award Government contract . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say , the Government intend to publish guidance to support this first set of decision early next year to stop the most egregious company get Government contract . a number of colleague mention issue relate to leaseholder , and I shall start with leaseholder protection , which come into force on 28 June 2022 . qualifying leaseholder be protect from the cost of legal or other professional service relate to the liability or potential liability incur as a result of a relevant defect . the Building Safety Act 2022 also provide for remediation contribution order , which allow interested person to apply to the first - tier tribunal for an order require build owner to pay to fix unsafe building , but I be strike , as a Minister , by how often colleague tell I that these thing be not happen . the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) , who be no long in his place , mention Abbey House , which I be keen to talk to he about . I will also meet my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) to understand how this be manifest itself for her constituent . my hon . friend the Members for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) talk about insurance for leaseholder , and it be impossible not to be strike by the financial and emotional impact that high insurance premium be have on leaseholder . affected leaseholder have be burden with pay high premium for too long , and as part of the remediation acceleration plan , we have announce that we will work with insurer to consider whether , for the duration of remediation programme , the Government might support industry to reduce fire - relate liability in order to reduce the high insurance bill that leaseholder be face . we have also launch a public consultation today on our plan to prevent excessive building insurance commission for landlord , for property manage agent or for freeholder be charge to leaseholder . our intention be to replace those with a fair and transparent fee . I have mention qualify leaseholder , which take I to the point about qualifying and non - qualify leaseholder that the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) raise in this debate and early in oral question . she invite I to set out a path of logic for the distinction between qualifying and non - qualify leaseholder . I would maintain that , in principle , the difference between what we would consider an ordinary resident and what we would consider a business own perhaps very many property be a distinction that we would want to draw when provide public relief . at some point we have to draw a line . the hon . Lady speak with great eloquence about how that have manifest itself for married couple , and I know from my conversation with many other that there be similar edge case . we will look at those edge case , and I be keen to meet she because she speak with great power about one such case in her community . with your forbearance , Madam Deputy Speaker , I want to correct something that I say during oral question early , because it be an important distinction . I talk about the need to find the balance between those who build a building and those who live in it , but in reality , the balance we need to find be between those who have financial interest in a building and those who live in it . that be slightly different . I will correct the record formally , but I do not want to miss this first public opportunity to do so , give the importance of the point that be raise . the question of justice be raise by my hon . friend the Members for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) and for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) . speak to survivor , to the next of kin and to the immediate community , it be impossible not to be strike by their anger and their entirely natural need for justice . I have to say , as build safety Minister , that to some degree this be the element of the entire piece that I find most challenging because , quite rightly , the police and court be independent of Government . we of course speak with the authority , and I know that they hear very clearly from those affect about the need for pace . the Metropolitan police have say that it will take time , that it be one of the large and most legally complex investigation they have ever conduct , and that they have 180 officer and staff dedicate to the investigation . a question be ask about court capacity , which colleague will know be of great importance to this Government . we be work very hard to relieve the pressure on Crown court to ensure they be not the point at which justice be prevent . an hon . member whose name I have not note ask about memorialisation , and it be important that I make it clear on the record that no decision have be make about the tower ' s future . this matter be be lead by the Deputy Prime Minister , who recognise the importance of listen to the community on this sensitive issue . she be actively do so , and it be right that the bereaved , the survivor , the next of kin and the immediate community be at the heart of this conversation . it be part of a process , and there be unanimity across all involve , include in this place , on the need for a fitting and lasting memorial . we salute the important work of the independent Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission and will support it in any way we can . colleague , include my hon . friend the Members for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) and for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) and the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , mention the role of local authority . as the shadow Minister say , the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea have admit that it fail in some of its most basic duty : to keep resident safe ; to listen to and act on their concern ; and to respond effectively when disaster strike . the Government will work very closely with the community to hold the council to its commitment to improve its service for resident . I will shortly meet the council leader to discuss a number of issue that resident have ask I to raise — we will work very closely . the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion and my hon . friend the Member for Brent East both speak about the importance of transparency . transparency be always important in local government , but it be crucial when rebuild trust after a tragedy have lay bare such failing . in that spirit , my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) speak powerfully about Rod Wainwright , the brave firefighter on duty that night . the action of the London Fire Brigade have be refer to the independent inspectorate , which be very important . however , with the Fire Minister sit beside I , I assure the House that the Government be responsible for overall oversight of fire and rescue service , and for ensure public safety more broadly . we will work with the inspectorate , the Mayor of London and the LFB to support the brigade ' s continue progress . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch speak about skill . seven year on , it be clear that we have miss an opportunity . young people should want to go into the house building industry , as this be skilled , well - pay and important work . the Government be work with the Industry Competence Committee to make sure that we have a competent house building workforce capable of deliver safe , high - quality home , which be especially important in the light of our commitment to build 1 . 5 million home during this Parliament . in the autumn , the Government launch Skills England , which will work closely with employer and other key partner to identify and address priority skill gap , include in construction . the Budget make more money — £ 300 million — available for further education , include in construction . today , I have have a conversation with mayoral combined authority and elect mayor about how they can use their locus on skill to promote this industry . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ask whether we would be willing to lean on the shortage occupation list , if need . that would not be the Government ' s preference , of course , but it be a commitment that have be make . I will use my remain time to talk about the remediation acceleration plan , because a number of colleague have talk about the importance of quick remediation . I be grateful to the Opposition and the Select Committee for their warm sentiment , but I be clear that success be never in a plan ' s publication . as the shadow Minister say , we expect to be hold to account for the commitment we have make today . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) talk about the need to be quick and , again , 2029 be not when it will start but when it will be resolve . our commitment be that by the end of 2029 , all residential building 18 metre and over with unsafe cladding in a government - fund scheme will have be remediate , and every residential build 11 metre and over with unsafe cladding will have either be remediate , have a date for completion or the landlord will be liable for severe penalty . our plan have three objective . first , it will fix building fast . I be pleased that we , as a Government , have secure an important commitment from developer to accelerate their pace . secondly and crucially , it will identify all building with unsafe cladding . if we talk to ourselves seven and a half year ago and say , " in seven and half year ' time will not even be able to say how many building there be with unsafe cladding , but the good range we will be able to give the House be somewhere between 4 , 000 and 7 , 000 " , that speak to the point make by the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) that that clearly be not good enough . finally , it will support resident . on acceleration , our plan have set a clear timeline and we will actively pursue the landlord of building who refuse to act . we will ensure well co - operation between regulator . we be work hard with metro mayor to provide localise plan , because often the building be in combine authority area , so we need to work in partnership . on identification , we have set up a " tell we " tool through the cladding safety scheme , so resident can tell we directly . we be work very hard go through Ordnance Survey map and do all the line - by - line work need to assess 175 , 000 building record by April — 540 , 000 in total — to ensure we find all the building that have clad defect , so remediation action can take place . I know there be a lot of interest in protection for resident , which I have talk about a little . I hope what I have be able to say about insurance be welcome . we look forward to make good on that . if the market will not deliver , we will work closely with developer to change commission . I will draw my remark to a close . today ' s debate have be very important and have highlight just how far we have to go , as the inquiry show we . we still have thousand of building with unsafe cladding . we need a complete reversal if we be go to put people and safety first , ahead of profit , empower resident and hold those responsible for the safety crisis to account . we have commit to build 1 . 5 million home during this Parliament , which our country desperately need , but they must be safe , secure and decent home . the package of measure we have set out today through the remediation acceleration plan will help we with that . as have be mention , residential peep will improve fire safety and evacuation of vulnerable people in high - rise and high - risk building . I have not have time to talk about the replacement of wake watch , but we be extend the wake watch replacement fund , so that leaseholder can access that and get an alarm in place . all of our work take place with those 72 life hold at its heart , and in our heart . they be fail by the system at all point and fail by this country to all degree . we be so sorry for what happen , but I know the people involve have hear those apology and those word from people like I too often . we can do only one thing to make thing well : deliver . the inquiry have help we on our way and our plan be develop . I be grateful for the contribution colleague be make , but now we must deliver . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the Grenfell Tower Inquiry phase 2 report . business without Debate Human Rights ( Joint Committee ) order , that Tom Gordon be a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . — ( Samantha Dixon , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) National Security Strategy ( Joint Committee ) that Liam Byrne , Sarah Champion , Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi , Bill Esterson , Andy Slaughter , Emily Thornberry , Derek Twigg and Matt Western be member of the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy . — ( Samantha Dixon , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) medical aid during Conflict Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) civilian always pay the high price in conflict . medical aid during conflict be critical to save life and , more importantly , be protect under international law . yet , in recent conflict , much of that lifesave aid have be deny . not only do that shame all of we on a basic human level , but as a surgeon where healthcare and aid have be at the forefront of my professional life and , notably , where I have be directly involve in provide aid , I feel that as a particular pain . I secure this debate to highlight the fact that civilian and medical aid worker be impact by armed conflict . everyone catch up in conflict have an inalienable right to aid , and it be not the gift of any country or anybody else . I note that under international human right law , the right of the wound and the sick must be respect in all circumstance , and attempt on their life and violence against their person be strictly prohibit . wilfully kill they or cause great suffering or serious injury to their body or their health constitute war crime , as grave breach of the Geneva convention . I commend the hon . Gentleman , who I speak to beforehand , for bring forward such an important issue . do he not agree that even during the bad of the world war , and there have be some terrible war over the past few year and there still be , the red cross symbolise medical aid be always a signal of ceasefire , and that that must still be the case today ? do he agree that we must far encourage all our ally and friend across the world to ensure that medical aid be never prevent from reach those who need it most ? I thank the hon . member for put that so eloquently , and I wholeheartedly agree with every word and sentiment . it be not just those typically physically injure by conflict that medical aid support ; it be those who need insulin for diabetes , dialysis machine to keep their kidney function work , and antibiotic to treat life - threaten bacterial infection . People who need basic medical support be catch up in the struggle . the figure support this : in Lebanon , 74 % of people over 50 have two or more chronic condition , so be at increase risk during time of conflict . the same rate of aid be clearly not get through in current world conflict . those suffer in Gaza be not receive the same aid . since April 2023 , the escalation of armed violence in Sudan have result in famine and displacement . to our credit , in November 2024 , this UK Labour Government increase aid to Sudan by £ 113 million , include medical aid . that have provide medical staff , out - patient consultation , emergency room admission and access to feed programme for child and adult . of course , there be lot more to do . since Putin invade Ukraine in 2022 , the UK have give £ 5 billion in non - military contribution and a total of £ 457 million in humanitarian support , include medical aid . that be in addition to what people be do locally on the ground in every city in this country , include my own city of Glasgow , where my friend and surgical colleague Mr Vladyslav Shumeyko , a consultant surgeon at the Queen Elizabeth university hospital , have personally send ton of medical aid to Ukraine . I pay tribute to his tireless , selfless work and that of other charity worker , whose contribution have save thousand of life . I thank my hon . friend for secure this fantastic debate . the whole House will benefit from his medical expertise and political commitment to this issue . I have the great honour last week of host a meeting in Parliament to hear the heartbreaking testimony of Professor Nizam Mamode , a good friend and former colleague of my hon . friend — he be a great transplant surgeon . Professor Mamode explain how during his work in Gaza this year for medical aid for Palestinians he treat child victim of drone strike and sniper ' bullet . he say he have work in war zone around the war , but nothing have be as horrific as what he have see in the repeat , regular attack on child in Gaza by the Israel Defence Forces . do my hon . friend agree that if the israeli Government be allow to get away with what they be do in Gaza under international law , other regime around the world will see it as a green light for think that civilian and medical staff be a legitimate target in war zone ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s intervention . that highlight this country ' s adherence to the international rule - base order . we must always comply with international law , even — and perhaps particularly — when that may seem difficult . I acknowledge the important work of organisation such as Islamic Relief , which operate in my Glasgow South West constituency , throughout the UK and across the world . since October 2023 , Islamic Relief have provide over £ 30 million in aid and deliver over 51 million hot meal in Gaza alone — and that do not include its work in South Sudan . despite that , medical aid be severely restrict in Gaza . the United Nations Relief and Works Agency and other agency have be unable to deliver essential medical equipment — include medical swab to stem bleeding and lifesave medication such as penicillin — and essential vaccine campaign roll - out have be delay . that have all be compound by this weekend ' s event . I thank the hon . member for give way and pay tribute to he for secure this important debate . as well as provide valuable aid to various area of conflict and need , do he agree that the UK and organisation such as the UN should do more to enable its delivery and to take action against the looter and oppressor who stop it get to the people who need it ? I wholeheartedly agree with the hon . member ' s sentiment . aid should not be impede by anyone , be they state actor or individual criminal . at the moment , further aid in Gaza have be suspend follow an israeli airstrike that kill five humanitarian worker employ by US - base organisation World Central Kitchen . the UN have say that it be necessary to stop the delivery of aid into Gaza because of the threat pose by armed gang . UNRWA ' s final decision come after the late airstrike . accord to the Famine Review Committee , there be a strong likelihood of famine in Gaza . my conversation with colleague on the ground in the region have confirm how scarce food be , with very limited meat , cheese , snack , fruit and vegetable . I understand that people be now survive on ration rice . what conversation have the Minister have with international partner to ensure that famine do not break out in Gaza ? as an international actor , it be imperative that the UK ensure that international law be upheld and medical aid reach people catch up in conflict everywhere . international law dictate that people who be provide medical task must always be respect and , more importantly , protect . medical professional in the region be risk their life to treat the injured and ill . my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) mention my colleague Professor Nizam Mamode , who recently return from a month perform surgical operation in Gaza . he tell I when he be there , and on his return , of the life that he try to save in increasingly difficult circumstance . he describe it to I as hell on earth . what discussion have the Minister have with regional actor , include the israeli Government , about ensure the safety of those deliver medical aid in Gaza ? Ambassador Barbara Woodward , the UK permanent representative to the UN , recently say to the UN Security Council : " there be no justification for deny civilian access to essential supply . the Government of Israel must do more to protect civilian , civilian infrastructure , and allow aid to be deliver safely and at scale . " I be sure that those word be wholeheartedly endorse by all member of this House . I be proud that this Labour Government restore funding to UNRWA , provide £ 21 million to support its work , and have give £ 5 . 5 million to UK - Med to support its lifesave work in Gaza . that funding and aid be necessary , but I wonder whether it go far enough . our concern now be how we ensure that the correct amount of aid reach the people of Gaza . what discussion have the Minister have with the israeli Government to allow aid convoy to enter safely into the region ? child in Gaza be die and suffer needlessly . accord to the UN Human Rights Office , nearly 70 % of people kill in Gaza be woman and child . that report have find unprecedented level of international legal violation , include of the right to medical aid . this include child now have complex medical need without access to the requisite specialist in any other nearby country . what discussion could be have with regional actor and the UN about potentially bring such child to the United Kingdom for treatment , as some of our international partner have already start to do ? I will conclude by reiterate the salient point that anyone catch up in conflict have the right to aid — it be not a gift or an act of benevolence by anyone else . we must now ensure that our record on this issue be one that future generation in this House can look back at , not with regret or contrition , but with pride . we have have an excellent debate , lead by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) . I congratulate he on secure this debate , on his work in the national health service , on his ongoing commitment as a surgeon , and on his deep expertise in this issue . I be also grateful for the intervention of other Members present , and I will try to respond to the point raise . this debate take place at a timely moment , because the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , be actually in Cairo as we speak . she be at the Gaza humanitarian conference , discuss — among other issue — the importance of ensure that aid worker , include medical worker , can operate effectively and that civilian have access to the service they need . the Foreign Secretary , alongside his french and german counterpart , have also write this week to the Government of Israel to urge strong action . I begin by pay tribute to the extraordinary work that aid organisation and health worker be do in some of the harsh condition around the world . as member would expect , the UK firmly support all effort to prevent conflict in the first instance , but where conflict do occur , those affect must have access to medical service . medical worker and facility must be protect in line with international humanitarian law . access to medical service include routine care for pregnant woman , safe delivery of baby , child vaccination and primary healthcare for all . those service be always important , but they be especially so when people be desperate to reach a safe place ; when food and clean water be scarce ; and when sexual violence be an increase threat , as be so common during conflict . the tragic loss of life among health worker , include in Gaza and Sudan , be a stark reminder of the danger face by those who deliver lifesave medical assistance during conflict and crisis . let I now turn to how the UK be help . in short , we be act on three key front . first , we remain committed to promote compliance with international humanitarian law and encourage all party to armed conflict to respect it . we be work to minimise impact on civilian by protect health worker and medical facility , by work with the United Nations and the Red Cross to ensure that those affect by the conflict have access to the help they need , and by sign up to the political declaration on strengthen the protection of civilian from the humanitarian consequence arise from the use of explosive weapon in populated area . we reaffirm long - stand and ongoing effort to protect civilian in this regard . secondly , we be target our aid towards those most in need , whether by provide medical supply , help to train medical staff , or ensure that those medical staff have safe access to patient . can the Minister inform the House how much of the aid provide by the UK be actually get into Gaza , and to the people who need it ? the most recent figure in open source from the weekend be that , of the usual 500 lorry go into Gaza , about 67 get in . that be in the press at the weekend . I be very pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West talk about the importance of aid get in . we have redouble our diplomatic effort in implore that access be improve , so that we can get aid in . we have triple the aid , but what be important be that we gain access . that be the case whether it be in the Gaza conflict , in Sudan or in help desperately ill people in Myanmar . all across the globe where that be an issue , we be make access a key issue in our diplomatic work . sometimes we be more successful at that than at other time , but we try to work across international organisation to ensure that crucial access for patient . the fcdo be also fund partner organisation within country , such as the World Health Organisation , UN agency and the Red Cross , to help they to prepare for and respond to conflict effectively . we be support a range of specialist non - governmental organisation and local partner to deliver critical medical service at the frontline , especially where no other partner can deliver . the key strength of locally lead organisation be that they be staff by people from the affect area and the community themselves . the third way we be help be by deploy specialist medical team on the ground , of which my hon . friend have a great deal of knowledge . will the Minister join I in commend my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) for secure this Adjournment debate ? he will be too modest to highlight his considerable skill and knowledge on this subject , but before take his place in this House , he practise as a transplant surgeon in my constituency of West Dunbartonshire and my home town of Clydebank , where he work in the Golden Jubilee hospital . do the Minister agree with I that the situation in Gaza be catastrophic , that Gazans be in desperate need of food , shelter and medical support with the onset of winter , and that the UK should be the lead voice in ensure real world humanitarian solution ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the expertise of our hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West . very modestly , our hon . Friend also mention another colleague from Scotland . it be these professional who make such a difference on the ground , and I know the whole House be thankful to they for their work . I be sure my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) be excited to have these expert in his constituency . we know that there be time when the health system of a country be so deplete during conflict that there simply be not the capacity to help people despite international support . that be why we invest in the UK ' s official emergency medical team , so we can deploy specialist medical staff to help save life . as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West will be aware , the team be make up of highly qualified medic from around the UK and beyond our shore . they be train to deliver high - quality surgical and specialist rehabilitation care to save life and reduce disability . for example , the british emergency medical team have recently start provide service in Lebanon , treat patient with burn and other injury . the same team have help alleviate suffering in Gaza this year . until now , they have provide 275 , 000 patient consultation across a wide range of medical service . he mention the winter , and there be a new term in the world of aid , which be winterisation , where aid organisation club together to address the specific issue that come up at this time of year . I be sure hon . member will agree that this be an extraordinary accomplishment under the most challenging of circumstance , yet perhaps one story capture the impact of all strand of our work well than anything else . I would like to share with the House the story of a three - year - old girl call Razan from Gaza . in the early morning hour of 1 September , a bullet pass through the thin fabric of the family ' s tent . it go through her mother ' s hip and lodge in the neck of her child . the child be rush to a hospital run by UK - Med and fund by the fcdo , and the mother be take to another facility for her own life - threaten injury . the little three - year - old girl be in surgery for three hour in a tented field hospital surround by fight , fear and uncertainty . miraculously , the bullet have narrowly miss her spinal cord , and thank to the skilled work of the UK surgical team , it be remove and she have recently be discharge . that be only one story among a quarter of a million patient consultation see by the british team , and it bring home the importance of the train medic , critical supply , and safe access that we talk of early . let I respond specifically to the point raise by the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) about evacuation . we all know that the plight of sick and injured people in Gaza be deeply distressing , but we have try to work closely with Israel , ask it to engage with partner urgently to establish sustained safe and timely passage for patient who need medical or surgical intervention that be not available in Gaza . we recently announce £ 1 million for the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population , deliver through who Egypt to support medically evacuate Palestinians from Gaza , because it be close to the region . the UK be also support the provision of essential healthcare to civilian in Gaza , include support to UK - Med for operate its field hospital . there be provision that allow Palestinians to come to the UK for private medical treatment under the immigration rule . where a relevant application be make , consideration will be give to exceptional circumstance , or where there be compelling or compassionate ground . the Government be keep all option under review in response to event in Gaza . in conclusion , the UK remain fully committed to protect medical worker and ensure that people have access to medical aid during conflict . while those action be make a tangible difference on the ground , there be of course more to do . that be why we will continue to advocate for the protection of the most vulnerable , address barrier to access medical service , and strengthen our own medical and surgical capability to deploy in conflict . question put and agree to . House adjourn .