Speaker ' s Statement before we proceed to question , I be pleased to inform the House that the Reverend Mark Birch have be appoint Speaker ' s Chaplain and Canon of Westminster Abbey — he will formally take up that post on 7 November . Mark have be a minor canon at Westminster Abbey since January 2015 . he be make a member of the Royal Victorian Order in March 2023 for his part in organise the funeral of her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II . he play a central role in rehearsal and preparation for the coronation of their Majesties the King and Queen . he have a wealth of experience : before he join the abbey , he serve as a chaplain in a variety of setting — school , university and hospice — as well as serve as a parish priest . I know that he will be an effective , engaging and supportive presence for the parliamentary community , and I be sure that the whole House will wish to join I in welcome Mark to his new post . oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Winter Fuel Payment what estimate she have make of the number of pensioner in poverty who will not be entitle to the winter fuel payment in winter 2024 - 25 . what estimate she have make of the number of pensioner in poverty who will not be entitle to the winter fuel payment in winter 2024 - 25 . what estimate she have make of the number of pensioner in poverty who will not be entitle to the winter fuel payment in winter 2024 - 25 . may I say briefly , Mr Speaker , that as my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister have say , 7 October last year be the deadly day in jewish history since the Holocaust , and we stand firm in our commitment to bring the remain hostage home and secure the immediate ceasefire and aid that civilian in Gaza and Lebanon desperately need . an estimate 880 , 000 of the poor pensioner be not claim the pension credit they be entitle to , so they do not get the winter fuel payment or pension credit of up to £ 3 , 900 a year . that be why we have launch the big ever drive to increase pension credit uptake and ensure that the poor pensioner get the support they deserve . have spend the run - up to the election scaring pensioner into vote for they by claim it be the Conservative Government who be a threat to their wellbeing , some of our poor pensioner will now be force to find out how difficult it be to keep warm huddled around Labour ' s gaslight . give that the Government ' s own equality analysis state that only 100 , 000 of the 880 , 000 pensioner who be eligible for pension credit be expect to apply for it , if all those who be eligible do apply , how much more will that cost compare with the initial saving from remove the winter fuel payment ? I say gently to the hon . Gentleman that upon come into government , we discover that 880 , 000 pensioner be not claim the pension credit they be entitle to . give that his former Government fail to take action to deal with that issue , I suggest that instead of make that point , he work with his council to increase pension credit uptake and look at the £ 1 . 8 million we have give to Peterborough council to make sure that all the help for pensioner , include on winter fuel , be make available . I remain deeply concerned about the pensioner in my constituency who will not be entitle to the winter fuel payment this winter — we be now into October . give that we now know that just 14 % of pensioner in absolute poverty receive pension credit , how can the Minister justify her Government ' s claim that they be focus support on those in the great need ? again , I say to the right hon . Lady that the reason so many of the poor pensioner be miss out be that her Government fail to increase pension credit uptake . we have launch the big ever programme to increase uptake of pension credit . for the first time , we will be write to all pensioner on housing benefit , and I urge the right hon . Lady to work with her local council and other to make sure that the poor in her constituency get the money they be entitle to . over 18 , 000 people in my constituency will lose the winter fuel payment , but this be not about figure ; it be about individual , which be why I be run a pensioner advisory service on Friday to help they with this issue . this be about people , so what do the Secretary of State say to people such as Rita in my constituency , who be look after her husband who have multiple sclerosis and who will not be eligible for pension credit and therefore the winter fuel payment ? I know that the hon . Gentleman have focus over many year on health and healthcare issue , and I would say to he that we be in this situation because his government leave a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . unlike Conservative Members , we take our responsibility seriously , and I would urge he to work with his council — they have receive £ 7 . 1 million in Hampshire and £ 5 . 3 million in Surrey from the household support fund — to make sure that all pensioner get the money they be entitle to . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I welcome the work that my right hon . friend be do in ensure that the uptake of pension credit be increase , but there be genuine concern about people who be just above that threshold who will remain in poverty — just under a quarter of a million in the north - west alone . in addition to the fantastic commitment there have be through the household support fund , will my right hon . friend be undertake any other mitigation to ensure that those pensioner live in poverty , particularly disabled pensioner , will not fall foul of this ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and I welcome she to her position as Chair of the Select Committee . alongside our work to increase pension credit uptake , the household support fund be available for those just above the pension credit level . my own council have do a lot of work to make sure that pensioner just above that level can get extra help with the cost of heating or energy debt . there be also the warm home discount , which be available not just to those on pension credit , but again to those just above that level if they be on low income and have high housing cost . I congratulate the Secretary of State on her ambition to sign people up to pension credit , but we know that about 780 , 000 people will not sign up in time and also that there be 1 million people in fuel poverty above that mark . give that we be really worried now , as winter be approach , about the impact that this be go to have , particularly on the health of old people , will she look at the work do by Energy Systems Catapult and NHS Gloucestershire on social prescribing to ensure that people can receive energy payment in that way ? my hon . friend raise a very important point . this be not just about urge people to come forward and claim . we be write to pensioner on housing benefit for the first time ever , and I be determined to bring forward the merger of housing benefit and pension credit , which the former Government delay for year . I very much agree about the need to bring together social prescribing with help from the household support fund and other area to make sure pensioner get all the help they need , and about the need to work with frontline NHS staff , as we be also do , to make sure that the poor who may be stick at home with chronic condition also know what they be entitle to . it be clear that one of the driver of pensioner poverty be the sheer number of pensioner eligible for pension credit who have be leave not claim it for successive year by the previous Government . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s zeal for make sure that we put that right , but how can we as member from across the House work with her Department to make sure that there be no unnecessary barrier for those who be eligible and in need of pension credit to claim it this winter ? I would urge all hon . member in this House to work with their local council , as I be do , to make sure that those on housing benefit and other pensioner know what they be entitle to , and to make sure that their council know that the household support fund — the £ 421 million we have set aside this year , despite all the problem we face — be also available to those pensioner just above the pension credit level . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the general election , the Labour party promise that it have no plan to means - test the winter fuel allowance , yet we learn that million of pensioner be to be affect . indeed , in 2017 the right hon . Lady ' s party produce an analysis suggest that around 4 , 000 pensioner would die prematurely be this policy to be bring into effect . do she stand by that figure of around 4 , 000 ? if not , how many premature death do she believe will occur as a result of this policy ? in 2017 , the right hon . Gentleman ' s party manifesto promise to mean - test winter fuel payment . until Conservative member know that they have to apologise to the british people for the 200 , 000 extra pensioner in poverty over the past 14 year , and for a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , which we be now put right but that have put the public finance at risk , they will remain on the Opposition Benches and we will remain on the Government Benches . I think I need to correct the right hon . Lady : there be actually 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolute poverty under the previous Conservative Government . she quite rightly be press the uptake of pension credit , but if all those who be eligible for it take it up , that will cost £ 3 . 8 billion , which be substantially more than the saving that be score at £ 1 . 4 billion . if she be successful in her aspiration , the cost will substantially outweigh the saving ; if she be not successful , potentially million of pensioner will be plunge far into poverty . may I ask she which it be ? there be 200 , 000 more pensioner in poverty , and I be happy to put those figure into the public domain to set the record straight . the saving we have put forward take into account the increase in uptake that we foresee . unlike Conservative Members , we be determined and will do everything possible — they should perhaps ask themselves why they first announce the merger of pension credit and housing benefit in 2012 and then put it off until 2028 — to change thing and get people the money they be entitle to . we will bring that forward to ensure that all the poor pensioner get what they be entitle to . I call Liberal Democrat spokesperson Steve Darling . there be 2 . 7 million pensioner over the age of 80 who would have benefit from the £ 300 winter fuel allowance . they be among the most vulnerable in our society . the right hon . Lady be right to say that the previous Government let they down , but let we not add insult to injury and have the new Government let they down . can she reassure the House that she will reverse the regressive approach that she have take to the winter fuel allowance , and not hit the most vulnerable people who be over 80 ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . he will know that this be not a decision that we want or expect to make . the reason we have take it be that we have to deal with the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance leave by Conservative Members . but in do so , we will as a progressive party always prioritise the very poor pensioner . that be why we be so determined to end a situation where up to 880 , 000 people miss out on the winter fuel allowance because they be not get pension credit . we be determined to put that right . access to work Programme what step she be take to reduce the time take for Access to work claim to be process . I thank my hon . friend for her question . labour ' s manifesto say that we will tackle the backlog of Access to work claim , and we will . we have improve the process and increase the number of staff processing claim , but there be more to do and that work be ongoing . do the Minister agree that delay to the processing of Access to work claim not only impact the individual and their health , particularly their mental health , but impact their ability to fulfil their potential and contribute to our economy ? what further step will she take to ensure that the process for help disabled people back into work be reform , to ensure that it be genuinely one of support that allow people to fulfil their potential and enable business to thrive ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . disabled people have the right to work like everybody else . we have an ambition to see an 80 % employment rate in this country , and we can not do that without the contribution of people with disability . we be work on an employment White Paper and develop our policy , and we want everybody in this country to make their full contribution , especially disabled people . child Maintenance Service what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Child Maintenance Service in collect payment . the Child Maintenance Service be commit to ensure that separate parent support their child financially and to take robust enforcement action against those who do not do so . between March 2023 and March this year , the percentage of parent pay something towards maintenance through collect and pay increase from 65 % to 69 % . this Government recognise that child maintenance payment play a crucial role in keep hundred of thousand of child out of poverty each year , and we be determined to do all we can to increase those collection level far . give that around half of child in separate family — that be 1 . 8 million child — be receive no support from their non - residential parent , do the Minister know when that figure might change ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point about those family who receive no support . I be tell that the figure be actually around 40 % , but none the less it be not good enough . although there be varied reason for that — indeed , there be some parent who do not want an arrangement — we be look , as he may be aware , at a recently conclude consultation on the future of the Child Maintenance Service . we will consider our next step with a view to try to increase collection level wherever we can . member have to stand to be call . I be not a mind reader ; I be pretty good , but I can not win the lottery . two constituent have contact I with separate but similar case relate to obtain child maintenance payment from abusive ex - partner . in both case , their abuser have be able to use feature of the system to avoid pay their fair share to their victim and their child , leave my constituent with a shortfall of thousand of pound . can my hon . friend tell I what step be be take to reform the child maintenance system to protect victim of abuse , such as my constituent ? the Department take domestic abuse extremely seriously . my hon . friend will be keen to hear that the recently conclude consultation I reference in my previous answer look to address some of the issue with the direct pay service . indeed , it consult on the potential removal of that service move forward . that service have be open to abuse and have lead to victim of domestic abuse continue to be terrorise . that be unacceptable , and we will look to address it move forward . winter Fuel Payment : Medical Conditions if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of means - testing for winter fuel payment on people with medical condition that be exacerbate by cold weather . I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . pensioner with a long - term health condition or disability may be eligible for disability - relate benefit , such as disability living allowance or attendance allowance , and these benefit also provide for an additional amount in pension credit for those on low income . the Government ' s impersonal approach be cold comfort to thousand of disabled pensioner , include Ann in my constituency . she have to boil water to prevent infection and use an electric nebuliser , and as a result she have high energy usage to protect her health . can the Minister tell Ann what sacrifice she should make to protect her health this winter ? this be a decision that we neither want nor expect to make , but when we come into office there be a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . there be mitigation in place . we have extend the household support fund and the hon . Gentleman ' s council will receive an extra £ 3 . 9 million . we be increase the state pension . through the triple lock , the state pension will increase by £ 1 , 700 in this Parliament . we will also deliver the warm home discount scheme , and I hope he will join I in make sure that every pensioner who be eligible for pension credit receive it , which will passport they to the winter fuel payment . we know that 2 million old people currently live in poverty in this country , with million more with income just above the poverty level . do the Minister agree that the Government should set up a pensioner taskforce to look at how pensioner poverty can be tackle once and for all ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I will meet he and any other member of this House who have concern on this matter . Pension Credit what step she be take to ensure pensioner who be eligible for but have not previously claim pension credit receive a winter fuel payment in winter 2024 - 25 . what step her Department be take to help increase uptake of pension credit . we have be run a national campaign since September across a range of channel , include print and broadcast medium , to encourage pensioner to check their eligibility and make a claim , and we will continue to work with external partner , local authority and devolve government to boost the take - up of pension credit . around 93 % of pensioner in Mid Bedfordshire face lose the winter fuel payment this year ; some of they earn less than £ 1 , 000 a month . what further support will the Minister give they to fill labour ' s black hole in their household finance so that they can keep warm this winter ? the winter fuel payment be once describe as the " large benefit pay to pensioner … regardless of need , give money to wealthy pensioner when work people on low income do not get similar support . " those be not my word , but the word of the Tories ' 2017 manifesto . claim pension credit can provide pensioner with additional help for housing cost , council tax and heating bill . we all have a duty to boost pension credit uptake to ensure that low - income pensioner in all our constituency receive the necessary support . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and the Work and Pensions Secretary collaborate with local authority and charity for the annual pension credit week of action , which take place during recess . what more can be do to ensure that low - income pensioner receive pension credit ? we be pleased to see 160 local authority respond positively to our call for action . they be work with we to drive the boost in uptake of pension credit . apart from the national campaign that we have be run , we will bring together the administration of housing benefit and pension credit in a way that the former Government fail to do . woman ' s State Pension age : Compensation what progress she have make on respond to recommendation on compensation make by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman in his report on change to woman ' s state pension age . what her Department ' s timetable be for respond to the recommendation on compensation make by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman in his report on change to woman ' s state pension age . I be the first Minister for eight long year to meet Women against State Pension Inequality campaigner to hear their experience directly . however , we do need time to carefully consider the ombudsman ' s report and evidence before we can outline our approach . I have long support woman in Bedford bear in the 1950 who have be fail by the DWP . we must do right by the WASPI woman , some of whom be struggle to make end meet . will the Minister tell they today when the Government will respond to the report by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , which recommend a compensation scheme ? the ombudsman ' s report be a serious report that take six year to complete and deserve serious consideration . we be carefully review the detail of that complex report and will come to a conclusion in the round . I echo the sentiment of the hon . member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) on this serious injustice , which be be compound by the lack of swift action for redress . it really matter to all our constituent , include mine in Norfolk and Suffolk , where I have speak to the local WASPI woman group , which highlight just how a big an impact it be have , include on woman bear in the 1950 who be struggle to make end meet . will the Minister please set out the timescale by which she will respond to the report and the action that will be take ? the ombudsman take six year to look into what be a serious , significant and complex set of case . we need time to look at that seriously , and we be do precisely that . vulnerable People : support into Work what step she be take to support vulnerable people into work . we be commit to support vulnerable customer into work . at jobcentre , for example , we can identify the support need and signpost people to course or organisation to help they overcome barrier . we will be say more about our proposal in the forthcoming employment White Paper . in my local jobcentre on Mare Street in my constituency , there be an extremely good team of DWP staff who work closely with vulnerable constituent to help they overcome the hurdle to get benefit and get into work . however , for people with fluctuating condition , and particularly mental health condition , there be many barrier both for they and for prospective employer . I wonder whether the Minister could give we a taster of what might be in the White Paper in term of support for employer in particular to encourage they to take on people with such challenge . I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s positive report of the work in her local jobcentre . she highlight a major challenge behind a significant proportion of increase inactivity over the past few year . we will set out our response in the " get Britain work " White Paper , but we be already provide tailor support in partnership with NHS talk therapy and individual placement and support in primary care . my hon . friend be absolutely right that there be a good deal more to be do . conservative - run East Sussex county council be threaten to close the Steps to work programme , as well as Linden Court in Eastbourne , which support people with learn disability to work towards employment . will the Minister urge the county council to halt its plan and to consider alternative such as sell off council building to raise the fund need to provide these essential service for people with learn disability ? the hon . Gentleman draw my attention to a concern development . my view be that we need more support for people with learn disability to get into work , not less . if he send I the detail of the concern he have raise , I will be happy to look into they far . I call the shadow Minister . the well - receive and groundbreake Buckland review of autism employment focus on the action need to help to tackle the lack of opportunity and outdated recruitment practice that do not meet the employment need of autistic people . how be the Minister — I welcome he to his place — go to use this review , which I seem to remember he welcome , to tackle the lack of understanding and ongoing stereotype to help to make real change via access to work and other DWP intervention ? I thank the hon . Lady for her welcome . I be look forward to a meeting with Sir Robert later on this month , and we will be talk exactly about that matter . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that answer . the disability action plan mid - year update be now somewhat overdue . can the Minister confirm to the House when there will be a much - need update ? in help vulnerable people to thrive in all walk of life , whether in employment or in respect of equality of opportunity , will the Minister ' s Government commit , like the previous Conservative Government do , to work towards host the 2031 Special Olympics ? we will be say more and we will provide an update in the forthcoming " get Britain work " White Paper . if the hon . Lady would like to drop I a line about the Special Olympics , I would be happy to look into that as well . Jobcentre access : Rural Areas what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the accessibility of jobcentre to people live in rural area . we need jobcentre to be well everywhere , include those in rural area with unique challenge . in the autumn we will publish a White Paper on our plan to transform the employment support system , which will change jobcentre . I welcome input on that issue from member from all part of the House . in South Shropshire , youth unemployment have rise over the past month . what be the Minister go to do to stop this worrying trend in rural community like mine ? I thank the hon . member for bring that point to the House ; it be a major focus of the work that be currently go into the White Paper . we have have very worrying development for young people since the pandemic , and we need to do much well to give they the good possible start in life . I will say it again : on this issue we welcome input from member on all side of the House . housing association be the second large investor in employment support in the UK , second only to the Department for Work and Pensions . their work invest in employment support for some of the hard - to - reach community , include rural community such as mine in Suffolk Coastal . will the Minister commit to work with housing association to co - design and co - invest employment support over this Parliament ? I thank my hon . friend again for her very welcome point . housing association be extremely important for connect with resident , who often have multiple vulnerability . when think about the journey into work we need join up service between the NHS , the local authority and our housing association . they will be a part of the future partnership , and I look forward to work with she for her constituency . Jobcentre plus what recent assessment her Department have make of the effectiveness of Jobcentre plus in help people get back into work . to be frank , the current system be focus on the problem of yesterday . in the last Parliament , economic inactivity increase and the employment rate fall . we be plan fundamental reform to the system that will focus on the problem of today and get more people into work , detail of which will be set out in our forthcoming White Paper , " get Britain Working " . will the Minister set out how the propose merger between Jobcentre Plus and the National Careers Service will help to tackle economic inactivity and change the way that jobcentre work with their customer ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; I be pleased to hear that one of his early visit as the first ever Labour Member for Southport be to his local jobcentre with the Minister for Employment , who I know would want I to commend all the staff at the Southport jobcentre . the truth be that , at present , jobcentre seem to function more as place from which benefit be administer than as centre support people into work . the merger of Jobcentre Plus and the National Careers Service will address that , enable we to get more people into employment and help those on low pay increase their earning , through more personalised and localise support , ensure that no one be leave behind . the challenge that jobcentre in Kendal and the rest of Cumbria face , as well as get people back into work , be the fact that our workforce in Westmorland be far too small . the average house price in our constituency be 12 time average earning , and waiting list for social housing be through the roof . some 66 % of all employer survey in our community recently say that they be work below capacity because they could not find enough staff , so if we want to tackle the problem in our economy , we need to do two thing : first , increase the amount of social housing and secondly , allow more flexible visa arrangement . would the Minister ' s Department work with housing colleague to provide more housing grant for our community and sign up to the youth mobility visa arrangement ? order . the hon . Member should know well . he get in a lot , so he should not take advantage of other member . the hon . member will be pleased to know that we intend to work considerably more flexibly to support the need of community in a varied and bespoke way . he have particular challenge because of the rural nature of his constituency and various other factor , but he will appreciate that I will not make housing or Home Office policy on the hoof from the Dispatch Box . I call the shadow Minister . jobcentre be extremely good , as we just hear from the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , who be leave the Chamber . yet the new Minister for Employment previously describe jobcentre as place nobody want to go , and claim that they do not offer real help . our jobcentre help to ensure that almost 4 million more people have work , compare with when her party leave office in 2010 . More than 2 million of those employ be woman . will the Minister and the DWP team who have make disparage remark apologise to work coach and DWP staff , who she and they have rubbish but who now have to look up to they as the new ministerial team ? I fear that the hon . Lady have misunderstand the criticism , which be levy not at our outstanding work coach but at the policy of the previous Government , who have leave we with economic inactivity at its high rate in year . we be the only G7 economy with a low employment rate than before the pandemic . those be the challenge that we have be leave with , and the problem that we will solve . Jobcentre Claimants : travel cost what guidance her Department have issue to private contractor work in partnership with Jobcentre plus on reimburse claimant ' travel cost . provider guidance , which be publish on gov . uk , make clear that contractor on all our employment programme must reimburse customer ' reasonable travel cost . I thank the Minister for that response . my constituent Connor be in a predicament : he be out of pocket for taxi fare to weekly or even twice weekly session with a Jobcentre plus private contractor . Connor tell I that the session last barely 15 minute and be not help he to reach his goal of become a mechanical engineering apprentice . will the Minister review the value of Jobcentre plus private contract to both jobseeker and taxpayer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . performance be review regularly and there be customer satisfaction survey , but unlike the previous Government , this Government want to publish performance datum so that everybody can see what be go on . I thank the Minister very much for his response . I think everyone wish for claimant to be able to get job opportunity without find themselves in a financial mess due to have to pay out for travel cost when they should be reimburse . this be a big issue in my constituency in Northern Ireland . will the Minister help directly those constituent who have be accordingly disadvantaged ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . I be not familiar with the arrangement in Northern Ireland , but certainly in the rest of the UK it be very clear that contractor ideally need to pay up - front , buy ticket and give they to the jobseeker before they embark on their journey , or , if not , reimburse they very quickly on production of a receipt . child Poverty Taskforce what step she be take to progress the work of the child poverty taskforce . tackle child poverty be a top priority for the new Government , and a personal priority for I . child can not fulfil their potential without food in their belly or a decent roof over their head , and we can not fulfil our potential as a country when the talent of so many be leave behind . that be why our new child poverty taskforce will drive action across every area of government to drive up family income , drive down family cost and give every child the good start in life . I welcome the establishment of the child poverty taskforce . how will the taskforce ensure that lesson , include on the role of housing cost in drive up relative poverty and the necessity of growth to drive down absolute poverty , will be learn from previous attempt to drive down child poverty in Wales and across the UK ? my hon . friend make a very important point about learn the lesson from the last time we be in government and lift more than 600 , 000 child out of poverty , and look at similarity and difference , not least that there be more child grow up in poverty in household , whether in the private rent sector or in social housing , and that there be more child grow up poor in a household where somebody work . get and create more good quality job , and help family into those job , be absolutely a crucial part of our child poverty plan . yet we have a situation where family with more child be impact by the two - child cap and the benefit cap , and the Government be refuse to get rid of those thing . at a stroke , they could lift thousand of child out of poverty and improve , overnight , their life chance . I appreciate the fact that the Government have the child poverty taskforce , but that be not make a difference to these child today , be it ? I be under no illusion about the impact 14 year of the Conservatives and the social security system have have on child poverty . that be why we be determined to take action across government to increase family income , drive down cost and , crucially , put in place long - term support , particularly in the early year . we will produce the strategy by spring . I be absolutely sure that every part of the plan will lift more child out of poverty . child Poverty what assessment she have make of trend in the level of child poverty in the last 10 year . the last Labour Government lift 600 , 000 child out of poverty . under the Conservatives , the number go up by 700 , 000 . there be now more than 4 million child live in poverty in the UK in the 21st century . in one of the rich country in the world , that be a complete disgrace . that be why the work of the child poverty taskforce , which I co - chair with the Education Secretary , be so urgent and so important . almost a third of child in the north - east live in poverty . the problem be particularly acute in the region . will the Secretary of State work with our Mayor of the North East , Kim McGuinness , on her excellent regional plan to reduce child poverty ? yes , we have already meet Kim McGuinness , on 19 September , when she set out the action she be already take . let I say to member on both side of the House that our strategy will be out in the spring , but we will not be wait until then to act . nationally , we have put £ 421 million into the household support fund to help the poor family , and mayor such as Kim McGuinness be do amazing work : they be work with school to ensure that people claim the benefit to which they be entitle , and , crucially , work with business to help they to do all that they can to tackle in - work poverty and ensure that work family receive the money for those child . carer ' s Allowance Overpayments what step she be take to tackle carer ' s allowance overpayment . what step she be take to tackle carer ' s allowance overpayment . the work of unpaid carer be vital and often heroic , and we be determined to give they the support that they need . we be currently look at option for tackle the problem of overpayment , include the possible introduction of a text message alert service . carer make incredible sacrifice to care for love one , but they can be leave deep in debt as a result of repay the allowance after unintentionally breach the qualifying rule . do my right hon . friend agree that we , as a society , have a duty of care to carer , and can he say more about the progress that the Government be make in overhaul carer ' s allowance and address the earning cliff edge ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I agree that we need to support carer properly . we want to get to the bottom of what have go wrong with these overpayment and why so many people have be catch out . we have be pilot the introduction of a text message service , as I have mention , which have involve texte 3 , 500 claimant to alert they when his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs inform the DWP that they have breach the current earning limit . we be currently look at the result , and if they be positive , that will be the first step towards address the overpayment problem . we will need to do more , but it will be a good first step . there be nearly 1 , 200 recipient of carer ' s allowance in Shipley . the current earning limit leave people vulnerable to accidentally accrue overpayment if they become ineligible for the allowance , and it also act as a disincentive , deter people from work as much as they would like to . will the Government consider raise the earning limit ? my hon . friend have write to I about this matter , and I welcome her commitment to make progress . in an excellent piece of work , the former Work and Pensions Committee make a number of recommendation on the earning rule , and once the new Committee be in place , we shall respond to the former Committee ' s proposal . the Minister have refer to the army of carer that we have across the country , but we also have an army of unpaid carer who be be deter from apply for carer ' s allowance because of concern about the financial implication . can the Government reassure those who have not yet come forward that they will be support properly ? I very much hope that we can , because the hon . Gentleman be right : there be a good deal of anxiety about these overpayment problem . we hope that the alert service will at least inform people when they run into a problem so that they do not then develop a large overpayment , which have happen all too often in the past , but we also need to look at the other arrangement relate to carer ' s allowance in order to provide the reassurance for which the hon . Gentleman have rightly call . Benefit Sanctions what assessment she have make of trend in the number of benefit sanction in the last five year . in May 2019 the universal credit sanction rate be 3 . 17 % . it reduce considerably during the pandemic , gradually return to 3 . 51 % by November 2021 . it then continue to rise , reach a peak of 7 . 29 % in October 2023 , but it be now fall , with a rate of 6 . 17 % in May 2024 . accord to recent research by Gingerbread , a high percentage of sanction have be misapply to single parent , not because they have not meet the job search requirement but because of miss meeting for reason connect with childcare . Max , a bereaved single dad of two , have his sanction overturn , which involve a fairly challenging process . will my hon . friend please look into the possibility of overhaul the mess of a system that be leave behind by that lot over there ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and , through she , I would like to thank Gingerbread for its work on this issue . there have always be , and always will be , condition attach to social security , but the past 14 year show what happen when we have a Government who be more interested in blame people and create cheap headline than offer real help . in our manifesto , Labour commit to review universal credit so that it make work pay and tackle poverty , and the report that Gingerbread have write will also help inform our child poverty taskforce . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be determined to put transparency at the heart of the DWP , so I have today publish 31 report that be sit on by the previous Government — something that my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability have long campaign for . under this Government ' s leadership , the DWP will be honest about the problem that the country face and focus on the solution need to help people build a well life . that start with our forthcoming White Paper , to get Britain work again . I first join WASPI woman — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — in their welcome campaigning activity back in 2017 . seven year later , they be still fight for justice . can the Minister assure woman in my constituency and across the country that she will act urgently , unlike the previous Government , and bring this injustice to an end ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I meet representative of the WASPI campaign before this Government be elect . my hon . friend the Minister for Pensions be the first Minister to meet they in eight year . it really be a serious report that require serious consideration . we will do everything possible to get this issue resolve as soon as possible . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on 10 September , two day before recess , I lead a debate in this Chamber , secure by the Conservative party , on the winter fuel allowance . the right hon . Lady speak just now about transparency , but there be no equality impact assessment make available for that debate . indeed , on 30 August , by way of a write question , my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) establish that the Government have no intention of publish that particular report . yet on 13 September — two day after the debate and the vote , and one day after Parliament have rise — the report be make available . it be clearly , in my opinion , deliberately withhold . do the right hon . Lady agree ? that be not true . the Conservative Government do not even allow the Office for Budget Responsibility to do an analysis of Liz Truss ' s disastrous mini - Budget and sit on 31 publication that , under their own rule , should have be publish . we publish an equality analysis . the right hon . Gentleman will know that that be never do for secondary legislation when he be in government , but this Government will be open and transparent , which be what we be already do . since the election , numerous constituent have contact I to raise concern about the Child Maintenance Service ' s inefficiency in collect arrear payment . can the Minister outline the measure be take to enhance the service ' s effectiveness in this area ? my hon . friend be entirely right to raise this issue . he will be pleased to know that this Government be look to utilise new power to obtain a liability order without recourse to the court , reduce the time take to secure such an order from 22 week to around six . we come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . Mr Speaker , may I draw your attention to a report recently publish by the University of Bath , which highlight that benefit claimant face a series of cliff edge if they claim additional fund ? if a family earn just £ 7 , 399 , they lose the ability to claim free school meal . what plan do the Minister have to tackle the lack of compassion in the system ? I be not familiar with the report to which the hon . member refer , but we commit in our manifesto to review universal credit , nearly 15 year after it be first launch . the cliff edge issue and other will be among those that we will want to look at in the course of that review . after 14 year of Tory economic chaos and 17 year of Scottish National party public service failure , as many as one in four child in my constituency now live in poverty . last year the Scottish Children ' s Commissioner say that the former First Minister , Nicola Sturgeon , have " absolutely " fail young people in Scotland . do the Secretary of State agree that tackle child poverty will be a crucial part of the work of this Labour Government ? as part of the important work that she be do with the taskforce to develop a new child poverty strategy , will she come to my constituency — order . these be topical question , so please can we keep they short ? I have to try and get through the list to help other . my hon . friend have raise these issue with I before , and I will absolutely meet child , family and child poverty organisation from her constituency . we aim to visit every region and every devolve nation as part of that strategy , and I look forward to meet she and her constituent then . datum from Marie Curie suggest that 90 , 000 people die in poverty every year , many of they after a terminal diagnosis . even with the help of the special rule system , there have be report of terminally ill people face mound of red tape when try to claim benefit . be the Minister satisfied that the current 12 - month limit on special rule be sufficient , and have she assess how the current administrative burden on terminally ill people claim benefit can be reduce ? the hon . Lady raise an extremely important question , which I have discuss with a hospice and other organisation such as Marie Curie and Sue Ryder in my own constituency . I want to look at how the system can be make to work as quickly and swiftly as possible , particularly for people at this very difficult time in life , and I would be happy for the Social Security Minister and my office to contact she directly to get more information . research by Sense have find that none of the computer in jobcentre across Britain be equip with specialist assistive technology , and it have estimate that it would cost £ 5 million to ensure that every jobcentre have that specialist assistive technology . will the Minister commit to introduce a jobcentre assistive technology fund in order to aid disabled people in their quest to look for work ? my hon . friend be an absolute expert on this kind of inclusive change that we need to make to our employment support system so that we can help everybody , and I look forward to work with she on idea just like that when we bring forward our White Paper in the autumn . member of the AEAT pension scheme have collectively lose million of pound from their pension , despite be tell that they would be no less favourable follow the privatisation of their pension scheme in 1996 . the Public Accounts Committee find that they have receive inadequate information from the Government and lose money as a result . will the Minister provide a clear timescale for redress for AEAT pensioner in this unique case , as promise by a previous Pensions Minister ? I thank the hon . member for his question . I have look into this issue , which have a long and complex history , and I would be very willing to meet he to discuss it in more detail . the Secretary of State have today publish 31 research paper commission but hide by the previous Government , which among other thing provide valuable insight into the experience of disabled people apply for personal independence payment in order to live and work independently . why do the Minister think the last Government choose not to publish these finding ? my hon . Friend ask an extremely good question . the policy of the previous Government be to publish all such commission research report within 12 week of receive they . that policy be comply with until 2018 , when Ministers stop comply with it , so we have have to publish all these report today . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State ' s announcement be a vital first step in rebuild the trust in the Department that be so shattered by the culture of secrecy , obfuscation and cover - up by Conservative Ministers . in response to several hon . member , Ministers have speak about the complexity of the ombudsman ' s report on the WASPI campaign . while appreciate that , may I ask for a statement in principle that the Government will eventually offer significant compensation to the WASPI woman ? as I say previously , the ombudsman take six year to consider this complex case . we be look into it very seriously , but I can not make any announcement today . the right hon . Gentleman will have to wait for our announcement on this issue . the Government ' s propose youth guarantee will help to ensure that young people be either learn or earn . of course , the young person ' s guarantee be already a key commitment of the labour - run Welsh Government . can the Minister assure I and my Cardiff West constituent that this Government will learn from the work be do in Wales ? I assure my hon . friend that we will work with the Welsh Government , Welsh local authority and all our colleague across the United Kingdom to get the policy right for young people , who I believe have be fail over recent year . it be about time they have the future they deserve . with employer in Witham and across the country about to be whack with a barrage of high taxis , thank to this Government , how do the Government expect employment level to stay high ? how do they expect small business to be at the heart of any employment strategy that they claim to have ? under the previous Government , we have the high taxis in 70 year , and jobcentre to which only one in six employer ever go to recruit . we will transform our jobcentre into a new job and career service , so that people get the help they need , and so that employer can recruit the staff they desperately need . I welcome the Government ' s propose fraud Bill . can the Minister explain how it will claw back money from people who cheat the system , while also protect privacy ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s support for the propose fraud Bill . the level of fraud in the welfare system be absolutely unacceptable ; almost £ 10 billion be lose last year . increase use of datum will be essential to clamp down on both capital fraud and broad fraud . however , we will do that without share any information at all with bank and financial institution . I thank the Secretary of State for her personal commitment to transparency . far to the question ask by the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , will she share with the House how many thousand of people will die as a result of labour ' s choice to cut the winter fuel payment ? I be very happy to share the datum : there be 200 , 000 more pensioner live in poverty after 14 year of conservative government . I be also very happy to publish information show a 152 % increase in pension credit claim , thank to the big , bold campaign run by this Labour Government . my constituent want a fair and robust welfare system , but they have no truck with fraud . can the Secretary of State assure my constituent that she be do everything she can to crack down on fraud , and to make sure that those who genuinely need help get it ? my hon . friend be correct to raise this issue . as I say , we will not tolerate the current level of fraud in our welfare system . he will be pleased to note the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement of the forthcoming fraud , error and debt Bill , which will begin the necessary work to drive down fraud in the Department . can I share with the Secretary of State the plight of my constituent , who go without child maintenance payment for six month ? that happen not because of anything do wrong by she , or the pay parent , or the pay parent ' s employer , which process the direct deduction of earning order , but because the Child Maintenance Service misplace the payment . will the Secretary of State apologise for that mishap ? what plan do she have to rectify that deeply flawed organisation ? I be very sorry to hear of this case . I be not familiar with it , but I will look into it , if the hon . gentleman contact I with the detail . anniversary of 7 October Attacks : Middle East before I call the Prime Minister , I be sure that the House will wish to reflect for a moment on the fact that this be a solemn day . it mark the first anniversary of the terrorist attack on Israel . dozen of hostage be still in captivity , and the conflict have claim thousand of innocent civilian life . today we should come together to remember all those who have be affect . I call the Prime Minister . today we mark a year since the horrific attack on Israel by the terrorist of Hamas . it be the bloodiest day for the jewish people since the Holocaust — a day of sorrow , a day of grief . over 1 , 000 people be massacre , with hundred take hostage , in an attack bear of hatred , target not just at individual , but at jewish community , at their way of life and at the state of Israel — the symbol of jewish security to the world . fifteen british citizen be brutally slay that day . another have since die in captivity . our thought today be with the jewish people around the world , the jewish community here in the United Kingdom , and all those we lose a year ago . for so many , the pain and horror of that day be as acute today as it be a year ago . they live it every day . last week I meet the family of british hostage and those kill on 7 October . I sit with they as they tell I about their love one . I will never forget their word . Mandy Damari speak of her love for her daughter Emily . she say : " my personal clock stop at 10 : 24 on the 7th of October " , the moment when Emily send a desperate , unfinished message as Hamas attack her kibbutz . she be still hold captive today . we can hardly imagine what hostage like Emily be go through , or what the family be go through — the agony day after day . so I say again : the hostage must be return immediately and unconditionally . they will always be uppermost in our mind . I pay tribute again to the family for their incredible dignity and determination . today be also a day of grief for the wide region , as we look back on a year of conflict and suffering . the human toll among innocent civilian in Gaza be truly devastating . over 41 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , ten of thousand orphan and almost 2 million displace , face disease , starvation and desperation without proper healthcare or shelter . it be a live nightmare and it must end . we stand with all innocent victim in Israel , Gaza , the west bank , Lebanon and beyond , and we stand with all community here in the United Kingdom against hatred of Jews or Muslims , because any attack on a minority be an attack on our proud value of tolerance and respect , and we will not stand for it . with the middle east close to the brink , and the very real danger of a regional war , last week the iranian regime choose to strike Israel . the whole House will join I in utterly condemn this attack . we support Israel ' s right to defend herself against Iran ' s aggression in line with international law . let we be very clear : this be not a defensive action by Iran ; it be an act of aggression and a major escalation in response to the death of a terrorist leader . it expose once again Iran ' s malign role in the region . it help equip Hamas for the 7 October attack . it arm Hezbollah , which launch a year - long barrage of rocket at northern Israel , force 60 , 000 Israelis to flee their home , and support the Houthis , who mount direct attack on Israel and continue to attack international shipping . I know the whole House will join I in thank our brave servicemen and servicewoman , who have show their usual courage in counter this threat , but make no mistake : the region can not endure another year of this . civilian on all side have suffer too much . all side must now step back from the brink and find the courage of restraint . there be no military solution to these challenge , so we must renew our diplomatic effort . together with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , I have have discussion with the leader of Israel , Lebanon , Jordan , the Palestinian Authority , the G7 and the European Union , and make the case at the United Nations for political solution to end the fighting . in the week ahead , we will continue that work , focus on three area . the first be Lebanon , where our immediate priority be the safety of british citizen . our team be on the ground , help to get people out . we have already bring more than 430 people home on charter flight , and we stand ready to make additional evacuation effort as necessary . I again give this important message to british citizen still in Lebanon : you must leave now . we be also work to ease the humanitarian crisis in Lebanon — last week we provide £ 10 million of vital support , in addition to the £ 5 million we be already provide to unicef — but the situation can not go on . we will continue to lead call for an immediate ceasefire , and for the return to a political plan for Lebanon base on Security Council resolution 1701 , which require Hezbollah to withdraw north of the Litani river . they must stop fire rocket and end this now , so that people on both side of the border can return to their home . secondly , we must renew effort for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , but we can not simply wait for that to happen . we must do more now to provide relief to the civilian population . that be why we have restart aid to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . we be support field hospital , and the delivery of water , healthcare and treatment for malnourished child , but the ongoing restriction on aid be impossible to justify . Israel must open more crossing and allow lifesave aid to flow . crucially , Israel must provide a safe environment for aid worker . too many have be kill , include three british citizen . Israel must act now , so that , together with our ally , we can surge humanitarian support ahead of winter . thirdly , we must put in place solution for the long term , to break the relentless cycle of violence . the ultimate goal here be well understand : it must be a two - state solution . there be no other option that offer stability and security . we need to build a political route towards it , so that Israel be finally safe and secure , alongside the long - promise palestinian state . that require support for the Palestinian Authority to step into the vacuum in Gaza ; it require an urgent international effort to support reconstruction ; and it require guarantee for Israel ' s security . we will work with our ally and partner to that end , but the key to all this remain a ceasefire in Gaza now , the unconditional release of the hostage , and the unhindered flow of aid . that be the fundamental first step to change the trajectory of the region . nobody in this House can truly imagine what it feel like to cower under the body of their friend , hope a terrorist will not find they , mere minute after dance at a music festival . nobody in this House can truly imagine see their city , home , school , hospital and business obliterate , with their neighbour and family bury underneath . it be beyond our comprehension , and with that should come a humility . it be hard even to understand the full depth of this pain , but what we can do be remember . what we can do be respect and listen to the voice that reach out to we at these moment , and what we can do be use the power of diplomacy to try to find practical step that minimise the suffering on the ground and work towards that long - term solution , so that a year of such terrible and bloody conflict can never happen again . that be what we have do on the Labour Benches , it be what the whole House have do , and it be what this Government will continue to do . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement . today be the anniversary of 7 October . this modern pogrom — the bad loss of jewish life since the second world war — be a horrendous reminder of the antisemitism in our world and the existential threat that Israel face . over the past year , many of the hostage kidnap by Hamas on 7 October have be rape , sexually abuse , murder , and mutilate beyond recognition . today , a year on , many still remain hold by Hamas and other terrorist group . I think particularly today of the british citizen Emily Damari , who have endure a year in captivity . across this House , I know that we join in say , " bring they home . " the situation in the middle east be grave . too many innocent civilian life have be lose . it be right that this country continue to play its part in defend Israel against iranian attack , but we should not forget the base cause of all these event : Iran ' s refusal to accept Israel ' s right to exist , and its desire to destabilise the region through arm and fund its terrorist proxy — Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis . the current conflict in Lebanon be a result of Hezbollah ' s determination to use this territory to launch rocket attack on Israel . let I be clear : Israel have a right to defend itself , it have a right to eliminate the leadership of Hezbollah , and it have a right to restore security for its citizen . this country should support Israel in pursue those goal , but can the Prime Minister expand on what he say about what role the United Kingdom be play in provide humanitarian support to those lebanese citizen who have be displace because of this conflict ? I welcome his announcement on some financial support to that end . the medium - term question that we must help to address be what happen once the israeli operation have finish . I ask the Prime Minister to update the House on what step this country , along with our ally , be take to help to build up the capacity of the lebanese state so that Hezbollah can not simply re - establish itself in southern Lebanon . we must never forget that Hezbollah do not represent the interest of Lebanon or its citizen ; it represent those of its paymaster in Tehran . turn to the situation of british national in Lebanon , I know that the Government have rightly be urge they to leave for some time now , but it be clear that difficulty in obtain ticket on commercial flight mean that a number of our citizen be still there . I welcome the Government ' s chartering of plane to help british national to return home , and know very well the logistical challenge involve . I pay tribute to all the Foreign Office and other team who will be work hard to make sure that that happen . can the Prime Minister assure the House that any british national who wish to leave Lebanon will be able to do so on a Government - charter flight ? turn next to the Prime Minister ' s speech at the UN General Assembly , which he mention , I fully endorse his reaffirmation that the United Kingdom will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . event in the middle east , and indeed Ukraine , be another reminder that the world be increasingly become more dangerous . if we wish to be able to continue to deter our enemy , defend our value and stand up for our interest , we will need to invest more in our military . the Prime Minister and I have discuss previously my view that we should increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 , and in our previous exchange in this House he have say that a trajectory for future defence spending would be set out at the come fiscal event . I ask that he reconfirm his commitment to that timetable . on this sad anniversary , I finish by say that the United Kingdom stand with Israel against this terrorism today , tomorrow and always . I say to the jewish community here in Britain that I know that at moment like this , when the jewish people be under attack in their homeland , jewish people everywhere can feel less safe . I know that the Prime Minister will agree with I that , across this House , we will always stand against the evil of antisemitism . I thank the Leader of the Opposition for his word . on an occasion like this , it be important that we speak with one voice across the House , and I think the whole House will agree with he that we must bring the hostage home . they must be uppermost in our mind . the Leader of the Opposition ask about the assistance in Lebanon . humanitarian assistance be be provide — aid and money , as well as training , as he will know — and we be work towards the Security Council resolution . on evacuation , we will make sure that any british national have the assistance they need to come home . I repeat that now be the time to leave . if any british national require assistance , I ask they please to make contact with we so that we can provide it . in relation to defence spending , let I recommit to increase it to 2 . 5 % . we will set out our plan in due course , but the most important thing today be for this House to do as it be do : speak with one voice on the one - year anniversary of an awful terrorist attack . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs . on this anniversary , the House unite in its condemnation of the murder of more than 1 , 000 israeli citizen and make a united call for the release of 100 hostage . Parliament also stand behind a belief in the rule - base international order — a belief that all civilian life be equal and must be protect . today , we mark a year during which more than 41 , 000 Palestinians have be kill in Gaza , 742 people have be kill in the west bank and more than 2 , 000 people have be kill in Lebanon . will the Prime Minister confirm that all british action in the middle east will be guide by the principle of de - escalation , peace and diplomacy , and the protection of all civilian life ? I thank my right hon . friend for that question , particularly her word about all civilian life be equal and protect . I confirm that everything that we be do be aim at de - escalate across the region . it be on the brink , and it be important for all side to pull back from the brink . that be why we have be work so closely with our ally in the G7 on de - escalation , speak with one voice . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement . on the anniversary of the horrific attack in Israel , we remember the victim , the people take hostage and their family , and we stand with the whole jewish community . early this year , I visit Israel and Palestine , and see how both people be experience trauma . we must never forget the trauma of the hostage and their family . in Tel Aviv , I meet Itzik Horn , a father still pray for his two son , Yair and Eitan , to come home . we must urge all actor to take the step most likely to get the hostage home quickly and safely . the past year have see terrible violence in the middle east , a humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza , and an appalling spike in hate crime here in the UK . we must stand firm against antisemitism and Islamophobia , we must press for an immediate bilateral ceasefire to end the terrible cycle of violence and bring about last peace and security for both Israelis and Palestinians , and we must do all we can to prevent a regional war in the middle east . UK force rightly play their part in help Israel to neutralise Iran ' s outrageous attack , and I hope that the Government will now try to convince Israel that keep her citizen safe and secure be well achieve by restraint , not retaliation and the risk of a regional war . as we do that , let we take a tough stance on Iran and all her proxy , from Hezbollah to the Houthis . will the Prime Minister finally proscribe Iran ' s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? we be horrify by the new crisis unfolding in Lebanon . will the Government go far on humanitarian aid ? most importantly , we join the Prime Minister in call for the cessation of rocket fire , the protection of civilian , and an immediate bilateral ceasefire , just like the one that we so desperately need in Gaza . I thank the right hon . gentleman for those question . I absolutely agree with he in relation to the hostage family . when I sit with they , we often sit in silence because they could not find the word to describe what they be go through . I also agree with what he say about hate crime . the message and the messaging be very much de - escalation across the region . he be right that we need to deal with state threat , include the irgc . we be work at pace to identify further way to deal with such threat , include those from the irgc . More than 400 sanction designation against iranian organisation and individual be already in place , and we continue to look at that important issue . I associate myself with the remark of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in condemn that horrific attack one year ago . yesterday at church during bidding prayer we pray about the conflict in the middle east and elsewhere . my thought remain with those love one who be still displace a year on . sadly , the United Nations have report credible evidence of sexual violence against innocent civilian on both side of the conflict . no matter the intensity of the situation , there can be no justification for sexual violence , which leave victim traumatise for many year . what step be the Government take to raise that issue and ensure that innocent civilian across the middle east be protect from the horror of sexual violence ? my hon . friend raise an important point about sexual violence , which , as she rightly say , have absolutely no justification . along with other issue , we continue to raise any such allegation with our ally . I call the Father of the House . there be many different opinion on policy in the middle east , but do the Prime Minister agree that what must surely unite everyone in this House be our profound detestation of antisemitism in all its shape and force , as well as our profound love for the jewish people on their day of suffering , especially as many of those who be murder at the music festival and in the kibbutz be actively work for peace ? will he reflect that there be still many people — many jewish and arab people — who want a moderate solution , and that we should give they our support ? I agree wholeheartedly with the right hon . gentleman on antisemitism , and on our love for — and on stand with — the jewish people , both across the globe and here in the United Kingdom . many of they want nothing more than peace and security for themselves and their family , and we will continue to work with they . I agree with his remark and the sentiment behind they . I very much agree with my right hon . and learn Friend ' s comment about the need for all side to work towards a two - state solution . do he therefore understand the wide concern at the israeli Prime Minister say repeatedly in recent week that he do not support a two - state solution , either now or in the future ? do my right hon . and learn Friend understand the frustration and anger that that create among many Palestinians , particularly young one , and that it breed a climate in which hostility and violence be likely to increase rather than decrease ? what can he do to change the israeli Prime Minister ' s mind ? we have to be very clear that the two - state solution be the only viable long - term route through this conflict . Recognition have to be a question of when , not if . Israel have a right to be safe and secure — it be not — and we must have a viable palestinian state . however difficult that may seem at the moment , we must never lose sight of that be , in the end , the only political solution to this awful conflict . we be a year on from when 1 , 200 jewish people be systematically murder . those who be woman be rape and mutilate ; 254 be take hostage into Gaza , and 101 remain unaccounted for . I agree with the Prime Minister that we need to make sure the hostage be return immediately , but the first aspect of that be ensure that the International Committee of the Red Cross have access to all those hostage in order to assess their state of health and , indeed , whether they be still alive . will the Prime Minister press for that , to make sure that we know how many be still alive and can be return to their family ? for those who have sadly be murder , at least their family will know what have happen to they . yes , that be very important . when spend any time with the family , you get a real sense of the agony they be go through , which be make even bad by the fact that they do not have any meaningful information about their love one . I agree with the hon . gentleman : that be an essential step to at least reduce some of the agony . we in my constituency stand today with our neighbour Sharone in say the name of her father , Oded Lifschitz , a proud peace activist who have be hold by Hamas for over a year now . we stand with our palestinian neighbour who be able to escape from Gaza , who now fear for their relative and what harm may befall they . we stand with our neighbour try to get out of Lebanon , where he be try to support local child to learn . we reject the lazy stereotype in this conflict that we have to pick a side . we pick peace , and we simply ask the Prime Minister to do and show the same , so what reassurance can my right hon . and learn Friend give I and my constituent today that everything that the British have — in fighting for the rule of law , in diplomacy , and even in our work on arm sale — will be dedicate towards peace and resolution for the innocent civilian in these region ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , which be a reminder of the impact that the conflict be have on so many of our community here in the United Kingdom . we be absolutely work with our ally on de - escalate across the region . that require Iran to take responsibility and be hold accountable for what it be do , which be why in my view , it be important for the G7 to speak so powerfully together with a co - ordinate and collaborative approach . today be a devastating and sobering day for those who be suffer the pain of grief — it feel that the claw be be run over those wound again . we have now see escalation in the region , something that this House warn about for month before this point . it be clear now than ever that when the ember finally die down and we can start to rebuild , the palestinian question must be the no . 1 priority on the Prime Minister ' s list and those of other world leader — not because it be the right thing to do , but because it be a security concern that we must address if we want a safe world . do he agree that we now need to show unprecedented level of leadership ? what be he do personally to add to that ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question — as ever , she speak powerfully on this issue . I completely agree that the only way through in the long term be the two - state solution . to answer her question directly , we be work non - stop with our ally on that question , answer " what happen next ? " and never lose sight of the fact that the two - state solution be the only way to long - last peace . we will continue in those effort , which I know have the support of the House . it be so important that we continue to do so , and we will . the Prime Minister rightly say we need a ceasefire now , but after a year and over 45 , 000 death , what more can he do to achieve that ceasefire ? while the violence in the region continue , will he ask the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary to look sympathetically at request for evacuation from dependant and close relative of UK citizen ? on the question of a ceasefire , we be continue to work with ally to bring that ceasefire about and to co - ordinate our effort . I recognise that diplomacy be sometimes slow , but it be in the end the only way to bring about that ceasefire , and we will continue with it . in relation to british citizen in Lebanon , we do have a plan in place . if anybody across the House have any detail of our citizen who need further assistance , I would genuinely be pleased if they pass they to I , so we can action that straightaway . on the anniversary of the terrorist attack last year , may I echo the sentiment of the Prime Minister in condemn Hamas , in support our jewish community and , of course , in call for the release of all the hostage ? I share his concern about the malign influence of Iran . in that regard , can he confirm to the House that there will be no british involvement — be that personnel , facility or airbase — in any israeli response to its abhorrent attack last week ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . as he will understand , I will not go into detail on the Floor of the House as to our capability , but he will know that the involvement so far — for example , in relation to the attack in April — relate to Israel ' s self - defence , when missile be rain in on Israel . that be the support that we do provide and would always be prepare to provide . today , as we remember all those kill in the 7 October Hamas attack and all those kill day after day in Israel ' s war on Gaza and now Lebanon , the case for peace , the preservation of human life and the protection of human life have never be more urgent and compelling . an immediate ceasefire be desperately need to stop all the killing , end the war crime , free the hostage and get aid into Gaza . however , it be clear that Israel ' s right - wing political leader will keep reject ceasefire and keep violate international law without strong international pressure . to get israeli leader to back a ceasefire , do we not need to see tough action , include an end to all arm sale , as recent international court ruling demand ? I completely agree that we need an immediate ceasefire . that be what we be work for and what the US be lead on . I do not agree with a complete ban on arm sale . that would include a ban on arm be use for defensive purpose . look at the attack of only a few day ago by Iran , I think the House will understand my position on this and the position of many across the House . the Prime Minister have rightly speak about the significance of diplomacy right now , and I think the entire House would agree that , across the region itself , leader must come together . what discussion have the Prime Minister have with Gulf Co - operation Council leader about the behaviour — the aggressive behaviour — of their neighbour Iran , and what role they can play in de - escalation and prevent Iran from far escalate this terrible conflict ? I thank the right hon . member for that question . this be a really important issue . we have have numerous discussion with our colleague and with leader , and I do think there be an important role that can be play and pressure that can be apply through those discussion . we will continue to do so , so I thank she for her question . among those kill in the horror of 7 October be child , with a number still hold hostage to this day . in Gaza since then , there be a grisly new acronym — WCNSF : wound child , no survive family — to add to the child death toll , which be now rise in Lebanon as well . will my right hon . and learn Friend press for the protection of child in advocate for a ceasefire and in his humanitarian effort , and do he agree that no parent should ever have to bury their child ? I absolutely agree with that , whether it be child take as hostage — it hardly seem possible to say that sentence without recoil — or those orphan in Gaza , as my hon . friend rightly suggest . I appreciate that it be difficult to get into the mind of a theocratic regime such as that of the ayatollah in Iran , but to what extent have the Government be able to establish whether a principal motivation for what happen on 7 October be the desire of the iranian regime to prevent a rapprochement between Israel and Saudi Arabia , its great rival ? Iran bear huge responsibility across the region , both in its assistance in relation to the 7 October attack and through the other action that it be support in the region . that be why we have be clear in our positioning on Iran , and clear about the responsibility that Iran bear in relation to those awful incident . on the anniversary of the horrific 7 October attack , I again repeat the call for the immediate release of all hostage . in light of Israel ' s genocidal assault in Gaza , the violence in the west bank and the invasion of Lebanon , do the Prime Minister believe that Israel ' s right to self - defence justify a death toll that , accord to research by US medical professional who have work in Gaza , have now surpass 118 , 000 , as well as the 2 , 000 people kill in Lebanon ? will he do what be morally and legally right and end the Government ' s complicity in war crime by ban all arm sale to Israel , include the F - 35 fighter jet , and not just 30 licence — yes or no ? no , but it be a really serious point . ban all sale would mean none for defensive purpose — F - 35 fighter jet . it would mean none for defensive purpose . on the anniversary of 7 October and day after a huge attack by Iran into Israel , that would be the wrong position for this Government and I will not take it . the Prime Minister have rightly point out that the conflict in the middle east have be manipulate and sponsor by the iranian regime . we should stand by Israel , which be bear the burden , take the risk and stand up to world opinion in take on Iran and its proxy terrorist group . what part can our Government play in put pressure on the iranian regime , and why be it that the revolutionary guard who be sponsor much of this terrorism can still operate freely in London ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that we must stand by Israel and be absolutely clear about Israel ' s right to defend herself , particularly at this time of escalation by Iran . on the iranian regime , we have to be really clear that we stand with Israel and clear in condemn Iran , and we have to do that with our ally with one voice , so that the message be hear very powerfully . may I associate myself with the condemnation of the atrocity commit by Hamas a year ago ? that say , there be a grow humanitarian crisis in Gaza , and the restriction on aid be unacceptable . what more can the international community do to achieve the free movement of aid into Gaza ? I address that in my statement : we need to get more humanitarian aid in ; it be desperately need , and have be need for a very long time . that be why we continue to press for that aid to go in , and for the protection to go in for those who will be deliver it once the aid get into Gaza , as be desperately need . since the barbaric attack on 7 October , we have see an explosion in antisemitism and extremism on the street of our own country . only on Saturday , we see people flagrantly valorise Hezbollah in London . we must root out those who despise our country and our value . what will the Prime Minister do to revoke the visa , where appropriate , of those in the UK who be conduct themselves in this manner , to encourage the police to enforce our exist law without fear or favour , and to far ban and proscribe organisation such as the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps which do not support the UK , our value , and the way we wish to conduct ourselves in the world ? we be proud of the democratic right to protest in this country , but support a proscribe terrorist group be unacceptable , and we need to be very clear about that and give the police our full support in take the action they need to take in relation to that , wherever it be in the United Kingdom . as we mark the anniversary of the horrific Hamas attack , the subsequent colossal death and destruction and the ensue escalation in the region , we should say for anybody in any doubt in the country that Iran be no friend of ours . indeed , it be dislike by many of its neighbouring arab nation for its destabilising activity in the region . it be abundantly clear to many of we that as soon Iran come to the aid of its proxy Hezbollah , Israel ' s ally would come to its aid to protect it from iranian missile . however , it be extremely frustrating that Prime Minister Netanyahu continue to ignore the international community and the UN Security Council resolution . our own Prime Minister be one of the first to call for an immediate ceasefire between Lebanon and Israel , and this UK Parliament vote eight month ago for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . how exactly will the UK Government help to bring all side to the negotiating table and secure peace ? my hon . friend ' s comment about Iran be absolutely right . we must stand with Israel in the face of the attack , wherever they come from and wherever they be sponsor . in direct answer to his question , we be work with our ally on de - escalation . we be work with the US in particular on its plan for a ceasefire , because it be only through a ceasefire that we can create the space for the hostage to be safely release , for the aid to get into the region and for a foot in the door for a political two - state solution , which be the only way to last peace . the Prime Minister speak rightly of the fact that we can barely imagine the pain of the israeli family and those in Gaza affect over the past year since that Hamas atrocity , but it be also a pain feel acutely in our own community , by our jewish community and by our muslim community . we have have 5 , 000 antisemitic attack in this country since that atrocity — a record number — so what will the Prime Minister do to reassure the jewish and muslim community and to work with the Community Security Trust and tell MAMA to strengthen their bond ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . we have up the support to community as a result of the dreadful rise in hate crime in all its manifestation in the past year or so , and we will continue to do so . I know we will have the support of the House in do so . today be a day of mourning for all those who lose family member on 7 October and those hostage in the tunnel lose since then , and for all those civilian in Gaza , the west bank and now in Lebanon . like the Prime Minister , I have be meet hostage family all this past year . the only time hostage get release be when there be a hostage - prisoner deal on 22 November last year and some 150 prisoner and 50 hostage be release . have the Prime Ministers speak to the israeli Government about another deal to allow the hostage to be release through swap they with political prisoner hold in israeli jail ? I accept my hon . friend ' s point that it be through a cessation of hostility that the space can be create for the release of hostage . yes , of course we talk to leader , include in Israel , the whole time about how that can be bring about . it be the central focus of all our discussion with Israel and with our ally . it be vital that today and every day we remember every life lose at the hand of Hamas a year ago and every life lose in captivity since , and that we renew our call for the release of every hostage . while I totally agree with the Prime Minister when he say that Israel must have that right to defend herself , some of the decision he have take have lead to a feeling that the Government have step back their support for Israel , not least in the restoration of funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . do the Prime Minister regret that , and will he revisit that decision , so that action marry up with word ? no , there have be no step back of support for Israel . we have be absolutely robust in that support . I have express it many time in different place , include to the Prime Minister of Israel . we will continue to support Israel and we will continue to support Israel ' s right to defend herself . the House be at its good when it speak with once voice . it have be a year of profound suffering , darkness and trauma . ten of thousand of innocent people have be kill and displace , yet the world have learn nothing . the prospect of a two - state solution be a distant dream and the odd on all - out war in the middle east be grow by the day . the unimaginable devastation have to stop ; the only hope be a diplomatic solution . will the Prime Minister assure I that the Government be do everything in their power to bring about an immediate and permanent ceasefire across the region ? yes , and we be not do it alone . we be work with our ally in relation to it — last week , I speak to G7 ally about it , and we speak constantly to the US about it — because we need to de - escalate across the region . we have see escalation in recent day and week , and all side need to pull back from the brink . on behalf of the Green party , I associate myself with the remark make by the Prime Minister and other in the House in remembrance of all those who lose their life and be take hostage in the horrific terrorist attack on 7 October last year . one of those be Hayim Katsman , who be murder by Hamas in Kibbutz Holit . his brother Noy have his word include in a collection of speech and eulogy publish today by stand together . Noy say this of Hayim : " I have no doubt that even in the face of Hamas ' people that murder he , in the face of their extreme right wing belief , he would still call out against killing and violence of innocent people . here , too , he would be empathetic to pain and oppression . " those be powerful word . in that spirit , I express my continued and deep concern at the disproportionate response of Israel to the attack on 7 October and the extent to which that have perpetuate pain , oppression and the killing of innocent people . in recent day , that response have result in an escalation of deadly violence . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s word about commitment to de - escalation . do he agree that an urgent ceasefire both between Israel and Hezbollah and in Gaza be essential to resolve the conflict ? the hon . member read out some powerful word , which will have be hear across the House . yes , de - escalation be absolutely need at the moment as the region stand on the brink . Mr Speaker , may I associate myself with your word and those of the Prime Minister in open his statement ? in any time of conflict , our focus must be on two thing : de - escalation and peace ; and the plight of the civilian population , whether they be those hostage kidnap on 7 October , those in Lebanon now shelter in the street or those in Gaza who seek to find health facility to treat their love one and themselves when they suffer from attack by Israel . what more can we do to support the health service in Lebanon , which be now on its knee and really need our support if it be to help the people of Lebanon ? we do need to help and assist with the health service in Lebanon — along with the other humanitarian support and the support for training and other matter that we be put in , it be so important that we do that . we be in constant contact with the lebanese authority in relation to that . many of we have be fortunate enough to see the good work that UNRWA have do on the ground over many year , but , to be effective , an aid delivery vehicle need to be rigorously impartial . give that , will the Government treat UNRWA with caution and carefully , and remember that other aid delivery agency be available ? we of course have to be careful to ensure that any agency absolutely complie with international law and , where there be any allegation , we must ensure that they be properly investigate and any wrongdoing be root out . we do have to provide , or help to provide , aid across the region , but that be caveate by the first part of my statement in relation to the point that the right hon . Gentleman rightly raise . I wish to put on the record my sorrow at the appallingly violent event of 7 October one year ago in southern Israel , and at all the day of violence we have witness since . since the House last meet , the forced displacement of almost 2 million resident of Gaza by Israel ' s military action have be compound by a further half a million people forcibly displace in Lebanon , again by israeli military action . do the Prime Minister share the concern of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , Filippo Grandi , that in destroy civilian infrastructure , kill civilian and impact humanitarian operation , the israeli invasion be a breach of international law ? what further step will the Prime Minister take to enforce a ceasefire ? I be not go to accept invitation to agree with other people ' s assessment . I will make my own . I have be absolutely clear that Israel have the right to defend herself in accordance with international law . the displacement be a very serious issue across the region . very many people have be displace and many of they simply want to go home . that include Israelis who have be displace from their home as well . that be why we need to de - escalate : to ensure that those displace can return back and live safely in their own community . in just 15 month , Iran will be free of many of the restriction under the joint comprehensive plan of action on its production of centrifuge and its uranium enrichment . give the new nexus of evil of North Korea , Iran and Russia on nuclear technology transfer , do the Prime Minister believe the JCPOA be still fit for purpose ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a really important point in relation to the nuclear ambition that we absolutely have to be alive to . we must ensure that Iran can not possibly get weapon . the sanction , and the regime around they , must be gear towards that central issue . I extend my heartfelt sympathy to the family who lose love one in the terror attack a year ago , as well as to those who have love one that be hold in captivity at the moment . I would also like to do the same for ordinary palestinian civilian who have lose love one in the violence of the past year . it be quite clear that , give the heighten tension across the region , an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , the west bank and Lebanon be not possible . the Prime Minister have talk about a road map ; will he share with we what the step be towards a peace process and the immediate ceasefire that be desperately need in the region ? I accept that an immediate ceasefire be difficult ; I do not accept that it be impossible . the US and Qatar be work hard on this , and they have our full support in the action they be take . the reason why the US be lead on this be that it well understand the importance of a ceasefire to create the space for all the other relief that need to be provide and , of course , for the hostage to be release . the House know that when event unfold abroad they often reverberate on our street here at home . despite the trauma of the last 12 month , I be incredibly proud that rabbi , imam and other religious leader in St Albans have work hand in glove to make a bold statement call " five principle for dialogue : why Jews and Muslims refuse to hate each other " . they have take that statement into our primary school , secondary school and community forum . it have have a profound effect in my community . be the relevant Government Department actively seek out example of such initiative to build or , where necessary , rebuild interfaith dialogue and community cohesion across the United Kingdom ? yes , because that joint work be really important . some of the interfaith work do before 7 October do not have the resilience that many of we think and hope it would have . rebuild it be hard but it should be support wherever it take place . I be interested to hear the particular example that the hon . Lady refer to . I thank the Prime Minister for his comment . my thought and prayer be with all those affect by the violence and war over the past year . human right and international law apply equally and without favour . all life matter — palestinian , israeli and lebanese . when breach of international law be commit , they should be condemn equally . do the Prime Minister agree that a ceasefire in Gaza be the good way to de - escalate violence ? will he give assurance that this Government will do all they can to support diplomatic measure and keep an open review of arm sale ? do he agree that we must , at all cost , avoid get involve in a middle eastern war that could have catastrophic consequence both here and abroad ? we be work constantly with our ally to de - escalate the situation , to hold those responsible to account and to ensure that we bring about the much seek - after peace that all community want . as well as the terrible loss of life of israeli , palestinian and lebanese citizen , a shocking number of journalist have be kill or wound while cover event in the middle east . will the Prime Minister pay tribute to the courage of journalist who be risk their life daily simply to do their job ? will he re - emphasise the importance of protect and respect all medium worker who be cover conflict ? yes and yes . it be a very important point . journalist and those work in the medium be risk their life to ensure that the rest of we have information about what be happen on the ground . too many have lose their life , and we must respect that and pay tribute to the really important work that they do . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise a really important issue . today be a day for sombre remembrance of the suffering on all side , but if the threaten war against Iran take place , we will need to revisit that discussion in this Chamber . I be pleased that the Prime Minister have rightly demonstrate our concern about the suffering on all side , and particularly mention the suffering of child . when the Ukraine war start , we set up the scheme to evacuate child who be seriously injure to come here for treatment . in January I raise the prospect of that scheme be introduce for palestinian child and other . I raise it again in May . in July I write to my right hon . friend , the Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary . I write again in August , and again in September . there do not seem to be any progress on develop such a scheme , despite the willingness of clinician here . could the Prime Minister look at how we can achieve progress ? the right hon . member be right to emphasise the impact that this have on child in particular . we have special responsibility to child in any conflict . the first step to protect child be to create the condition for a ceasefire and de - escalate , which be why , work with our ally , we be spend so much time on that de - escalation and find a route to a ceasefire . in February I stand in the wreckage of some of the kibbutzim where the atrocity take place on 7 October . I be strike by the family we meet and their desire for peace rather than revenge . since then , I be afraid to say that I have hear Minister after Minister at the Dispatch Box mouth the word of peace and de - escalation , yet the situation have get bad and bad . how many more people will have to die before we realise that talking be not enough , and we have to take action with our partner to compel a ceasefire ? what happen at the Dispatch Box be the reporting back of the action we be take elsewhere — that be under this Government and under the last government — and when not at the Dispatch Box , we be work with our ally to bring about a ceasefire . I accept it be difficult ; I accept it have not yet happen . I refuse to give up on the idea that , through diplomacy , we can reach that de - escalation and ceasefire . we will continue to work with our ally to do so . what we have try to do , particularly in recent week , be co - ordinate with our ally so we speak and take action in one co - ordinate way . that , for I , be more powerful than each nation take action separately . I associate myself with the word of hon . and right hon . member today , and add my thought to the family and the hostage who be take a year ago . I too hope for their safe return . late figure suggest that approximately 6 , 000 lebanese national be in the UK with a temporary right to remain . lebanese national in Edinburgh have recount to I their fear about return home and their concern about the inevitable humanitarian crisis that will follow should the conflict continue . will the Government commit to look at option to ensure no lebanese national currently in the UK be force to return to Lebanon during the current conflict ? yes , I can give that assurance . it be very important . we need to get british national who be in Lebanon out of Lebanon as quickly and safely as possible , and we certainly should not be return people back to the conflict zone while the conflict be go on . both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary deliver important statement at the UN last month , emphasise the importance of uphold both the principle and the purpose of the UN charter as a foundation for the rule - base international order . the Prime Minister rightly state today that a political settlement be the only route to a last peace and stability in the region . in work towards that aim , what consideration be the Government give to official recognition of palestinian statehood ? the question of recognition be a question of when , not if . [ interruption . ] well , at the point of great impact . we need a two - state solution . we need to work with our ally towards that end . we will continue to do so , because this conflict will not de - escalate until there be a political route through . it be with profound sadness that we take stock of the past year in which 1 , 200 Israelis be kill by Hamas ' s horrific attack and over 41 , 000 Palestinians and thousand in Lebanon have be kill by the israeli military onslaught . do the Prime Minister agree with I that all life should be cherish — israeli , palestinian and lebanese — and that nothing can ever justify the deliberate targeting of civilian and civilian infrastructure ? will he join I in call for a ceasefire and accountability in the region of the middle east ? I certainly agree that all life should be cherish , and I think that be the position across the House . as I have say , de - escalation and a ceasefire be the only way forward , which be why we be work so hard on it . while I welcome the Prime Minister ' s call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , there be so much more he can do to bring that about . as South Africa ' s Foreign Minister say , the decision to stop the fighting in Gaza be in the hand of those who supply Israel with weapon . he know that international law do not differentiate between offensive weapon and defensive weapon , so why do he continue to license 90 % of weapon sale to Israel when there be ample proof that UK weapon be still be use to prolong this catastrophe ? for the reason I have twice state . if the sale of weapon for defensive use by Israel be ban , that be a position I could not countenance a year after 7 October . it be not a position I could countenance in the face of attack by Iran . the whole House see the number of missile come over into Israel only the other day . the idea that we could say we support Israel ' s right to defend herself , and at the same time deprive she of the mean to do so , be so wholly inconsistent that it will never be my position . the scale of the devastation that we have see in the middle east be appal . in recent week , 127 innocent child have be kill in Lebanon . the scale of death be appal , and the potential for further escalation be terrifying . can the Prime Minister tell the House how he be work with his fellow world leader to push for de - escalation and a peaceful settlement ? we be work constantly with our colleague and ally , whether in the G7 or bilaterally . we have numerous daily contact to bring about the de - escalation that be so desperately need . Hezbollah begin its late assault on Israel on 8 October , the day after Hamas ' s attack on Israel . the Iran - back terror group have fire more than 12 , 000 rocket towards Israel over the past year , but the international community call for a ceasefire only after Israel have respond . the Prime Minister have say that he be committed to stand by Israel against the threat that it face , but will he deliver on his commitment to proscribe Iran ' s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? I give an answer early on the issue of the irgc . we do need to address state threat ; we be look into how we can do that , and will continue to do so . as the Prime Minister have say , the horrific Hamas attack a year ago inflict unbearable pain and loss on israeli civilian , and we continue to condemn those attack in the strong term . I remember clearly , too , the fear that my then colleague in Gaza , palestinian aid worker , feel as bomb begin drop on they that night . the healthcare system in Gaza be now all but destroy , and accord to the United Nations there have be 36 recent attack on healthcare facility in Lebanon . israeli force be also now use fighter jet to bomb refugee camp in the west bank . do the Prime Minister agree that this be unacceptable ? as he will know , the UK Government be the United Nations Security Council lead on the protection of civilian . next month , when the UK have the United Nations Security Council presidency , will he ensure that there be a focus on their protection ? my hon . friend speak with great experience . yes , we need aid to get into the region , and we need to protect aid worker , because that be the only way in which the aid can get to where it be need . today we mark that terrible anniversary of the big slaughter of Jews since the second world war . we must also note that since that day , more than 60 , 000 Israelis have be displace in northern Israel by the action of Hezbollah . the israeli Government have have no choice but to mobilise the Israel Defence Forces , and any israeli citizen can have to be involve in that . I be proud of the fact that yesterday Leeds hold a multi - faith remembrance service in Millennium Square , attend by more than 1 , 000 people . do the Prime Minister agree that that be in mark contrast to the individual who drive the jewish chaplain of Leeds into hiding because , as an israeli citizen , he have to serve as a member of the IDF ? be that not an act of pure hatred and antisemitism ? we must hunt down that hatred wherever we see it , and the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise it and to call it out . we must focus on the multi - faith work to which he refer : I think that , across the House , we want to see more of it . he be also right about the displacement in northern Israel . many family simply want to return to their home , on both side of the border , and we must never forget the impact that it have on they . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement on what be a sombre and sobering day as we reflect on the past year — the atrocity of 7 October last year , and , of course , the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and now in Lebanon . in my constituency be community who have link with Israel , with Gaza , with Palestine and also with Lebanon , and they raise with I regularly the need for an immediate ceasefire . do the Prime Minister recognise that that ceasefire be a critical step towards what , in the end , can be the only solution : a political solution for the region ? yes , and that be why we be work with ally , include the United States , on seek to bring it about . there have be 1 , 200 butcher and more than 250 hostage take , more than 100 of whom be still there , include Emily Damari , a 28 - year - old british citizen . will the Prime Minister recommit himself today to do whatever it take — to leave no stone unturned — in ensure that she be return to her family , and that , if necessary , british asset be use to help to extract she ? yes , absolutely ; that be the commitment I give to her mother and the other family I meet last week , and on various other occasion before that . I have sit with her mother and see at first hand the utter agony that she be go through , as any parent would in those circumstance . I give she that commitment and I repeat it here . may I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and associate myself with the clear call for unimpeded access to aid , an immediate ceasefire and an immediate return of the hostage ? since the heinous terrorist attack one year ago , we have see here at home a consequential increase in crime of hate , antisemitism and other form of hatred . I know his commitment to tackle the scourge of such hatred — I have see it up close — so will he assure I that his Government will continue to challenge all such form of hatred , both here and abroad ? yes , absolutely ; we can and we must . across the House , we all know the impact of hate crime , and we have all be horrify by the increase over the last 12 month . we have a duty and a responsibility to do everything we can to reduce it , and we will work with other to do so . may I , too , join the Prime Minister in offer my condolence to the family of all those who have be kill and those who continue to be kill ? I also join the Prime Minister in relation to the release of hostage — all hostage , include the child who be hold in israeli detention centre without charge and without any legal representation . give what he say in relation to self - defence , which be a moot point , be he state to the House that all offensive weapon be ban and that only defensive weapon be be supply ? the hon . Gentleman will well know the legal framework . we have domestic legislation in place that be pass and apply by successive government , and we have international obligation . we have take our decision in accordance with that legislation , as the House would expect , and we have publish a summary of our reason for do so , for the House to examine . may I , too , express my heartfelt sympathy and condolence to all those affect by the terrorist attack on 7 October ? I thank the Prime Minister for his statement today . do he agree that the sharp rise in antisemitism that we have see since 7 October — it have now reach the high level ever record in the UK — be a stain on our democracy ? may I ask he to give reassurance to jewish community across the UK that his Government be do everything they can to ensure their security and safety , and to tackle the scourge of antisemitism ? let I give that reassurance . I think we be all shock by the sharp rise in antisemitism , and we need to work with all community to bring down hate crime , whichever community it be aim at — whether it be the jewish community , the muslim community or any other community . I thank the Prime Minister for clarify the Government ' s position on Israel ' s right to defend itself . will he and the Home Secretary clarify to the House what step be be take to tackle violent disorder and antisemitism in London ? many member of the british jewish community here in London feel under threat , and this weekend we see violent protest . what will the Government do to tackle that and to make our british jewish community feel safe again ? we have to support the right of freedom of protest but , at the same time , be absolutely clear that support for terrorist organisation be not to be tolerate . we will work with the police and other law enforcement agency to ensure that we tackle it and stand very firm on it . today , as at so many time in the history of the jewish people , we be bind in grief and mourning . will the Prime Minister assure the jewish community that we be not alone in that grief , and will he take this opportunity to join I in praise the dignity , courage and love show by the family and friend of the hostage in their effort to bring they home ? let I give that assurance that they be not alone , and let I pay tribute again to the family . it be incredibly move to spend any time with they and to hear at first hand what they be go through . as I have say to they every time I have meet they , the impact that this have on anybody listen to they , and the impact it have on I , be profound . I join the Prime Minister and the House in offer my condolence to the family of all those israeli civilian kill on 7 October , and of all innocent civilian — israeli , palestinian , lebanese or any other — kill over the last 12 month . over the last 12 month , more than 950 palestinian bloodline have be wipe off the face of the earth — no family member remain from those generation . over 1 , 000 family have only one sole survivor remain living today . what message do the Prime Minister have for the British Palestinians and the survive Palestinians in the affected region , and what be he do to protect they from the same fate as the 42 , 000 and counting ? there have be far too much bloodshed and killing , and far too many child orphan . I give my assurance that we will do everything we can , and we be do everything we can , to de - escalate and to bring about a ceasefire to allow much - need aid to go in and hostage to come out , but I absolutely understand the strength of the point that the hon . member put to I . the Prime Minister say that I stand with Israel . I stand with peace ; I stand with the israeli people and with the Palestinians and the Lebanese equally . this be not mere semantic . I applaud the involvement of the UK military in protect Israelis at the weekend , but where be the equivalent for the people of Gaza , Beirut and elsewhere ? it be in the work that we be do to bring about de - escalation and a ceasefire , because that be the only route through . that be why we be work with our ally so closely on those issue and will continue to do so . the tragedy of the death a year ago have now be compound by ten of thousand more death in Gaza , the west bank and Lebanon . Gaza be now reduce to a place of rubble , famine , thirst and premature death , and lot of child look for their family . the bomb that have rain down on Gaza and other place be in part supply by this country . the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court have both give strong opinion on the situation there . will the Prime Minister revisit the whole situation of the sale of british arm that be be use to bomb Gaza and kill wholly innocent palestinian civilian ? we have set out our position : domestic law be clear , international law be clear , and we have take our decision and put a summary of that before the House . if we in this House , at this distance , can feel the pain of that dastardly attack a year ago , we can but imagine its indelible imprint on the people of Israel and on jewish folk across the world . what be the Prime Minister ' s view of the fact that our national broadcaster , the BBC , refuse to call those who perpetrate this heinous terrorist attack " terrorist " , and likewise now with Hezbollah ? what be the Government ' s position on that and what representation have they make ? the Government ' s position be that Hamas and Hezbollah be terrorist organisation . we stand very firm on that and rightly call they what they be . I join the Prime Minister in condemn the iranian ballistic missile attack on Israel last Tuesday , and I support the role of UK armed force in defeat it . back in January , the Prime Minister say that parliamentary approval of military action be need only when deploy troop . we do not know how Israel will respond to the iranian attack , and the Government could find themselves ask to contribute at short notice . can the Prime Minister set out what he mean when he say that a parliamentary debate and vote would happen only when deploy troop ? the whole House condemn Iran ' s attack of a few day ago — we all see the impact — and the whole House will understand that there will be occasion when it be important for a Government to act without first come to this House . like other , I recently have the sobering experience of meet some of the hostage family . one person describe how his brother have see his wife , the mother of their new baby , murder before his eye , just before he be take by Hamas . despite their ordeal , the hostage family I meet show a desire for peace and reconciliation that I find utterly breathtaking and humbling , and it give I hope . do the Prime Minister agree that the release of the hostage be not only the right thing to do , in and of itself — of course , it be — but a major key to end the conflict ? any ceasefire without the release of the hostage be , de facto , not a ceasefire . I agree , which be why we must continue to press for the immediate and unconditional release of the hostage . I , too , have be strike by the incredible resilience of the family . it be humble to listen and comprehend what they be go through while they , none the less , insist that there have to be a peaceful way forward for all concerned . I thank the Prime Minister for his strong statement , which this House support — well do . in the light of recent event , it have become clear that Israel ' s right to defend itself , though verbally support , be effectively condemn when it take action . ever mindful of the 1 , 200 israeli citizen who be so brutally murder a year ago , will the Prime Minister condemn the disgraceful antisemitic demonstration that take place on the street of London on Saturday ? will he ensure that all military aid be make available to Israel against the murderous intention of Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis and Iran ? I condemn antisemitism , wherever and whenever it happen . we must stand together across this House to stamp it out . British Indian Ocean Territory : negotiation before we come to the next statement , I remind the government that I understand , and the whole House understand , that the business of the Government continue during recess and that Ministers will always need to respond to event in the UK and around the world . however , it be frustrating for hon . member on both side of the House when major plan announcement be schedule during period when the House be not sit , particularly towards the end of recess . although I appreciate the Government inform I directly of the development on some of these issue , that do not substitute for inform the House . if announcement make towards the end of last week have be hold over until after the weekend , hon . member would have have the first opportunity to question the Secretary of State , rather than learn about it through the medium . minister should come to the House to announce their policy in the first instance , even if that mean wait a few day . the excuse that there be an election elsewhere in the world be not my concern , because it be the elect member on both side of this House whom I represent . Mr Speaker , I be very grateful for your instruction at the beginning of this statement . with permission , I will make a statement on the conclusion of negotiation on the exercise of sovereignty over the British Indian Ocean Territory . [ interruption . ] order . I have do the bidding . I do not need other to come in on the back of it . on Thursday 3 October , my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister and Mauritian Prime Minister Jugnauth make an historic announcement : after two year of negotiation and decade of disagreement , the United Kingdom and Mauritius have reach a political agreement on the future of the British Indian Ocean Territory . the treaty be neither sign nor ratify , but I want to update the House on the conclusion of formal negotiation at the early opportunity . member will appreciate the context . since its creation , the territory and the joint UK - US military base on Diego Garcia have have a contested existence . [ interruption . ] in recent year , the threat have rise significantly . when we come into office , the status quo be clearly not sustainable . [ interruption . ] a bind judgment against the UK seem inevitable , and it be just a matter of time before our only choice would have be abandon the base altogether or break international law . not true . order . you will all be able to question the Secretary of State , so please just wait for that moment . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . you have be here long enough to know that point of order do not come at this stage . good try , but it be not work . if member oppose the deal , which of the alternative do they prefer ? do this deal on our term be the sole way to maintain the full and effective operation of the base into the future . that be why , in November 2022 , the then Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , initiate sovereignty negotiation . it be also why my predecessor , Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton , ultimately continue with those negotiation . under the previous Government , there be 11 round of negotiation , the last one hold just week before the general election be call . in July , this Government inherit unfinished business . the threat be real , and inaction be not a strategy . inaction pose several acute risk to the United Kingdom . first , it threaten the UK - US base . from counter malign iranian activity in the middle east to ensure a free and open Indo - Pacific , the base be critical for our national security . without surety of tenure , no base can operate effectively or truly deter our enemy . critical investment decision be already be delay . secondly , inaction impact on our relationship with the United States , which neither want nor welcome the legal uncertainty and strongly encourage we to strike a deal . I be a transatlanticist , and we have to protect that important relationship . thirdly , inaction undermine our international standing . we be show that what we mean be what we say , when it come to international law and our desire for partnership with the global south . that strengthen our argument on issue such as Ukraine or the South China sea . far legal wrangling serve nobody ' s interest but our adversary ' . in a more volatile world , a deal benefit we all — the UK , the United States and Mauritius . this Government therefore make strike the good possible deal a priority . we appoint Jonathan Powell as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for these negotiation , and he have work closely with a brilliant team of civil servant and lawyer . their goal be a way forward that serve UK national interest , respect the interest of our partner , and uphold the international rule of law . the agreement fulfil these objective . it be strongly support by partner , with Present Biden go so far as to " applaud " our achievement within minute of the announcement . Secretary Blinken and Secretary Austin have also back this " successful outcome " which " reaffirm " our " special defence relationship " . the agreement have also be welcome by the Indian Government and commend by the United Nations Secretary - General . in return for our agree to mauritian sovereignty over the entire island , include Diego Garcia , the UK - US base have an uncontested long - term future . base operation will remain under full UK control well into the next century . Mauritius will authorise we to exercise their sovereign right and authority in respect of Diego Garcia . this be initially for 99 year , but the UK have the right to extend that . we have full mauritian backing for robust security arrangement , include to prevent foreign armed force from access or establish themselves on the outer island . the base ' s long - term future be therefore more secure under this agreement than without it . if that be not the case , I doubt the White House , State Department or Pentagon would have praise the deal so effusively . the agreement will be underpin by a financial settlement that be acceptable to both side . member will be aware that the Government do not normally reveal payment for our military basis overseas , so it would be inappropriate to publicise further detail of those arrangement at this stage . the agreement also recognise and right the wrong of the past . the whole House would agree that the manner in which Chagossians be forcibly remove in the 1960 be deeply wrong and regrettable . Mauritius be now free to implement a resettlement programme to island other than Diego Garcia . the United Kingdom and Mauritius have also commit to support Chagossians ' welfare , establish a new trust fund capitalise by the UK , and provide additional Government support to Chagossians in the UK . the UK will maintain the pathway for chagossian to obtain british citizenship . furthermore , Mauritius and the UK will establish a new programme of visit to the archipelago for Chagossians . the agreement also usher in a new era in our relation with Mauritius — a Commonwealth nation and Africa ' s lead democracy . we have agree to intensify co - operation on our share priority , include security , growth and the environment . the agreement ensure continue protection of the island ' unique environment , which be home to over 200 specie of coral and over 800 specie of fish . finally , I reassure the House and all member of the UK family worldwide that the agreement do not signal any change in policy on Britain ' s other overseas territory . british sovereignty over the Falkland Islands , Gibraltar and the sovereign base area be not up for negotiation . the situation be not comparable . that have be acknowledge across our overseas territory . Fabian Picardo , Chief Minister of Gibraltar , vocally support the agreement , state that there be " no possible read across " to Gibraltar on the issue of sovereignty . similarly , the Governor of the Falklands have confirm that the historical contexts of the Chagos island and the Falklands be " very different " . the Government remain firmly committed to modern partnership with our overseas territory base on mutual consent . after the mauritian election , the Government will move towards treaty signature , and it be our intention to pursue ratification in 2025 by submit the treaty and a Bill to this House for scrutiny . this be a historic moment , a victory for diplomacy . we have save the base and secure Britain ' s national interest for the long term . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for share his statement with I in advance . at a time when the world be more dangerous than at any point in our lifetime , when the middle east be on the edge of serious conflict , when there be war in Europe , and when british military force be engage in protect an ally from iranian missile , the Government propose give away a key strategic military asset to a state that have never control it , and to which the chagossian people feel little affinity , if any . it be frankly astonishing that this announcement be slip out at the end of last week , a few day before Parliament return , to advantage the election timetable of the govern party in Mauritius , rather than in a statement to the House . the Times put it well : " in a dangerous world Britain ' s security be be risk by minister and departmental lawyer who believe appease faux anti - colonialist sentiment in the UN matter more than the national interest . " UK sovereignty have apply to the British Indian Ocean Territory for more than 200 year . its strategic location , right in the centre of the indian ocean , be unmatchable , and it house our one and only military base in the Indo - Pacific . I can tell the House that this be a deal that the former Foreign Secretary , my noble Friend Lord Cameron , would never have do . nor for that matter would my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) . have they be willing to do it , the deal would have be conclude long ago . the Conservative Government decline to enter into a deal with Mauritius for reason that I think be now clear for the House to see . the Labour Government have not publish the draft treaty — they have publish only a non - legally bind joint statement — so we be somewhat in the dark about exactly what have be agree . crucially , can the Foreign Secretary guarantee that there will be a vote on this treaty ? the noble Lord West of Spithead , the most senior military figure ever to hold office in a Labour Government , say that there be " an irrefutable case that cede the Chagos Islands to Mauritius would be an irresponsible act , which would put our strategic interest … in danger , while also recklessly undermine fundamental principle of international law . " I would therefore be most grateful if the Foreign Secretary could answer the follow five question . first , never mind what the Chief Minister say ; what step have the Foreign Secretary and the Government take to reassure the people of Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands that this ill - advise decision will have no effect on their sovereignty ? secondly , and yet more importantly , what step be the Foreign Secretary take to make it clear that this decision will have no read - across for the sovereign base area in Cyprus — Episkopi , Dhekelia and Akrotiri ? thirdly , what assurance have he receive that no chinese military asset will be place on any of the nearby island in the archipelago ? while his word be welcome , the House need to see the wording clearly set out . fourthly , precisely how much money be we plan that british taxpayer should pay to Mauritius for each year under this deal , as well as in total ? we want full transparency on all payment that the Government intend to make , and on what the money be for . what be the payment for the privilege of give the territory away ? fifthly , what consultation have the Foreign Secretary undertake with the chagossian community in this country and elsewhere ? we note that his hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) have , with courage and integrity , oppose this deal . it remain to be see whether other on the Government Benches will have the good sense , courage and integrity so to do . Jonathan Powell have only just be appoint special envoy for these negotiation ; can the Foreign Secretary assure the House that the Government have ensure that there be time for we to draw on his expertise ? the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary propose give away Britain ' s key strategic asset in the indian ocean . little or no attention have be pay to the position of those with direct heritage and family link to Chagos . we have no clear detail of any safeguard that will guard against China , a close ally of Mauritius , set up military facility and surveillance capacity not far away . through this statement , the Government give succour to our enemy in a dangerous world , and undermine the strategic web of Britain ' s defence interest . our country be the poor and the less for it . it take some brass neck to criticise this government for deliver what the last Government try and fail to do . it be the last government that open these negotiation in the first place , because they understand what be at risk . they go through 11 round of negotiation and resolve nothing . instead , as with much that we find across Government , they leave it for we to inherit and to fix . the shadow Foreign Secretary pray in aid the previous Foreign Secretary and the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , who be now audition for the Tory leadership . the right hon . member for Braintree seem to have suffer short - term memory loss in the past few year , because he tell the Commons that , in negotiation with Mauritius , " our primary objective be to ensure the continue effective operation of our defence facility on Diego Garcia . " — [ Official Report , 13 June 2023 ; Vol . 734 , c . 151 . ] that be exactly what we deliver . do not take my word for it : ask President Biden , Secretary Blinken or Secretary Austin . if this can win the approval of the White House and the Pentagon on the protection of security interest , I think the shadow Foreign Secretary can rest easy and put down some of the bombast . the reality be that those who do not support the agreement support either abandon the base or break international law . I ask the right hon . gentleman : which be it ? our agreement secure the base , stop a potentially dangerous illegal migration route , protect the marine area , provide new support for the Chagossians and ensure that the UK be compliant with international law . there be a time when the Tories believe in international law ; they now seem to have give up , and be tell other people basically to go ahead and break it . the right hon . Gentleman know that this be a serious negotiation , which the last Government begin and leave to we to conclude . it secure the future of an important security asset in the indian ocean . the Conservatives posture ; we lead . Parliament will , of course , get the scrutiny that it deserve in the come month . he know , too , that this be a negotiation between two government , and of course we keep the Chagossians inform all along the way . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . in a parallel reality , may I ask the Foreign Secretary about a particular aspect of the treaty that I do not believe will get a great deal of attention in all the heat and fury , but that be very important ? at a time when our ocean have never be under such stress , the British Indian Ocean Territory be one of the last ocean wilderness in the world , and tuna trawler be line up on the boundary of the no - take zone , try to entice fish across into their net . artisanal fishing by chagossian who have come home be quite possible in this ecosystem , but license fishing be not , and any break in environmental protection will lead to a huge spike in illegal fishing . will the Foreign Security inform the House what provision have be make to ensure the ongoing protection of this unique part of the world once the administration of the island be hand over to Mauritius , and what involvement the Chagossians have have in that process ? I reassure my right hon . friend that we will of course do everything we can , and have do everything we can — include combat illegal fishing — to well secure the environment . a new marine protect area will be establish and manage as part of the deal . we will continue to work with the Mauritians on that marine protect area , and the United States will play its part as well . I be grateful for the question . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . five year on from the ICJ ruling , the liberal Democrats welcome the effort to comply with the advice of that court while protect our national security interest at a time of global insecurity . however , we put on record our concern about the way in which that process be conduct , and the risk that it bake into a new treaty the historic injustice face by the chagossian people . the voice of the Chagossians have be exclude throughout the negotiation and the outcome . that be deeply regrettable . the UK rightly believe in the principle of self - determination , yet there have be no opportunity for the self - determination of Chagossians . today I meet Maxwell Evenor , a Chagossian living in Crawley who be desperate to return to the island . Maxwell say to I : " all we have be our voice but that have be silence for so long . " will the Foreign Secretary set out how the voice of Chagossians can be inject into the process , even at this late stage ? the House be too often bypass under the last Conservative Government , so I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s assurance that there will be proper parliamentary oversight of the final treaty . finally , may I express my concern about some of the language use by those on the Benches of the official Opposition in response to this announcement ? there be no equivalence between the Chagos island and other british overseas territory . we must be absolutely clear about that , and I hope that the Foreign Secretary will reaffirm it . for some Conservative Members to entertain the idea that Gibraltar or the Falkland Islands be in some sense at risk be to play into the hand of those who do not share Britain ' s interest . we in this House must speak with one voice when it come to Britain ' s sovereign overseas territory . I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for raise the plight of the Chagossians . the way in which they be treat in the 1960 be wrong and be a matter of immense regret , and he be absolutely right to raise those issue . he will know that this negotiation be between two state party , as be the way with such matter , and we seek to keep the Chagossians inform along the way . my belief be that the previous Government also seek to do that . I reassure he that a trust fund have be set up to ensure that chagossian be able to get support . they be also able to apply for citizenship of this country . although there be not one view among chagossian group — he will recognise that there be Chagossians in the Seychelles , in Mauritius and in the United Kingdom , so it be hard to get one view — we will continue to do all we can to support they . I acknowledge the Foreign Secretary ' s word on try to right an historic wrong , and on how that will help to improve relation with the global south . I also note the word of support from our close ally , the US President . however , what mechanism have be put in place to ensure that the strategic defence importance of the US - UK base remain after the expiration of the deal ? how will we ensure that the voice of the Chagossians , who have never be under Mauritian Government control , will be central to any future arrangement ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Defence Committee . in relation to the global south , he will have see that the Government of India welcome the agreement , and that India commit to continue work with Mauritius and like - minded partner , include the United Kingdom — that be important . the agreement that have be strike can be extend upon completion of the lease . as I say before , we be commit to work with the Chagossians — that be why we have a trust fund set up . of course , now that Mauritius will effectively be in charge upon completion of the treaty , it be say that it will work with the Chagossians on resettlement — not on Diego Garcia , but on some of the other island in the surround . this be a shameful day for british democracy and a dark moment for human right in the United Kingdom . already , the people of the Chagos island have be forcibly remove from their homeland ; today , this Government be hand their home over to a foreign country that be in cahoot with a hostile nation . the Foreign Secretary must commit to allow the british chagossian people the right of self - determination — the same right we afford to every other british overseas territory . be the people of the Chagos island of less worth than the Falkland Islanders , the Gibraltarians or the people of any other british overseas territory ? will he commit to allow the people of the Chagos island to decide their own destiny ? I think the hon . Gentleman know well than that , have chair the all - party parliamentary group on Mauritius . he know that these discussion begin under the last government ; he will also have read the ICJ judgment and will know it be important that this deal be strike . the last Government leave it to we to do it ; we do it , and we be proud of it . word that be say in this House bear a huge amount of weight , particularly for citizen in Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands . will the Foreign Secretary clearly set out that nothing in this agreement or in his statement today affect their settle status and their self - determination ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for that question , and of course I agree with he wholeheartedly . can I say to the right hon . Gentleman that even when I be on the Government Benches , I be oppose to what my Government be do , even when they be only go to go halfway ? he support my position then ; why have he now turn around ? the one point I want to make to the right hon . Gentleman and his colleague on the Government Front Bench be that the Mauritian Government be guilty of vast human right abuse , lock up other politician who be independent , and that the black Creole Mauritians be traduce by that Government . we have hand that government right that the Chagossians have never agree to , so my question be this : why be this do in a rush , just before their election ? the Mauritian Government will now use this agreement to benefit themselves in the re - election process . why be we do that to support a disgusting Government who be in league with the Chinese ? the right hon . Gentleman have immense experience in this House . as member of this House know , sometimes one be able to strike up friendship across the Floor — we be fellow Spurs supporter — but Mauritius be a country that be part of our Commonwealth , so I can not possibly associate myself with the remark that the right hon . Gentleman have just make . let we be clear : what be do to the Chagossians back in the 1960s be a matter of regret . it be a sore that have run through our relation with Mauritius , but also with substantial part of the global south . that be why we continue the negotiation and strike this agreement — the right hon . Gentleman may well have disagree with the last government , but I remind he that they undertake 11 round of negotiation . on the penultimate day of the last Labour Government , the then Foreign Secretary , David Miliband , create the marine protect area around the British Indian Ocean Territory . at that time , it be the large protect area anywhere in the world . as my right hon . friend know , the last time a prosecution be bring for illegal fishing in that area be in 2020 , four and a half year ago , and the way in which that prosecution be conduct mean that a £ 10 , 000 fine — a mere slap on the wrist — be levy against the vessel . such vessel take hundred of thousand of pound of fish out of that marine protect area . who be go to pay ? how committed be the Government to ensure that that marine protect area continue to exist , and how will they ensure that the minimal level of protection that be currently in place be increase ? I know how my hon . friend have champion these issue for many year , and I reassure he that this be an issue of intense discussion under the last government and under this government . we recognise the importance of that marine protect area , and when he see the provision of the treaty come forward , we can of course have a further discussion on that surety . it would appear that the judgment — the potential next judgment — of a spurious , rather political foreign Court matter more than the issue of national sovereignty . the Foreign Secretary boast that President Biden like this deal . the Speaker say early that this House should not be affect by election that take place in foreign country , but how confident be the Foreign Secretary that Donald Trump , if he become the 47th president of the USA , will approve of this deal , give the importance of our relationship with America ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . let I reassure he that we have seek to take view across the US political establishment , but I do say to he that to get a US President , a US Secretary of State for foreign affair and a US Secretary of Defence to applaud this agreement should reassure he that the US would do nothing that help our enemy , particularly the Chinese , in this regard . can the Foreign Secretary confirm that , despite other try to score cheap political point and recklessly scaremonger among the resident of our other overseas territory , this Government be completely committed to support the right of self - determination of the people of Gibraltar and of the Falklands ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who chair the all - party group on Gibraltar . we unequivocally support the right of both Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands to self - determination . I be pleased to see the Chief Minister come out categorically and put down some of the false statement that be be make last week . the old principle that we use to apply be the Wilson principle — the principle of self - determination — which the Foreign Secretary may remember be the defence of the Falkland Islands and the defence of Gibraltar . he have now just violate that principle by undermine the right of the chagossian people in favour of a claim that be abandon in 1965 — it be never really make because it be only administrative , and the island be never properly govern from Mauritius anyway — and by be in favour of a Court judgment that be advisory , he have sell out the sovereignty of the british people . truly , nobody apart from a boy call Jack have ever make a bad deal on the way to market , and he have come back with a handful of bean that he be try to sell as a prize . I have to say that I have always admire the right hon . Gentleman ' s eloquence , but I have not always admire his principle . he be part of the last government — and I reject it then . do the right hon . Gentleman raise this when he be part of the last government , and do he make it a resignation issue ? no , he do not , because he know that we inherit this , and we have to make a deal . can I begin by congratulate Conservative Members on their sudden interest in national security ? they must have forget all about the million and million of russian rouble swill about in the party ' s bank account . I do have a question for the Foreign Secretary , and I want to ask a question on behalf of my constituent in Plymouth and of the constituency of the Royal Marines community in the UK . the Falklands and Gibraltar represent something really personal and special to anyone who have serve in the Navy or the Royal Marines . these be place that hold a real emotional weight : not only do it say " Gibraltar " across the Royal Marines cap badge , but it be write across our heart . can the Foreign Secretary please assure that constituency about what this government ' s plan be for the Falklands Islands and Gibraltar ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue , and for his service and the seriousness with which he put his remark . I can give he that unequivocal assurance for the Falklands , for Gibraltar , for Cyprus and the right that exist . the situation in the British Indian Ocean Territory be completely different and not comparable , and I regret that in a way this decision have be make against the backdrop of a conservative leadership contest , and that colleague who know a lot well have seek to make partisan point with something so important . do the Government take the trouble to consult the head of their own strategic defence review , Lord Robertson of Port Ellen , before announce this decision ? if so , what do Lord Robertson say ? the SDR be suppose to report early next year . would it not have be more sensible to see what its finding be before take a militarily risky decision such as this ? this deal secure the future of the base beyond the lifetime of anyone currently in this Parliament , and it can be extend . that be why the US Secretary of Defence have welcome it . I would have think that a former head of NATO of course welcome this deal , because it secure the base and our national security , and the national security of the global community . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that the vital operation on the base on Diego Garcia will remain completely unaltered and without disruption thank to this agreement ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . absolutely , yes , I can . over the past 210 year chagossian have be trade , deprive of their liberty and of their dignity . they have be displace from their homeland and now , thank to this process , they face the prospect of be dispossess from their island and from their future hope of self - determination . chagossian be not child , and they do not require or ask for a trust fund . they be a proud community of many thousand of people who have be wrong time after time , and who today be look to the Foreign Secretary , to the UK , and to member of this House to ensure that their right to self - determination be understand and respect . many of those Chagossians be outside right now . can the right hon . Gentleman offer they that reassurance and think again on this negotiation ? the way that the Chagossians be treat be wrong , and this deal secure a right to settlement for they to the outer island . the hon . Gentleman will know that there be a range of opinion among they , but he be absolutely right to put on record the manner in which they be treat , which I hope the whole House would accept be a matter of immense regret . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the threat of illegal migration on to Diego Garcia carry the threat of create a further smuggling route into the UK , and have that threat now be shut down ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise a serious issue . on the signing of that treaty that be now a matter for Mauritius , and she be right to highlight that important issue in term of our own national security . I do not know how many people in the Chamber have visit these island , but I go there with the Defence Committee 38 year ago . it be crucial in our whole effort in the cold war against the Soviet Union . we never appease once in that cold war , and we win it . the question I want to ask — it be a serious question — be this : give that Mauritius have a close relationship with China , and give that we can not trust a single word the Chinese say with our experience on Hong Kong , and give that they be militarise island all over the Pacific , be we absolutely sure that sometime in the future the Chinese will not exert pressure on the Mauritian Government to have a base on these island ? I have to say that such a senior Member of the House of Commons should just check his fact a little bit more closely . Mauritius be one of only two country in Africa that have not participate in China ' s belt and road . Mauritius be an ally of India , not China . this Government have commit to a reset of the UK ' s relationship with the global south . do the Foreign Secretary agree that put this issue to bed will help neutralise the charge that the UK play by double standard where international law be concern ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . some would argue that the International Court of Justice advisory opinion of 2019 be only advisory and that the UN General Assembly resolution of 22 May 2019 be not bind , but he will recognise that many of our close ally vote against we on that occasion . it be important that we be a country that uphold the rule of law . I be call to come to this Dispatch Box to make the case for stand with Ukraine and for international humanitarian law . for all those reason , we must be a country that uphold the rule - base order . we have just hand sovereign british territory to a small island nation that be an ally of China , and we be pay for the privilege , all so the Foreign Secretary can feel good about himself at his next north London dinner party . in whose interest do he think he serve : those of the global diplomatic elite or those of the british people and our national interest ? well , I hope that question may have garner the right hon . gentleman a few more vote , but if that be his position , he be unlikely to lead the conservative party to victory . this deal secure the base and it be in our national interest . that be why it be a good deal and it be why the President and the Defence Secretary of the United States applaud and welcome this deal . what do they know about global national security that he do not ? it be fairly unseemly , see a leadership race be conduct in the middle of a foreign policy debate — that be what be happen — but do the Secretary of State agree that clarity over the legal status of Diego Garcia , achieve through diplomacy with a Commonwealth partner , cement our influence in the Indo - Pacific ? I be hugely grateful to my hon . friend , because the Commonwealth matter to those on the Government Benches . it use to matter to those on the Opposition Benches . as we head to the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Samoa , it be hugely important that we be a country that play by the rule . that be why this agreement be so important . I do not think it will come as a huge surprise to anyone that , unlike the outraged masse sit to my right , I have absolutely no problem with the principle of the United Kingdom divest itself of what little remain of its colonial past . can I ask the Minister about the involvement of the chagossian people in this process — a people who he accept have be treat shamefully by the United Kingdom and whose forced displacement be rightly regard as a crime against humanity ? will he be clear about when his government meet the chagossian people , the nature of the discussion that be have and the extent to which the opinion of the chagossian people be represent in this deal ? as I have say , this deal will mean that , for the first time , Chagossians will be able to resettle on the outer island . this be a negotiation between the United Kingdom Government and Mauritius ; that be the nature of the state agreement . of course , we seek to keep Chagossians inform , but I remind the hon . gentleman — he know this — that there be a range of chagossian group , with some in the Seychelles , some in Mauritius and some in this country . when the former Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , be lead negotiation with Mauritius , he say : " our primary objective be to ensure the continue effective operation of our defence facility on Diego Garcia . " — [ Official Report , 13 June 2023 ; Vol . 734 , c . 151 . ] this Government have now deliver that . on that basis , should the Conservatives not be welcome the agreement ? my hon . friend be completely right , but she know that the Conservatives have get a leadership contest on , and this be a bit of a beauty parade . that be why they be step away from a negotiation that they begin , have 11 round on and fail to deliver on . have hear the Foreign Secretary ' s performance this afternoon , we now know why the Government do not dare announce this in the House of Commons . this abject surrender of british sovereign territory for nothing — that be what it be — risk a chinese veto over a vital military facility . may I ask the Foreign Secretary how much in rent this country will now pay Mauritius for the right to lease back what be already ours ? which Government Department — the Ministry of Defence or the Foreign and Commonwealth Office — will pay the landlord ? the right hon . Gentleman mention a chinese veto . the Chinese do not have a veto in this House . the treaty will be scrutinise by this House . all Members will be able to look at it , debate it and reflect on it . of course , at the time of publish the treaty , there will be a discussion of the cost , but no base agreement ever discuss cost , because that would damage our national security , and the Government be not prepared to do that . give that the previous Government begin these negotiation , do the Foreign Secretary agree that while Opposition Members may now be more interested in the view of Tory party member , this Government will always act in Britain ' s national interest ? my hon . friend be right . the conservative party use to claim to be a party of defence . this be an agreement that secure our national defence and security interest in an important part of the globe , so it be shameful to see Opposition Members behave as they be . may I just describe the right hon . Gentleman as hopelessly naive ? have he not see how the rule of international law across the world be collapse under the challenge from Russia , Iran , North Korea and China ? give a few flimsy piece of paper , how much do he think that China or any of those other country will respect it after we have give up the principle that this be british sovereign territory ? up against a tough geopolitical environment in which Russia , Iran , North Korea and China be far from play by the global rule , it be hugely important that this country be one that support the rule - base order , and it be hugely important that this facility have be secure for long than anybody else in this Parliament be able to do . that be what we have secure . I trust the judgment of our close ally , not that of the hon . Gentleman . I welcome the fact that an agreement have be reach over the Chagos island that help to right a historic wrong and guarantee the security that we need . among the confected outrage from the Opposition Benches we have hear the expect scaremongere over the future of other territory , include Gibraltar . both the Foreign Secretary and the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) have in recent month reaffirm the double lock on Gibraltar ' s sovereignty , mean not only that gibraltarian sovereignty will never be alter without its people ' s consent but that the UK Government will never enter into a process of negotiation with which the gibraltarian people be not content . do that remain the case ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct . my hon . friend the Minister of State communicate that with a letter to the Prime Minister just a few week ago . what we have see in the last few day from the opposition have be wholly irresponsible . the Foreign Secretary say he be establish a trust fund and that Chagossians will be able to apply for british citizenship . what discussion do he have with the chagossian people about that ? can he confirm that the Home Office be ready to deal with the application ? they already can apply for UK citizenship . of course we have be in dialogue and discussion with the Chagossians . my hon . friend the Minister of State have meet they regularly . do my right hon . friend agree that this agreement have no bearing on the Government ' s relationship with the other overseas territory and that the UK Government ' s policy towards the Falkland Islands , Gibraltar and other territory remain unchanged , with support for their right to self - determination ? self - determination be the key word , and we absolutely support the right of the people of the Falkland Islands and Gibraltar in that regard . come from Northern Ireland , I be not surprised that this Government have surrender british interest against the wish of the people who live there , because , after all , they support the previous Government ' s deal in relation to EU demand on Northern Ireland . the Government have give away a strategic interest . they have not publish the deal . they will not reveal the cost . they will not guarantee that there will be no chinese influence in this strategic area . they have hand this strategic interest to a country that have no historical claim . do the Foreign Secretary not recognise the impact that this have on other people who be eye british territory — the EU in respect of Gibraltar and Argentina in respect of the Falklands ? this be a dirty , dangerous and desperate deal . it be a shameful surrender of british interest . be the Foreign Secretary rely on the fact that the Government have a huge , sledgehammer majority that can drive this through the House , despite its impact on long - term british interest ? I think the right hon . Gentleman lose much of the House when he say that the people live there — they do not ; that be the whole point . this be a deal that will give they the right to resettlement on the outer island . I do not recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s caricature . President Biden , Secretary Blinken and Secretary Austin have welcome the agreement . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Tory critic do not know more about US national security than the White House and the Pentagon ? my hon . friend make an important point . he know , as the whole House know , that it do not matter who be in the White House or who be in no . 10 : for generation , the US and the UK have act in concert , and the future of Diego Garcia have be central to that . it have be central to the security of the Indo - Pacific and the wide Pacific , and central to global security . the capability across our nation be essential . that be why it be so sad to see the conservative party not live up to where it should be on these crucial issue of national security , which ought not to be partisan . my old boss , Admiral Lord West of Spithead , win his Distinguished Service Cross in the Falklands in 1982 . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , Lord West be a former labour security Minister . why do the right hon . Gentleman think that Lord West be of the view that what he be do pose a grave security risk to this country and be likely to undermine our position in the Falkland Islands ? will he give a straight answer to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , who ask whether Lord Robertson have be consult in any way over the decision that the Foreign Secretary have make ? I urge the right hon . Gentleman to read the remark of the Chief Minister of the Falkland Islands , and I urge he to consult more widely the defence establishment in this country , which be pleased that an issue that be look as though it might become very contentious between we and the United States in term of global national security have now be settle . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and particularly for the reassurance give to our brother and sister in Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands . the scaremongering in respect of those two area have be absolutely shameful . however , in the spirit of try to achieve cross - party consensus , it be really important to acknowledge the work of the previous Government on this subject and how that have provide the foundation for what we have today . before then , progress be all too slow , and it shame our country . none the less , I want to give the Secretary the opportunity again to reassure we that this deal be in our strategic interest and also the interest of our partner . there be seriousness behind my hon . friend ' s question . I reassure he that the Defence Secretary and I have seek to secure a deal that secure the future of the base long after any of we in this Chamber be leave . in particular , it ensure that China can not locate on any of the other island , as well as Diego Garcia . in truth , that be why the President , Defence Secretary and Secretary of State of the United States have welcome this deal . it be also important to recognise that India have welcome this deal — it do not want China in its backyard . how do the cost of lease compare with the saving that the Government be make on the winter fuel allowance ? the right hon . Gentleman will be able to return to these issue when the treaty be before the House . he must wait , as I do , for the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer . I wonder whether the Foreign Secretary will have a go at answer a direct question . how much will the UK have to pay for the privilege of cede our sovereignty ? as I have say , these be issue that we can discuss when we have the treaty . it be not routine for any Government to comment on base arrangement . the hon . Lady would not expect we to do that and put our national interest at stake . do the Foreign Secretary agree that this Government ' s commitment to our populated british overseas territory be fundamental , unshakeable and unbreakable . I be glad to hear he make his statement , and I think this be a good thing for Britain . my hon . friend be right . there be an important distinction between the indian ocean overseas territory and Diego Garcia , and Gibraltar and the Falklands , which be , of course , populate . the self - determination of those people be essential to their future , which be why the remark that have be make over the past few day be wholly unacceptable and shameful . will the Foreign Secretary take the opportunity to recognise that what happen to the chagossian people in the 1960 and 1970 be abominable , abusive , illegal and disgraceful ? many of they live in poverty for many year after in the Seychelles and Mauritius . they have long demand their right to return to Diego Garcia and to the archipelago , which have be deny until now . it be right for the Foreign Secretary to pay tribute to those Chagossians who lead that campaign for the right of return and resettlement on their home island . an apology be due to the chagossian people for the way they be treat . could I also ask the Foreign Secretary about the situation in Diego Garcia ? it be unclear to I whether chagossian people can visit , reside , stay or remain there , or whether they will be deny go there for another 140 year because of the deal do with the USA . finally , why have the Americans be offer a 140 - year lease as part of this deal ? that be a very long time in record history of any sort , and long than many country have even exist . can he explain that ? the right hon . Gentleman have champion the Chagossians in their plight for many year in this House . he make his remark with tremendous passion and strength , and he be right to do so . the way they be treat be wrong . I will have more to say on that when I bring forward the treaty in the month ahead . on whether they will now have a right to visit Diego Garcia , I must tell he that they will not under this treaty . any resettlement or visit will be to the outer island . this be an important US - UK security base , so I be unable to give he that assurance — they do not have that right under this treaty . I do not believe I ever have the pleasure of fly into our joint base on Diego Garcia , either in the US Air Force or as a pilot in our own Royal Air Force , but its strategic value in term of the capability that it offer and the relationship it cement with our US partner be clear , as be its contested existence . do my right hon . friend agree that it be a Tory Government that start the negotiation , because they recognise the dangerous situation face the base , and that this Labour Government have now ensure that the base be undisputed and on a secure footing ? I thank my hon . friend for his service . he be absolutely right to raise the issue of the island be contest and this agreement put they beyond contestation . that make we all more secure as a result , as he know because of his service . I think that most of the general public who have pay attention recognise that this be a deal that we in the United Kingdom can be proud of . after that performance from the Foreign Secretary , I be delighted to read that there will be reshuffle at Christmas . he should revisit his statement , as he say that my noble Friend Lord Cameron carry on the negotiation — I be his parliamentary private Secretary when he end the negotiation ; this Foreign Secretary capitulate in three week . give the sham negotiation that he have carry out , can he assure I that no military equipment will be allow to be station on not only the outer island but the inner island under this agreement over the 99 year ? can he outline to the House — he have not manage to outline much this afternoon — what scrutiny structure and how many vote we will be allow in this House when he lay the treaty ? yes to the hon . Gentleman ' s question . we will come forward with plan in due course . in the Foreign Secretary ' s oral statement he say : " a bind judgment against the UK seem inevitable " . that seem mislead verbal baby food at well . so far , there have be a non - bind advisory opinion and nothing to suggest that we will breach any form of international law . at a time of increase global conflict , will the Foreign Secretary explain to the House why there be such urgency to do what he be propose ? it seem to be a case of act in haste and repent at leisure . it be precisely to put the base on a secure footing , because of that global uncertainty , that this deal be the right deal . I must say that I be surprise by labour ' s conversion to the merit of leasehold rather than the security of freehold ownership — I do not think that be its position . in addition to be an unsinkable aircraft carrier , the British Indian Ocean Territory be host to unique space observation capability . it be the only remote monitoring place in the southern hemisphere that be able to see part of the sky to which we would otherwise be blind . space be a heavily contest military domain , so do the Foreign Secretary even know about these space monitoring capability ? what be his plan to secure alternative to save our freedom and security ? foreign Secretaries do not comment on such capability , but the House will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s remark . there be no dispute in the House that Diego Garcia be a vital strategic base in the heart of the British Indian Ocean Territory . will the Foreign Secretary undertake , when he publish the detail of the treaty provision , to include two thing : first , the exclusion zone around Diego Garcia — how many mile — and secondly , provision to prevent any other foreign power establish a sovereign military base on any of the archipelago of the British Indian Ocean Territory ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise these issue . he will be able to scrutinise provision in that regard in the come month . the Foreign Secretary have come to this House with the smile of a favourite , have exchange british sovereign territory for a 99 - year lease from a chinese ally , and expect to be applaud for it . he claim in his statement that we can extend the lease , but can he inform the House whether that right be unilateral and , if so , how many year will that extension be ? why do he think that this piece of paper will prevent chinese encroachment ? as I have already say , this be not a chinese ally ; it be one of two country that have not participate in China ' s belt and road in the continent of Africa , for a reason . it be an ally of India , not a chinese ally , and it be hard to take the hon . Gentleman seriously if he can not even get his fact right . we have hear with great interest all these other country that the Foreign Secretary be look to please . I be interested in our country . I be interested in what go on in this House . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that we will have a vote , and the mechanism by which that vote will come to this House , so that we can have a say on our sovereignty and what we own ? the hon . Gentleman be not new to this House . we will follow the usual process , as he would expect . we see a previous Labour Government sell off this country ' s gold . we now have a Labour Government who be surrender our sovereignty and give away our territory . have the Foreign Secretary have any specific discussion with the chagossian people as part of the negotiation ? I will not take lecture from a party that leave a £ 22 billion black hole and our public service in a state . the chutzpah of the opposition be unbelievable . those of we who have have the privilege of visit some of the overseas territory or meet their representative here in Westminster be very much aware of their strong loyalty to and admiration for the United Kingdom . even if they have hear what the Foreign Secretary say this afternoon , perhaps they be right to have a nagging doubt that that loyalty will not be return , be they not ? let I just say to the hon . Gentleman , because there be seriousness behind his question , that all of we believe in the right to self - determination . I be unequivocally , absolutely clear that the overseas territory remain an important part of our national story and nothing we have do in this deal put they in any jeopardy . give the exploitative response of Argentina in the context of the Falklands , be it not clear that those with malevolent aspiration about british territory be draw comfort from the belief create by this deal that this Government be weak on the question of sovereignty ? do that not come off the back of the fact that Westminster , within the United Kingdom , surrender sovereignty in over 300 area of law in Northern Ireland to a foreign Parliament — namely , the European Parliament ? if the Foreign Secretary want to demonstrate that his assurance to Gibraltar and the Falklands be to be take seriously , then should he not begin by reclaim sovereignty over all of the United Kingdom and reverse the surrender of sovereignty in over 300 area of law in Northern Ireland ? we will always defend the Falkland Islands . I raise that point with Argentina ' s Foreign Secretary just last week in New York . in the mid - 1960 , when Mauritius be grant independence , it agree , as part of that deal , to relinquish all claim to this british sovereign territory , which we have own since the treaty of Paris in 1814 . why do the Foreign Secretary see fit to do a deal with a nation that have renege on a previous deal , and why be we sell a sovereign asset that we all agree be of great value for no money up front ? we be pay they . it be negligent . because we have do a deal that secure the security of the global community . I can not recall if the hon . Gentleman be legally qualified , but I have to tell he that we find ourselves with no one support our claim in the family of the UN and the rule - base order . for that reason , the previous Government begin the negotiation and it be absolutely right that we conclude they . the Foreign Secretary have make a very clear point . in 1982 Margaret Thatcher set the precedent that the United Kingdom would do everything necessary to defend our overseas territory . some 42 year later , it be important that that legacy be carry on . will the Foreign Secretary commit to ensure that this decision have no bearing on other overseas territory , such as the Falklands or Gibraltar ? I have many friend who live in the Falklands and Gibraltar . what step will be take to protect and preserve they ? yes , I can . in that regard , I want to associate myself with the remark of the former Prime Minister and state once again that the right to self - determination govern our relationship with the overseas territory . they remain a very important part of our national story and nothing in this deal undermine that important relationship . that be why the Governor of the Falklands and Fabian Picardo in Gibraltar have be very clear about that in the past few day . rise — I do not think the hon . Gentleman be stand throughout the statement . Carbon Capture , Usage and Storage before we come to the next statement , may I reiterate the comment that Mr Speaker make early today ? while the whole House understand that the business of government will go on during recess and that minister be require to respond to event , it be frustrating for hon . member when statement be make during scheduled period of recess , when the House be not sit . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hear your statement , and Mr Speaker ' s early . with permission , I would like to make a statement on the Government ' s carbon capture programme . last week be a historic week for our energy system . on Monday , 142 year of coal - fire electricity generation come to an end , as Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station close for the last time . I pay tribute to the generation of coal worker , at Ratcliffe and elsewhere , who power our country for more than a century , and to power station worker ; we owe they a huge debt . I be sure that sentiment be share across the whole House . as one era end and we begin the next stage of Britain ' s energy journey , the Government be determined to create a new generation of good job in our industrial heartland . on Friday , we begin a new era , as Government and industry agree the deal that will launch Britain ' s carbon capture industry . this have be a long time come . I be proud , as Energy Secretary , to kick - start the process of develop carbon capture way back in 2009 — some hon . member be then still at school , and I be much greyer now — with a £ 1 billion competition . in 2011 , that programme be cancel by the coalition Government . in 2012 , a new competition be announce , and in 2015 , it too be cancel . when we come to office , we inherit an in - principle aspiration to go ahead , but the very significant Government funding require have not yet be account for , so under the last government we have fit and start , dither and delay . by contrast , just three month since we come to office , this Government have turn promise into reality . I can confirm to the House that we have agree commercial term , and £ 21 . 7 billion of funding over 25 year for five carbon capture , usage and storage project across two cluster : hynet in the north - west , and the East Coast Cluster in the north - east . this announcement will enable the construction of two transport and storage network that will underpin this new industry . the highway for carbon capture and the deal we have agree will also kick - start development of Net Zero Teesside , the world ' s large gas with CCUS plant , and — these be both in Ellesmere Port — Protos , a new CCUS energy from waste facility , and EET Hydrogen , the UK ' s first large - scale blue hydrogen project , which be the clean in the world . they will crowd in £ 8 billion of private investment across the two cluster , create 4 , 000 job in our industrial heartland and build an initial capacity to remove over 8 . 5 million tonne of carbon emission each and every year . I pay tribute to the six new labour mps in Teesside and colleague across the north - west who have be brilliant champion for those project . this be just the start ; we will have more to say in the come month about carbon capture site in Humberside , Scotland and elsewhere around the country . this investment be the right thing to do for Britain . ccus will unlock the decarbonisation of hard - to - abate sector , from chemical to cement ; enable the production of low - carbon hydrogen ; and , by capture emission from gas - fire power station , play an important role , alongside renewable and nuclear , in deliver clean power by 2030 and beyond . that be why expert in body range from the Climate Change Committee to the International Energy Agency be clear that carbon capture be critical to our meeting our climate commitment . there be those who doubt that . to they I quote James Richardson , the act chief executive of the Climate Change Committee , who say on Friday quite simply : " we can ' t hit the country ' s target without CCUS " . the IEA , in a report from 2020 that I very much recommend to right hon . and hon . member , say : " reach net zero will be virtually impossible without CCUS " , point to " heavy industry " that " account for almost 20 % of global co2 emission today " . to those who doubt whether the technology can work , I point out that it have be operate safely for decade in Norway and the US . last week ' s announcement put the UK on the path to lead the world in deploy carbon capture at scale . be an early mover in this technology offer huge economic and industrial benefit for Britain . the North sea mean that we have the chance to lead ; it give we the capacity to store 200 year of our carbon emission , have exist infrastructure that can be repurpose , and allow we to use the talent and experience of our highly skilled oil and gas workforce . over the last few year , around the world we have see the race for the job and industry of the future accelerate . for too long , Britain have opt out and lose out . no long . we will harness Britain ' s geology , know - how and expertise to be a world leader in this technology that will define the 21st century , build an industry that could support up to 50 , 000 job by the 2030 and use every tool at our disposal to seize the opportunity for Britain , with a proper industrial strategy and a commitment — which be absolutely crucial — to use public and private investment to build the future that our country deserve . that be all part of the action of a Government who , in the last three month , have show that we be in a hurry to deliver our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower . we have lift the onshore wind ban , consent to record amount of nationally significant solar , launch Great British Energy , deliver the most successful renewable auction in british history , and set out our plan to lift more than a million household out of fuel poverty . we be move apace , both because of the urgency of the challenge that we face and because of this Government ' s determination to win for Britain . last week mark the end of one chapter in our country ' s energy story and the start of a new one — a new era show that we can decarbonise and reindustrialise , a new era of clean energy job and investment in our industrial heartland , and a new era of climate leadership . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for give I advance sight of his statement . while I welcome the news today , I be sadden , if not surprised , that he have not have the grace to acknowledge the work of the last Government in get we to this place . I know that his opinion be not that of the many partner who have come together to get this project over the line , and it do a huge disservice to his official , who have work so incredibly hard over the last couple of year to get we here . as far as I can see , the only positive investment that the Labour party seem to have make in its first 100 day — the Blackstone artificial intelligence datum centre in Northumberland , the sixth assessment report and now this — be negotiate under the Conservatives . this be what the right hon . Gentleman ' s party have turn into reality : it have crash business confidence , and oversee £ 666 million of asset from UK - focus equity fund flee the country . no wonder it have have to have a change of management . in 2022 , in the Energy Security Bill , we set out £ 1 billion of investment and the business model to support the CCUS market . our aim be to have four industrial cluster by 2030 . I must pay tribute to all who have work together on those plan , include BP , Equinor , Eni , and all those involve with HyNet and the East Coast Cluster . the brilliant Mayor of Tees Valley , Ben Houchen , have be a lead light in this regard for many year . I note that the Secretary of State do not mention he , which be pretty graceless , but I be sure that he would like to welcome his work . I must also mention the former Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , who first announce Government support for carbon capture technology amount to £ 20 billion last year . that , ultimately , be the breakthrough step that get we here . the Secretary of State say that CCUS be not fund . let I remind he of the extent to which he be rest his laurel on a set of draft policy statement for nuclear from back in 2009 that have no Treasury funding attach . I have agreement that at least £ 20 billion would be spend follow the next spending review . the Secretary of State be a former Treasury spad , so he know what that mean . as always , it be the cheap politic that he reach for . he be , I be afraid , the ultimate career politician . in fact , the funding that we have announce , which would run for 20 year , be about £ 200 million more per year than what he have set out today . can he confirm that the project have not be scale back , and if they have be , will he tell we where the loss will be ? we have also have no word on the track 2 cluster , Acorn and Viking , on which we be due to make progress over the summer ; they be conspicuously absent from the Secretary of State ' s statement . many people will be deeply concerned , so can he update the House on those two project ? more widely , while his announcement rightly draw attention to the importance of british industry , both the TUC and the GMB have warn repeatedly about his net zero plan and what they will mean for british industry . in the word of Gary Smith , the leader of the GMB , the Secretary of State ' s approach have be to export job and import virtue . let we look at what have happen on Labour ' s watch . at Grangemouth , 400 job be at risk , with nearly 3 , 000 potentially affected . at Port Talbot , 3 , 500 job be under threat , and at Scunthorpe , there be the potential for 2 , 500 job loss before Christmas . moreover , Labour be put 200 , 000 job at risk through their plan to ban new oil and gas licence and to make the UK regime the most punitive fiscal regime for the sector anywhere in the world . when will the Secretary of State publish an assessment of the impact that his plan for the North sea will have on job , and on investment in clean energy ? after all , this carbon capture investment today would not be possible without Eni , Equinor and BP — company use the stable finance of their oil and gas business to invest in clean energy . the Secretary of State have talk about the importance of UK decarbonisation in tackle climate change , but will he acknowledge that his plan to target UK production will not mean that we use less ? they will just leave we import more from abroad — import more oil and gas from the United States and the middle east , and import more steel from China , which be still 60 % power by coal . will he acknowledge that both those development will actually increase global emission ? it would be carbon accounting go mad . it might leave some in the green lobby cheer at our reduce emission , but overall there would be more carbon in the atmosphere and few job here in Britain . be the Labour party seriously go to be responsible for the end of steelmaking in the UK , with the add cost of the loss of more than 10 , 000 job in our most leave - behind community ? the Secretary of State must acknowledge that a well balance have to be find . the Secretary of State have still make no comment on , and no apology for , promise the british public at the general election saving of £ 300 on their energy bill by 2030 . will he finally give an answer to his Back Benchers , the House and all our constituent , and explain what have happen to that pledge ? I know that the right hon . Lady be in a difficult position , and it rather show today . let we be honest : the truth be quite painful for she . she fail , as Energy Secretary , to get carbon capture over the line , year after year — well , to be fair , she be only in the job for 10 month , but certainly month after month . the funding be never secure , because there be not the political will from the Chancellor or the Prime Minister . we have see a long line of 20 Energy Secretaries and 14 year of failure . I must give the right hon . Lady her due : she do try , I be sure ; but there be nothing but dither and delay . when we come to office , the funding have not be account for as part of a spending review ; it simply be not there . there be just a vague promise . now it be quite difficult for the right hon . Lady , and perhaps we should have a little sympathy for she , because she have have to come to the House and see what a Government actually deliver look like . let I deal with the right hon . Lady ' s question in turn . she have the brass neck to suggest that the problem at Grangemouth and Port Talbot be somehow due to the negligence of this Government . let I tell the House about Grangemouth . I come to office with the closure of Grangemouth already announce and likely to happen . I have probably have more conversation with my counterpart in the Scottish Government than Tory Ministers have in 10 year , because they just be not interested . we should be extremely angry about that . so what do we do ? we fund the Willow project , which the Tories do not fund . we add to the growth deal , which they do not do . we say that we would have a national wealth fund with the potential to fund Project Willow . we have none of that from the right hon . Lady . she just be not interested . she just do not care ; that be the truth of the matter . of course it be ideological , rather than accidental . [ interruption . ] yes , it be . a bit of honesty from the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) ! I note that he be very honest about the right hon . Lady at the party conference . the truth be that the Tories do not have an industrial strategy because they do not believe in an industrial strategy . let I deal with the rest of the right hon . Lady ' s nonsense . I be very pleased that she be interested in Gary Smith , because he have say : " this be a serious step in the right direction and a welcome investment in job and industry after year of neglect under the previous administration . " that be the reality . as for the other stuff that the right hon . Lady say , I think that she have a decision to make . she begin her political career in the Conservative Environment Network , and she have end up back a net zero sceptic for the Tory leadership . I think it be a little bit sad . she should take some time to reflect on that , and on the utter contrast between her failure and this Government ' s delivery . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . unlike the shadow Secretary of State , I be very pleased that the Secretary of State have announce job in Teesside — job from which my constituent in the north - west of England will potentially benefit . I be also very pleased that we have a Government who be commit to an industrial strategy , and who believe in Government work in partnership with business . the Secretary of State mention just how important it be that we have this technology if we be to decarbonise ; he quote James Richardson in make the case . it will be crucial for the abatement of heavy industry such as chemical , glass — the Secretary of State go to visit a glass factory in the north - west on Friday — and cement , but it will also be crucial for hydrogen production , for the new gas - fire power station and , indeed , for convert waste into energy . how long do he think we will need this technology for the abatement of heavy industry , and how long do he think we will need it for hydrogen production and production from gas ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; he make a really important point . some people be sceptical about the use of carbon capture and storage . the truth be that for hard - to - abate industry — cement , for example — unless we have CCS technology , either there will be no future for these industry or they will not be able to decarbonise . yes , it be an investment , but it be absolutely crucial , and I be strike by what the IEA say . we be talk about probably 20 % of industry , and we be do the right thing for Britain and set an example to the world . I always say on these occasion that , when it come to blue hydrogen and gas with CCUS , we need all the technology at our disposal on this decarbonisation journey . it be go to be a primarily renewable - base system , but nuclear have an important role and we need dispatchable decarbonised or low - carbon generation as well . all these thing have a role , and the pathway will become clear over time , but this issue be so urgent that I want to have all the technology at our disposal . I call the Lib Deb spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . the Liberal Democrats be commit to support british industry in cut carbon emission and get the country back on track towards meet our climate target . it can not be emphasise enough how significant it be that this announcement come at the same time as we hear about the UK be the first industrial nation to close its last coal - fire power plant . we have be dependent on coal for 150 year , so that be absolutely key . it be clear that the future lie with renewable and clean energy , where we need to bring urgency and the necessary scale of investment . the Conservative Government ' s irresponsible roll - back from key climate pledge , and their failure to invest properly in renewable energy and home insulation , have leave thousand of household vulnerable to fuel poverty as another winter approach . the failure to move forward at pace in decarbonise our industry , our transport and our home have leave we need to take difficult decision . we support the need , recognise by the Climate Change Committee , for at - scale , long - term investment in CCS , particularly for hard - to - decarbonise industry such as chemical , cement and steel manufacturing . we would like to see investment in exist industry , and we want it to meet environmental requirement . while we be discuss history , I should mention that it be my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) who launch carbon capture and storage , which be yet again cancel by the Conservatives . however , although carbon capture and storage be a key tool in reach net zero , it be also very expensive and complex , and evidence of its efficacy be still scant . understandably , as the Secretary of State mention , there be much concern about the focus on incentivising industry to invest in CCS as an alternative to radically reduce their emission . therefore , it be important that the Government set out clearly and transparently the path to delivery for any CCS they invest in and show the milestone for progress . what will the Secretary of State do to increase investment — order . I call the Secretary of State . may I begin by welcome the hon . Lady to her place , and thank she for the tone and substance of her remark ? she be right to underline the fact that we be mark a new era but also mark the passing of an era , and it be right to pay tribute to all the people who work in our coal - fire power station and , indeed , who work underground to dig coal for our country . it be a big moment of change and the passing of an era . on the hon . Lady ' s broad point about CCS , my philosophy be that we want zero - carbon power where possible , but we also need carbon capture , particularly for hard - to - abate sector and so that we can have not unabated gas , but gas with CCS or hydrogen power . she raise the question of cost . imagine if we have have this conversation 15 year ago , when I be Secretary of State and much young — 15 year young , to be precise . [ interruption . ] yes , I be good at math . some people be say at the time , " why be you subsidise offshore wind ? it can never be competitive with fossil fuel . " now , it be among the cheap technology to build and operate . that be what deployment do for we , and that be what the combination of public and private sector work together do for we . yes , there be an investment here , but a far - sighted , forward - look Government have to make such investment , and I welcome the hon . Lady ' s support . I have rather hope that my right hon . friend be go to start his statement by say , " as I be say before I be so rudely interrupted — " . I have wait so long to hear a Secretary of State make such announcement from the Dispatch Box , and I be delighted . however , my right hon . friend know that carbon capture technology reduce the energy intensity of fossil fuel by up to 25 % , which make such electricity much more expensive than that produce from renewable . can the Secretary of State confirm that CCUS will be use not simply to allow the continued extraction of fossil fuel for our power sector , but only for the hard - to - abate heavy industry and for the production of green hydrogen , thereby keep domestic fuel bill low and deliver on this Government ' s commitment to decarbonise our power sector by 2030 through much cheap renewable and nuclear , not more expensive gas with CCUS ? finally , may I caution he against swallow too much of the hype around blue hydrogen ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; he speak with great knowledge and expertise on these issue . he be absolutely right about the hard - to - abate sector . I say to he what I say to the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) : there be a role for both blue hydrogen and gas with CCUS , but that be within the context of a primarily renewable - base system that use nuclear as well . it go back to the point about need all the technology at our disposal if we be to surmount the challenge we face . the Secretary of State will be aware that the Humber area produce the most emission in the country , and it be vital that we make progress in that region . some £ 15 billion - worth of private investment stand ready . the Secretary of State mention that there will be a further announcement in the come month . could he perhaps advance that as quickly as possible in order that we can take our first step towards reach our target ? let I say to the hon . Gentleman that this be a point of agreement between we . these be very important project , and I thank he for his question . they be always envisage as be two track , and we inherit a significant degree of delay from the last government . we want these project to happen as soon as possible and , as I say in my statement , this be something that we will address in the month ahead . I be happy to hear the Secretary of State ' s word last week when he say that industry should not die , and the Government investment in Merseyside and Teesside be most welcome . can he commit to the same level of bold and transformative Government action to retain the Grangemouth refinery worker ’ job , as they face the prospect of redundancy and their industry die ? this be something that my hon . friend and I have talk about . on Grangemouth , we be advance at speed — in a way that the last government completely fail to do , because the project have not even start — with Project Willow , which be seek an industrial future for the Grangemouth site . he have my absolute commitment that we will use every lever at our disposal in Government to try and make this happen . we have a number of lever available to we that the last Government do not have , include the national wealth fund , and we be go to work intensively on that in the come month . the Secretary of State will know that until a few day ago , the Fawley refinery and chemical complex run by ExxonMobil in New Forest East be plan a major carbon capture project that involve controversial pipeline either over sensitive area of the New Forest or across the Isle of Wight . ExxonMobil have temporarily pull the plug on that , but one reason it seem to think it can not use a sea route , perhaps to feed this in to the North sea outlet for carbon capture and storage , be the absence of purpose - build ship for the safe transportation of liquefy co2 . will the Secretary of State look into where we be with the development of safe method of transport the gas in liquid form by sea ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I talk to the UK chair of ExxonMobil last week about this issue , and I believe that the Minister of State , Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) , be go to meet he later this week . for the benefit of the House , this be not in either track 1 or track 2 — it be part of the solent cluster — but we want all the project to go ahead and the Solent cluster have real potential and be an important part of this . the UK chair tell I that this temporary pause be certainly nothing to do with the action of this Government , but , frankly , be to do with the time it have take the previous Government to get go on this . I undertake to the right hon . Gentleman that we will continue our dialogue with the company about these issue , include on the more technical issue that he be talk about . this announcement be fantastic news for the north - east and for the country . it will place we at the forefront of a critical and grow sector , it will help to re - industrialise region that have be de - industrialise by successive conservative Governments and it will deliver thousand of well - pay job — job that people can raise a family on . for the benefit of those with genuine concern about the feasibility of this technology — as oppose to those play party politic with innovation or those ideologically oppose to industry — will my right hon . friend say a little more about the world - lead research and innovation that will carry on alongside this deployment , and particularly about the carbon storage research facility and the work that it will do ? my hon . friend speak with great knowledge of this subject . she be unusual in this House , in that she be an engineer by background and actually know about these issue . she be absolutely right about this . our world - lead scientist and engineer be a crucial part of our play a world - lead role in this technology . I also say to those who be worried about the risk of this technology that the much , much great risk be in not act . the risk before we be the climate crisis that grow every day , and it be the right thing to do to get CCS moving . I welcome what the Secretary of State say about there be more news to come about Scotland , because the Acorn project be not a track 1 project ; it be a track 2 project . the previous Prime Minister visit Peterhead and raise hope that there might be investment come there , but then nothing . the Secretary of State also speak about the great skill that we have in oil engineering . there be possibly nowhere else in Europe , and perhaps the world , that have more of those skill than the north - east of Scotland , so can he tell we how commit the Government be to bring forward Acorn as quickly as possible ? I concur completely with what the hon . Lady say . we be absolutely committed to Acorn ; it be very important . we come into Government with track 1 not account for , so part of the challenge be get track 1 over the line because it just seem so important to send a signal that there be not go to be more of the dither and delay that we have see . I can absolutely assure she and other scottish colleague across the House that this be of fundamental importance to we . it be of fundamental importance for Scotland but also for the whole of the United Kingdom , because we will not be able to surmount the challenge we face simply with track 1 project . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement today . could he say a bit more about how this important project will sit alongside other investment in green energy as we move towards the 2030 and 2050 target ? could he also explain more about the potential for job creation across the country in a wide range of industry and region ? my hon . friend be entirely right . this be part of a whole set of thing this government be do , include lift the onshore wind ban , release private investment and deal with solar project that have frankly be sit on desk for far too long , with nearly 2 GW consent . in fact , more have be consent in nationally consent project in three month of this Government than in 14 year of the last government . Doesn ' t that tell a story about dither , delay and inaction ? so my hon . friend be absolutely right . this be part of a whole series of investment , both private and public , that this Government be unleash and put in . I be pleased that there be an announcement on the funding of blue hydrogen at Ellesmere Port , but what about Bacton , the gas terminal in north Norfolk ? what be the Secretary of State ' s plan to support blue hydrogen project at Bacton , which would be ideally suit for the southern North sea ? also , have look at the number , which seem a bit light , could he please confirm that it be still government policy that we should capture and store between 20 and 30 megaton of co2 by 2030 ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , that be very much part of our plan for the future . on his second point , we will obviously set out all those detail in response to the work of the Climate Change Committee . frankly , one thing that we be struggle with be the delay under the last government . I have set out the impact of this project and will be set out the impact of future project when they be announce . may I put on record my thank to the Secretary of State and his wide team , who have decide in such difficult economic time to invest in my part of the country ? this mark a huge vote of confidence in our local industry leader and our fantastic regional workforce , and as he say , it have be a long time come . do he agree that this carbon capture project will create exciting , skilled job and opportunity for people in Darlington and the Tees valley , solidify a green industrial future for my constituency ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and for her brilliant advocacy on this issue . she raise an important point , which be that people will look at this investment and think that it be a big investment , albeit over 25 year . be it the right thing to do for the country ? emphatically , yes . it be right for our industry and for the industry of the future , because the transport and storage network be absolutely crucial , not just for the specific project I have announce but for future project , for our security as a country and for job in our industrial heartland . I thank she for her advocacy and we will keep move forward on this . the Secretary of State say he be absolutely committed to the Acorn project . well , the way to show that would be to fund it , because yet again the UK Government have fail to announce funding for carbon capture utilisation and storage project in Scotland . this be a disaster economically , industrially and environmentally . I be sure he will agree that without Acorn , the UK can not meet its net zero target and will miss they by some margin . the last Tory Government fail to back this project in Scotland for year , and despite offer change , Labour have do exactly the same thing , follow the same path with broadly the same budget and prioritise less developed , less substantial and less deliverable project in England while offer the scottish cluster no funding at all to date . People in Scotland remember well how eager the Treasury and the Westminster Government be to get their hand on revenue from North sea oil and gas . when will we see that return with investment from Westminster into the north - east of Scotland to support the Acorn project ? I be sorry about the hon . Gentleman ' s tone , but it be entirely predictable . he know that there have always be two track . this Government have move at speed to fund track 1 , and I have make absolutely clear our commitment to Acorn and track 2 . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s announcement of major investment in carbon capture in our industrial heartland , include in Merseyside . Knowsley host significant industrial capacity and have huge potential to contribute to this . can the Secretary of State provide detail and meet I to discuss how Knowsley will benefit from investment in the thousand of good , secure job expect under this scheme ? my hon . friend be entirely right . the challenge for the Government , and for the company that have win these contract , be to make sure that we create job in the supply chain , include in her constituency . I look forward to meet she to discuss this . waste incinerator release , on average , a tonne of co2 for every tonne of waste incinerate . they be usually call " energy from waste " but their environmental value be questionable unless carbon capture be attach . yes , we need to recycle more , but energy from waste will be with we for year to come . will the Secretary of State commit to significantly scale up carbon capture for energy from waste plant ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right , and it be why one of the project we fund be an energy from waste project . this be exactly the kind of role that CCS can play . I be grateful for my right hon . friend ' s engagement on this issue . Labour Members from across the Tees valley , especially our friend Alex Cunningham , have be press for many year to secure carbon capture , utilisation and storage . give the dithering of the conservative party , we have become increasingly anxious that the final investment decision would not be align and that the opportunity to invest in this critical project would be lose . it be a testament to this Labour Government that it have be deliver so early after enter office . so that we can use this precious investment , will my right hon . friend , along with his Business and Trade and Education colleague , meet hon . member from across the Tees valley to discuss how we can secure the well - pay job , apprenticeship and training that we need ? I pay tribute to Alex Cunningham and my hon . friend for be tireless advocate . he make such an important point . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) , we must ensure that the job we be deliver get to the people and place that have not see such opportunity for far too long . I look forward to meet my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) to discuss this far . give the Chancellor ' s rhetoric about black hole , it be perhaps a little surprising that the Government have manage to magic £ 22 billion for this , but I wish the Secretary of State well . I hope his plan work . do he share my concern that , in do this , we will reduce the drive to decarbonise industry , just as the use of waste incinerator have reduce the imperative to reduce , reuse and recycle waste , include in Westbury in my constituency ? I respect the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , although I do not agree . first , this be a long - term investment in the country ' s future , and I think the Chancellor be far - sighted in recognise its importance . secondly , there be hard - to - abate industry that , without carbon capture , will find it very hard to enter a decarbonised world . we have to protect those industry , but I agree that , where industry can decarbonise without CCS , of course we want they to do so . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , and I congratulate the trade union , community and campaigner that have campaign for this for so long . his leadership stand in stark contrast with the asset - stripping of job , hope and investment that we have see in too many of our industrial heartland . do he agree that carbon capture be about not just net zero or boost cluster area , but boost job , skill and future in the supply chain in community such as mine in Peterborough and across the country ? my hon . friend always speak with great eloquence on these issue , and he be completely right . when we talk about the transition to clean energy create the job of the future , and about it be the great economic opportunity of the 21st century , we have to show that it can actually happen . the problem with the last Government be that , although they use that rhetoric at time , they never actually deliver . today , we be show the difference . as the Secretary of State will be aware , the vast majority of carbon capture and storage pilot and demonstration project that have be commission worldwide have be cancel or put on hold . I be concerned that the Government be put so much money — £ 22 billion — into an unproven technology . I understand that the track 1 project be about new gas power station and blue hydrogen , about which the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) have already express concern because they be fossil fuel technology . will the Secretary of State rule out invest any of this £ 22 billion in new fossil fuel , lock the UK into new fossil fuel production ? will he instead consider a major scaling up of natural carbon capture through major investment in the restoration of woodland , peatland and wetland ? it be early , but I worry about the hon . Gentleman ' s opposition to new grid infrastructure , so goodness know what will happen to the renewable . he also oppose carbon capture , so goodness know what will happen to the hard - to - abate industry . I be all in favour of investing in woodland , but we need all of these thing . I want to be generous to the Green party — [ interruption . ] I be a generous person , and I be sure the Green party have the good of intention , but the scale of the transition mean this country need all of these technology . it be not about choose to invest in the woodland and not invest in grid infrastructure or CCS . I urge the hon . gentleman to think about this , because we need all of these technology . I welcome the Government ' s announcement on move forward with the track 1 project , which will create thousand of well - pay job , attract inward investment and accelerate we towards net zero . with the closure of the blast furnace at Port Talbot , the two large carbon emitter in Wales be now in my Mid and South Pembrokeshire constituency , but they have no access to pipeline CO2 transport . what measure be the Secretary of State take to encourage the decarbonisation of site such as those in Pembrokeshire , which rely on non - pipeline solution for CO2 transport , to achieve a just transition ? my hon . Friend also speak with customary eloquence on these issue . this be potentially an important part of the solution . we owe a debt to the worker at Port Talbot , and we must ensure that we leave no stone unturned in look to the future . I look forward to continue these discussion with he . the Secretary of State have boast about spend £ 27 billion of public money on carbon capture and storage , and on promote what he call renewable energy . do he feel any sense of irony in take £ 27 billion from a financial black hole and put it into a carbon - absorb black hole ? do he not recognise that his own green policy be generate the very co2 he condemn ? the Drax B power station need american forest to be chop down and bring halfway around the world to be burn , emit co2 , at a cost of £ 1 billion a year in subsidy . in Northern Ireland , we be tear up thousand of acre of pristine upland bogland to erect windmill , and Scotland have already cut down 17 million carbon - absorb tree to make space for windmill . I know the Secretary of State be keen on modelling , but have his model tell he how many carbon capture and storage facility will be need to offset the carbon impact of his green policy ? I will let the House into a secret : the conversation — if I can put it that way — between myself and the right hon . Gentleman go back to 2008 or 2009 , when he be shadow I , so this be a long - run saga , and I fear I will not convince he . I disagree with he on so many level that it be hard to listen . I respect his point of view , but I think we will not agree . this government have show in the last three month what can be achieve by reject the climate denialism that the last government often seem at risk of slide into . however , this announcement be important because it underline the opportunity we have to also reject climate delivery denialism — the idea that we can somehow make the transition to net zero work without make big , bold investment or by focus only on narrow solution that align with our ideological priority . the International Energy Agency and the Climate Change Committee could not be clear : ccus be not just an economic opportunity for this country , but a scientific necessity if we be to meet our climate target . will the Secretary of State therefore leave no stone unturned and no opportunity off the table , do everything we can not just to deliver on our target , but to ensure that we make the most of the opportunity to reindustrialise part of this country that have be neglect for far too long ? my hon . friend make such an important point . I be with the Prime Minister in New York in the last couple of week , talk to international partner about where the new British Government stand , and there be a sense that british leadership be back . however , if I have say to they , " we can ' t do carbon capture ; that ' s just not an answer , " they would have say , " well , what be we go to do about our industry ? " my hon . friend be absolutely right : we need to have all the solution at our disposal , both for british leadership and for global decarbonisation . the Secretary of State will know that it be vital that we reduce our global greenhouse gas emission if we be to avoid the bad ravage of a climate crisis that be already manifest . give that this deal risk incentivise hard - to - abate business to continue with business as usual , will he outline what step the Government intend to take to ensure that those industry also invest in reduce their emission ? I welcome the hon . member to the House . we have all kind of project in place to encourage business to decarbonise ; indeed , our drive for clean power by 2030 be part of ensure that we decarbonise the electricity system to help business to be part of the decarbonisation journey . however , I just do not recognise the picture that he paint — that this proposal be somehow a disincentive for company . I hear lot of business ask how they be go to exist , frankly , in a decarbonised world . what be the answer , for example , for the cement industry in a decarbonised world ? that be why CCS be so vital . I be so pleased to be part of a new era of clean energy investment , with carbon capture in the north - east and the very successful recent renewable auction . the Secretary of State have be to see our critical mineral , float offshore wind potential and geothermal potential in Cornwall . will he please confirm that the industrial strategy and renewable will be truly UK - wide and will span from Scotland and the north - east down to the west and Cornwall , with a clear pipeline of investment opportunity in order to give certainty to developer in , for example , float offshore wind in the Celtic sea ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as I have say before in the House , Cornwall have a crucial role to play in our clean energy future . she be a brilliant champion for Cornwall and for float wind . as she say , there be huge opportunity , and we look forward to work with she to make it happen . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s enthusiasm for decarbonisation and carbon capture , particularly in heavy industry , include cement . however , the track 1 project include new gas power station and new blue hydrogen , which will carry a huge greenhouse gas penalty cause by upstream methane emission . will the Secretary of State therefore commit to review the full - lifecycle greenhouse gas emission for any project before it go to a full investment decision ? that be indeed do as part of this . I gently say to some of those ask I this question that this Government have a world - lead position on no new oil and gas licence , and that position be recognise around the world . I say to the hon . member — this go back to what I have say throughout this statement — that we need everything as part of the mix . that be why we be go to keep exist field in the North sea open for their lifespan — for decade to come — and that be part of the energy mix . of course we be go to move off oil and gas ; indeed , we have a science - base position on this issue , unlike the last government . but this do need to be a transition , and that be what we be go to make happen . I strongly welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State ' s commitment to deliver for Teesside and to deliver thousand of good green job in clean industry — delivery after year of delay . he mention Solent early , and he know the risk that delay can pose to CCUS and to job . do he therefore agree that it be absurd for the conservative party to try to claim credit for this proposal after fail to deliver for 14 year , fail to commit any resource and leave our industry in the lurch ? my hon Friend be absolutely right . the last Government cancel the project twice , which tell we all we need to know about they . I have forget about the second cancellation ; I actually have to check — I could not believe that they have cancel it not just once but twice . that be go some . after three month , here be the reality : they talk , we act . the Secretary of State will know that investment in these ccus project would not be possible without the private investment generate from our oil and gas company . in the light of that , of he again confirm his policy on no new licence and of other policy that be set to close down the North sea , how will he ensure that that private investment continue so that more ccus project come forward in the future ? I listen to what oil and gas company such as BP and Equinor say : they warmly welcome this announcement . frankly , there be a sigh of relief ; after year of promise and delay , we finally have a Government get this do . ten million pensioner will find it utterly extraordinary that this government can find over £ 20 billion when they can not find £ 1 billion to fund the winter fuel payment . that be £ 20 billion to invest in what the Secretary of State have today admit be a risky technology — I find myself in the rare position of agree with the co - leader of the Green party , the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) , on that . the extraordinary thing be that this be almost £ 1 , 000 per household . will this sum of taxpayer ' money be add to general taxation , when taxis be already at record high , or will it be add to our energy bill , which the Secretary of State have promise will be bring down ? let we be absolutely clear about this , because that be a significant intervention from the hon . Gentleman . here we have what claim to be the party of work people oppose job for work people right across the country . that say all we need to know about the hon . gentleman : outside this House , he pretend to be in favour of good industrial job for Britain ; in this House , he oppose they . I welcome the announcement that have be make , but the Acorn project in St Fergus , between Fraserburgh and Peterhead in my constituency , have be wait for year , follow a promise of jam tomorrow from the last lot . opposition colleague have ask for a definitive statement regard progress on the project . I know that it be a track 2 project , but I be deeply impressed by the extent to which the Secretary of State be prepared to move thing forward rapidly , so can he please give we some sort of timescale for the Acorn project today ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the tone of his question . I do understand that , just as track 1 be lead a merry dance by the last government , so too be track 2 . the current Government have be in power for three month . we be move at speed , and we have get track 1 over the line . these be obviously decision that the Chancellor will have to make in the spending review , for reason the hon . Gentleman will understand . I just say to he that we be absolutely committed to track 2 , include Acorn . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , but carbon capture can be do in a number of way . anaerobic digestion plant , for example , produce as much co2 as methane , which can be ducte into greenhouse to produce big tomato , cucumber and lettuce . will such natural carbon capture be include in the project , thereby help to enhance our food security ? I be all in favour of big tomato and improve our food security . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about the potential use of CCUS . on Friday , we be at a glass factory that will be use hydrogen from a new project and will be the beneficiary of a decarbonise supply . I look forward to further discussion with the hon . Gentleman . and the final word go to Jim Shannon . maybe not the final word , Madam Deputy Speaker , as that will be for the Secretary of State . I welcome the statement , in which he rightly underline that anybody who ignore carbon capture , use and storage do so at their peril , and the Government ' s commitment to carbon capture . while the amount set aside be incredible , so too be the requirement that every penny bring an achievement . how will the Secretary of State ensure that each region of the United Kingdom be involve in this net gain ? I say to he gently that Northern Ireland be not mention in his statement ; I be sure he will address that issue . there must be accountability to ensure the realisation of environmental goal , rather than simply the aspiration of achieve they . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I hope he have a conversation with his right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) — [ interruption . ] I see the right hon . member do not want to talk to he right now . a good point to end on be the fact that , of course , job will be create in certain part of the United Kingdom , but the measure announce will benefit supply chain across the whole United Kingdom . this Government look forward to ensure that happen . NHS performance : Darzi Investigation I beg to move , that this House have consider Lord Darzi ' s independent investigation into NHS performance . I be pleased to have the opportunity to open this debate on Lord Darzi ' s investigation into the national health service , not just so that we can debate the past and what go so badly wrong , but so that the House can also debate the future of our NHS , how it need to change and the many reason to be optimistic about what our health service can be . we have to start with honesty . for too long , conservative Governments sweep problem under the carpet , more interested in scapegoat than solution . [ interruption . ] I know ; it be terrible . that be why I ask Lord Darzi to conduct an independent investigation into our national health service . he be an eminent cancer surgeon , with 30 year ' experience in the NHS , yet what he find shock even he : some 100 , 000 toddler and baby be leave wait for six hour in A & E last year ; more than one in 10 hospital bed be take up by patient who do not need to be there ; child be less healthy today than they be a decade ago ; adult be live long but get sicker soon ; condition such as diabete and high blood pressure be rise relentlessly ; mortality from preventable cause be far high than in other advanced country ; almost 3 million people be off work sick ; and waiting list be at record high while patient satisfaction be at a record low . the fundamental promise of the NHS — that it will be there for we when we need it — have be break for a decade . why ? because of four knock - out blow . first , a decade of under - investment mean NHS staff be force to use pager and fax machine , with few cancer scanner than Greece and building literally crumble . that be not to mention the disgrace that the previous Government ' s new hospital programme be write accord to fictitious timetable , with the funding run out this come March . secondly , there be Andrew Lansley ' s disastrous 2012 top - down reorganisation that nobody vote for , cost billion and take year . it be an enormous waste of time , talent and money that should have be spend on care for patient . thirdly , there be a failure to reform . the reform make by the last Labour Government , which deliver the short waiting time and high patient satisfaction in history , be ditch — a golden inheritance squander . fourthly , there be coronavirus . Lord Darzi find that the NHS be hit hard than any other comparable healthcare system because of the damage the Tories have already do . it be not just that they do not fix the roof when the sun be shine ; they douse the house in petrol , leave the gas on and covid just light the match . that be why million be stick on waiting list , ambulance do not arrive on time and people can not see their gp . never forgive , never forget and never let the Tories do it again . Lord Darzi ' s report be utterly damn about the treatment of child in our health system . he say that too many child be be let down , and point out that they account for 24 % of the population , but only 11 % of NHS expenditure , and that over 100 , 000 child wait for over a year to be assess for mental health treatment . he say we must do well , so will the Secretary of State commit to put child front and centre of the 10 - year plan , and to make they a priority , because for a decade , the Tories let our child down ? I strongly agree with the hon . member . I will talk about the 10 - year plan shortly , but I can guarantee that child and paediatric care will be front and centre of that plan . we can do much more to shine a spotlight on paediatric waiting list , as well as do much more in practice . she mention child and young people ' s mental health , on which our party strongly agree . we will deliver our manifesto commitment to put mental health support in every primary and secondary school in the country , as well as provide walk - in service in every community , so that young people receive the mental health and wellbeing support that they need and do not get to the crisis point reach by far too many of our child . the hon . member ' s intervention be an example of why I be look forward to the debate . I hope to listen to contribution and to challenge from all side of the House . before I take any intervention from Conservative Members , I advise they that if they want to get a hearing on the NHS ever again , then the first word that should pass their lip be , " sorry " . only last week , at the Conservative party conference , we do not see a single shred of remorse or contrition for their appalling record . indeed , when it come to the shadow Secretary of State and her party , it seem that sorry be the hard word . the NHS be break . nhs staff do not want to accept that , but it be . accord to YouGov , that be what the vast majority of patient say . it be also what staff tell I every time I be on the frontline , but I understand why some people find the word difficult . in the past few week , I have meet some of the NHS team who happen to be on duty on Monday 29 July . I have listen to paramedic describe the scene they walk into at the community centre in Southport . child and adult who have be dance to Taylor Swift be lie bleed and , in some case , tragically die as a result of an unimaginable , senseless , mindless attack . those paramedic have to make split - second decision about who to treat and in what order to give the injure the good chance of survival . security team clear busy hospital corridor to shield as many people as possible from the horror . lab team mobilise blood supply . receptionist field call from panic - stricken patient . surgical team across multiple hospital work together , fight to save those young life . even now , month later , mental health staff be pick up the piece for family who be either grieve or go through the unimaginable challenge of support their child through what they witness . on that day , those NHS responder — the whole team involve — be the good of humanity confront the bad . that be who nhs staff be . that be what they do . let I be clear : the NHS may be break , but NHS staff do not break it . I want to be clear about this too : what be break can be fix . while the NHS may be in the midst of the bad crisis in its history , the big asset that we have be the people who work in it . they be up for the challenge , and up for change . the NHS be break , but it be not beat . together with the 1 . 5 million people work in the health service , this Government will turn our NHS around , get it back on its foot , and make it fit for the future . across my constituency , my constituent be struggle to see the GPs they need ; indeed , we see that across the whole nation . on Friday , I visit the Park View surgery , where the GPs do not have the necessary resource and can not move into the premise that they need to be in to treat their patient . can the Secretary of State assure I that he will follow Lord Darzi ' s recommendation and invest in primary care , so that my constituent get the GPs they need and the Park View surgery can move into the premise that it need , with the capital expenditure that it require ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . of course it be not just in Loughborough that we have a challenge with access to general practice ; it be right across the country . I want to be clear , because GPs come in for a lot of criticism : primary care may be break , and the front door to the NHS may be break , but GPs do not break it . in fact , there be few gps now than there be in 2015 , yet they be provide more appointment . they have work hard to improve the productivity of general practice , but they be under - resource . that be why we be committed , as I tell the Royal College of GPs just last week , to deliver the shift that we need out of hospital and into the community — to grow primary care , include general practice , as a proportion of the NHS ' s budget , so that we have the GPs need to treat patient on time . Saturday be World Meningitis Day , but in the last year we have see an almost doubling of meningitis case in the UK . do the Secretary of State think that the meningitis vaccination take - up rate be where it should be ? I be grateful to the hon . member for her question . no , I do not think that the take - up rate be where it should be . that be why in the short time we have be in office we have put more effort and energy into vaccine take - up , but there be more to do . I welcome she to the House , and will not have a go at she for the record of the people who sit on the Government Benches just before the general election . at the end of September , a large GP federation serve patient across Sussex suddenly go bust , cause 130 redundancy ; patient care be severely affect . the federation report that the cause be a failure to obtain long - term contract from any of its major client , and the erosion of the real - term value of contract with both primary care network and NHS Sussex . do the Secretary of State agree that protect continuity of service be key to public confidence in primary care , and will he meet I to discuss this case ? I be grateful to the hon . member for her intervention . I wish that this be a challenge only in her constituency ; it be a challenge right across the country . as I say to the Royal College of GPs last week , it will take time to rebuild general practice , so that it be back where we want it to be . we would be delighted to hear more from she ; I will ensure that my Department make contact , and that a Minister be in touch about the challenge in her constituency . I thank the Secretary of State for today ' s debate . the whole House , and indeed the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , wish he well in bring forward the change that we wish to see . an issue that come to my attention regularly be research and development . we hear in the press every day about new advance in treat diabete , heart disease , cancer , Alzheimer ' s , dementia and rare disease . when we look at the big picture of the NHS , we see the big problem , but sometimes there be small issue . will he reassure we that research and development will be encourage ? I strongly agree . although health be devolve , I look forward to work constructively and closely with government right across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , because every part of the health system in every part of the UK be go through challenge . we be determined to do that . [ interruption . ] I think the hon . Member want to come in again . National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recommendation go from here to Northern Ireland , and then we endorse they ; if we do not get they from here to start with , we can not make people well . that be the point that I be try to make . the hon . member ' s point be take . the NHS stand at a fork in the road . there be a choice before we , and the party represent in the House have different opinion on the good way forward . the first option be for the NHS to continue on its current path — to head down the road to ruin , on a mismanage decline , with a status quo so poor that patient be force to raid their saving to go private , and with the bad yet to come , because many Opposition member believe that all patient should have to put their hand in their pocket when they fall ill . Reform UK have openly state that it want to change the funding model and replace it with an insurance - base system , and plenty in the conservative party want to head in the same direction , chase Reform UK down the hard - right rabbit hole . that be nonsense . the shadow Secretary of State say that it be nonsense . she be very upset about it , so let I point out to she that early this year , the conservative former dentistry Minister , who serve in her team , under her leadership , propose a monthly £ 10 insurance fee to see a dentist . that be what the Conservatives be plan before the election . [ interruption . ] if the hon . Member want to intervene , I will give way . I will happily intervene . that be simply incorrect . there be a couple of point that the Secretary of State have make that be completely wrong , which I will have to correct in my speech . he be no long in opposition . he need to be careful what he say on the record . that be not right . honestly , Madam Deputy Speaker , " brass neck " spring to mind . once again , the hon . member get to her foot and fail to say the word " sorry " . if she want to correct the record , how about she stand up and correct the abysmal record that she and her predecessor lumber this country with ? they take the NHS from be the very good — that be how it be leave in 2010 — to be the very bad ; that be how she inherit it . if she want to talk about humility , she might like to start demonstrate some before her time in Parliament come to an end . if the hon . Member want to distance herself from her former dentistry Minister , let we turn to the candidate seek to lead her party who be head and shoulder above the rest with its membership , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) . she want to go even far . on whether the NHS should be free at the point of use , she tell the Times last month : " I think we need to have a serious cross - party , national conversation . " that be what she say about whether the NHS should be free at the point of use . I suspect that she have blame the journalist for her own word since , but just so that Government Members be clear , that will happen over my dead body . this Labour Government will always defend our NHS as a public service that be free at the point of use , so that whenever someone fall ill , they never have to worry about the bill . the problem be not , and have never be , the fair , equitable model of funding . it be the same model that we have in 2010 , when the last Labour Government deliver the short waiting time and high patient satisfaction in history . a universal , single - payer health service be the fair , most equitable way to provide healthcare . More than that , in a way that could never have be predict in 1948 by Attlee and Bevan , it make the NHS the well place healthcare system in the world for the revolution take place in genomic , technology and life science . the NHS have the right funding model , but it be not take advantage of the opportunity in front of it . that be what we need to change . under the previous Government , poor investment and a lack of respect for NHS worker , particularly in primary care , result in Portsmouth North have over 3 , 000 patient per GP . that have result in over 1 , 800 people wait more than a month to see a gp . despite that , Lord Darzi note that many of the solution can be find in part of the NHS in our constituency . will the Secretary of State acknowledge the fantastic initiative and hard work of GPs in Portsmouth North , as they work alongside trainee GPs from King ' s College London , and look to push that across the country ? my hon . friend be right . in Portsmouth and right across the country , there be people who , against the backdrop of the previous Government , have none the less try to innovate , do thing differently and improve service for patient . especially give that they send she to represent they here in Parliament , I be sure they be relieve that they now have a Labour Government on their side . chapter 5 of Lord Darzi ' s report be about where and how the money should be spend . I know from previous experience that there be a lot of money that can be spend in the national health service , but do the Secretary of State agree that we have to invest to save ? we can not simply move about the money that we currently have in the health service . investment be need to allow we to go into the great detail that Lord Darzi talk about in respect of move from analogue to digital and from primary care back into the community . that need investment ; it can not be do simply with the budget that be there . I strongly agree with the former Minister . I will take that as a representation for the forthcoming Budget and spending review , and ensure that his comment be send straight to my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury . without pre - empte future fiscal event , we have be clear for some time that it be investment and reform that deliver result . that be how the last Labour Government deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . if people be in any doubt about what investment minus reform do , they need only look at what Darzi say about our hospital : after 2019 , lot of resource be pour in , particularly in relation to staffing , but productivity fall . it be investment and reform that deliver result , and this Labour Government will deliver both . one of the moment before the last general election that I will never forget be turn up at Milton Keynes hospital with my 91 - year - old grandmother , who we suspect be have a heart attack , only to be tell that the average waiting time at that moment be nine and a half hour . Milton Keynes have some of the long NHS waiting list in the country , because of the damage do by the last Tory Government . do my right hon . friend agree that we all deserve an apology from the Conservatives , not just for the state they leave our NHS in , but for go into the election promise a new hospital for Milton Keynes even though they clearly do not have a plan to deliver it ? I be delighted to visit Milton Keynes hospital with my hon . friend before the general election . it be do incredible work in the condition that he describe ; in particular , its innovation in the application of smart , everyday , practical technology to improve patient ' experience be to be commend . I share my hon . friend ' s anger , his constituent ' anger and the anger of people right across the country in every community — include mine , by the way , where a hospital upgrade be promise . we be tell there be a plan and a timetable , and we be tell that the programme be fully fund . then we come into government to find that the timetable be a work of fiction and that the funding run out in March . that be something else that the shadow Secretary of State should apologise for , and I look forward to hear her apology . People across the country be owe an apology . let I say to every hon . member who be in the same position that I , my hon . friend and people across the country be in that we will not play fast and loose with the public ' s trust , and we will come forward with a plan for the upgrade of hospital that be credible , achievable and fund . that be the difference between the way that this Labour Government will behave , in term of both public trust and public money , and the way that the previous Conservative Government behave , which be a total disgrace . on top of come clean to the public and make a change from the way the previous Government treat the country , will the Secretary of State also assure the House that the Government will establish a proper , effective and honest workforce plan ? after the year of Johnsonian bluster , when there be no effective workforce plan , the nurse who be the backbone of the NHS be still be pay £ 29 , 000 a year at grade 5 . as the Royal College of Nursing say , it be about retention of staff , not just recruitment . they be leave in drove because they can not stand the unsafe circumstance in which they be operate . the hon . member be right to raise the issue of recruitment and retention . my message to staff who be think of leave the NHS , or who perhaps have leave the NHS in recent year because of work condition and because there be no light at the end of the tunnel , be to stay — or indeed return — and help we to be the generation that take the NHS from the bad crisis in its history , get it back on its foot and ensure that it be fit for the future . on the workforce plan , let I just say that it be regrettable that it be only at 5 minute to midnight that the previous Government publish such a plan . we be highly flatter by the fact that so much that underpin that plan be Labour party policy commitment , such as double the number of medical school place and increase the number of nursing and midwifery clinical training place . we be committed to those headline commitment . we will inevitably want to update the workforce plan in the light of the 10 - year plan and some of the analysis that underpin Darzi . we be clear that that kind of long - term workforce planning be essential , and we be committed — rise — I must make some progress ; I will try to take more intervention shortly . the public be clear that they do not want the NHS to be sacrifice . they give Labour our marching order at the general election to rescue the NHS and turn it around , and that be what we will do . I appreciate that the shadow Health Secretary must be embarrass by all this , not just by the state that she and her conservative predecessor leave the NHS in , but by what Conservative member have be say . I be go to say , " member who be sit behind she , " but they be actually not — I think they be hide in shame . [ interruption . ] the shadow Health Secretary say from a sedentary position that we have already have this discussion . the Conservatives would rather we just move on and forget their abysmal record . well , I be afraid that we be not ready to do that just yet . at least some of her Back Benchers now say what they refuse to say when they be in office : that the NHS be break . some of they even admit that only Labour can fix it . when the shadow Secretary of State stand up , I wonder whether she can tell we whether she agree with the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , who say : " I applaud Wes Streeting for have the political courage . I think only Labour can really say this . the NHS be sort of their thing … I really hope that we can get behind he " . it be not just Back Benchers . what about the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) ? he say : " I ' m very supportive of what Wes Streeting be say … the conservative government put a lot of money into the NHS , the record be there for all to see … I ' m not one of those who be seek to attack … the Labour Party on the NHS . " he be go for my vote , but sadly — or gladly — I be not qualified to vote in that particular election . perhaps the shadow Health Secretary can tell we what the shadow Foreign Secretary mean when he say we be not — [ interruption . ] she be clearly enjoy this . be the shadow Foreign Secretary speak for the shadow Cabinet ? [ interruption . ] no , he be not . let I move to my favourite comment on the NHS from a Tory MP . this right hon . Member say : " we be not obsess with how we can ensure that it actually deliver the experience that patient actually deserve … out of fear of our opponent mischaracterise our effort , we shirk the difficult decision … if Wes Streeting come forward with genuine reform I think we should back he . " those be the word of the candidate that the shadow Health Secretary be back to lead her party , so do she agree with the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) ? will she finally apologise for her part in the Tories ' abysmal record and have the humility to admit that when it come to NHS reform their cupboard be bare , and that actually they quite agree with our effort to clean up the mess that they leave behind ? for all the agreement with our diagnosis and praise of our plan , the problem be that there be no apology . of the four leadership candidate and eight former Health Secretaries , not a single one have apologise for the state they leave the NHS in . would the shadow Health Secretary like to correct that record today and finally say sorry ? I expect that we might have to wait a long time . while the Conservatives continue the long leadership election in history , we be get on with the job of clean up their mess . the reform that we desperately need include the so - call " left shift " out of hospital and into primary care . yet under the previous Government , the amount of money spend on hospital go from 47 % to 58 % of the NHS budget . accord to Age UK , every day 2 , 000 people be admit to hospital who could be treat elsewhere and early . do my right hon . friend agree that the only way to fix the NHS be to get more and well care in the community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and that bring I to our reform agenda . to deliver the Government ' s reform agenda , we will have to take on both left and right - wing orthodoxy — for simplicity ' s sake , we will call they the Guardian and the Daily Mail . the Daily Mail agree on the need for health service reform , but attack proposal for public health reform as " nanny state " . the Guardian love prevention , but all this talk about health service reform make it very nervous . the truth be that the Daily Mail and the Guardian be half right and half wrong . we all need to face up to the challenge of today . our society be get old and living long but become sicker soon . those rise tide of demand and cost be combine to form a perfect storm that threaten to shipwreck the NHS . will the Secretary of State give way ? I must make progress . the right must accept that without reform on public health , we will pay a heavy price , with high taxis and poor quality of life — exactly the sort of dependency culture that the right rail against . the left must accept that investment without reform of the health service would be kill the NHS with kindness , with more cash and poor result until the public give up altogether . rise — I must make more progress . that be the choice : public health reform or high taxis ; NHS reform or no NHS . the Tories do neither ; Labour will do both . it really be reform or die , and we choose reform . that be why this month we will begin formal engagement with NHS staff and patient , who will help to write the 10 - year plan for our NHS — a plan that will deliver the change and modernisation that our health service be cry out for — with three big shift in its focus . first , a shift from hospital to community will turn the NHS into a neighbourhood health service as much as a national health service , so that patient get more of their test , scan and healthcare on high street and in town centre in their own community , and from the comfort of their own home . it will ensure that patient can easily book appointment to see the gp they want to see in the manner that they choose , and it will bring back the family doctor , rebuild NHS dentistry and build a national care service . will the Secretary of State give way ? I must make progress . there be lot of speaker and little time . secondly , there will be a shift from sickness to prevention . it will mean that we take action to give our child a healthy and happy life , flatten the curve of rise pressure that threaten to overwhelm the NHS by build a healthy society , which will help to build a healthy economy . thirdly , there will be a shift from analogue to digital . upgrade the NHS app will give patient real choice and control over their own healthcare , create a single patient record own by the patient and share across the system so that every part of the NHS have a full picture of the patient that they be treat . get the nhs work hand in glove with our country ' s lead scientist will put modern technology and equipment in the hand of NHS staff , and patient at the front of the queue for the late treatment . rise — I must begin to conclude my remark , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I see that the Chair of the Select Committee on Health and Social Care be seek my eye . give that I will be before her Committee soon and know where my bread be butter , I give way . the Secretary of State be very kind indeed . I can take no credit for what I be about to say , which come from report on prevention and digital transformation publish by the previous Select Committee , which he would do very well to look at . what those report say be very much echo in Lord Darzi ' s report — particularly that the place - base narrative about embed the NHS into our community be key , as be reform of Government as a whole , and embed health in every Department . will he say a bit more about reform in Government , and not just reform in the NHS ? I strongly agree with the Chair of the Select Committee and commend the work of the previous Committee , to which she refer . she have certainly give I some revision for the first meeting that I will attend . to answer her question , she be absolutely right that digital transformation and place - base healthcare planning be key . this government will have a much sharp focus on health inequality than the previous Government do . in fact , if we consider the NHS over the past 30 or 40 year , even when it have perform well overall , and patient in every part of the country have receive access to timely care , some health system have still be more challenge than other . we need to be honest about the structural challenge in those area . secondly , she be absolutely right that , if we be serious about health and prevention , we need a serious cross - Government approach . that be why I be delighted that the Prime Minister ' s mission - drive approach have already see department come together with a focus on prevention . that will deliver fruit . this be the major surgery that our national health service need over the next decade to make it fit for the future . there be no time to waste , so we have hit the ground run . we inherit a Care Quality Commission that be not fit for purpose . I be genuinely stunned to learn that one in five health and care provider have never be inspect ; some hospital have be leave uninspected for a decade ; and inspector be send to care home when they have never meet someone with dementia . the Conservatives do not think that patient would like the answer , so they stop ask the question . this Labour Government be different : we will be honest about the problem face the health service , and serious about solve they . our policy be radical candour . today I be delighted to announce that Sir Julian Hartley have be appoint the new chief executive of the CQC . he be a proven reformer with a track record of turn around large organisation , and I be confident that he will provide the leadership that staff in the CQC need to address this crisis , improve patient safety and restore confidence in the regulator . sunlight be the good disinfectant , so this Government be take action to turn the regulator around . that be the difference a Labour Government make . we inherit the farce of newly qualified GPs face unemployment . patient could not get a gp appointment , while GPs could not get a job , so we cut red tape , find the funding and be recruit an extra 1 , 000 GPs . that be the difference a Labour Government make . we have table a motion to ban junk food ad target at child — our first step towards make our country ' s child the healthy generation that have ever live . that be the difference a Labour Government make . just this week , the Secretary of State for Science and Technology and I announce funding to produce new cutting - edge cancer treatment : a new blood test that can detect 12 different cancer . we be back Britain ' s scientist to save life . that be the difference a Labour Government make . of course , strike in the NHS have cost taxpayer billion . patient see 1 . 5 million operation and appointment cancel . the Conservatives see strike as an opportunity to scapegoat NHS staff , so they let the strike rage on . in fact , the shadow Health Secretary have not even bother to meet the junior doctor since March . this government do not exploit problem ; we solve they . I call the junior doctor on day one and meet they in week one , and in just three week , we have negotiate a deal to end the strike . that be the difference a Labour Government make . those be just our first step . rebuild the NHS will not be easy and it will take time , but we have do it before and we will do it again . along with the million of dedicated staff in health and social care across our country , this can be the generation that take the NHS from the bad crisis in its history to build an NHS fit for the future — an NHS that be there for we when we need it , with world - class care for the many , not just the few . that be the change that Britain vote for ; that be the change we will deliver together ; and that change have already begin . before I bring in the Opposition Front Benchers , the House should be aware that over 50 member wish to speak in the debate , so I ask you to help each other . on this occasion , I will impose a three - minute limit on Back - Bench speech , with the exception of maiden speech and that of the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on this , the first anniversary of Hamas ' s horrific attack on Israel , our thought be with Israel , the victim of that horrific attack and their loved one , and with all those who be try to rescue the hostage , get aid where it be need and bring peace to the region . day 95 of this fumbling Labour Government , and yet another general debate to talk about a report that we talk about three week ago . that seem to be the golden — or Gray — thread run through this government : lot of talk , but where be the action ? if the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care want to make a meaningful contribution to the nation ' s health , why do he not bring forward the second reading of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill this evening , to help our child and bring about the first smokefree generation ? that Bill be ready to go ; why be the Government not ? the right hon . Gentleman could have provide an update to the House on the 40 , 000 more appointment that he promise many time during the campaign , which the late answer from his Minister to a write parliamentary question suggest be nowhere near happen . it be perhaps about as likely as the Prime Minister pay for his own glass . the right hon . Gentleman could have set out the step that his Department be take to prepare the NHS for winter . in the spring , I ask the system to start plan for this winter . how many bed , ambulance and care package have he put into the system to prepare it for winter ? he could have set out the term of the royal commission on social care . we in the conservative party stand ready to help on that royal commission , because we believe in constructive opposition , yet we have hear nothing from this Government . the right hon . Gentleman could have launch the much - hype 10 - year plan , which he promise before the election be " oven - ready " , but appear to be in the deep freeze . how many more Government reset will there be before that 10 - year plan be launch ? instead , in their first 95 day , this Labour Government have talk down the economy and the NHS , stop new hospital from be build , scrap NHS productivity improvement , oversee GPs enter industrial action , be expose in a health cronyism scandal , and open a dispute with hundred of thousand of nurse and midwife . they seek to justify all of that with the Darzi report . that report , from a former Labour Health Minister , have sink as quickly as it be brief out . it look backwards , but not far enough to mark the last Labour Government ' s policy and operational failure . if this government be serious about reform the NHS — and I genuinely hope they be — they and the Secretary of State need to transition quickly from oppose to govern . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will finish this point . that transition must begin with the language that the Secretary of State be choose to use about the NHS . interestingly , we have hear a little bit of nuance for the first time tonight , perhaps because health leader be raise concern that his " broken " narrative be damage public confidence and will lead to people not come forward for care , as be report on the day that the right hon . Gentleman give his speech to conference . that narrative be hurt the morale of staff who be work tirelessly for their patient . as the confected doom and gloom of the new Chancellor damage business confidence , so too do the Health Secretary ' s relentlessly negative language risk consequence in real life . let I say what the Health Secretary refuse to acknowledge : the NHS be here for we and be ready to help . its dedicated staff look after 1 . 6 million people per day , a 25 % increase from the day of the last Labour Government . that be why I be always a little concerned whenever the right hon . Gentleman hark back so far ; I do not think he have quite understand the change in capacity and scale of the national health service since we inherit it from the last Labour Government . the majority of those 1 . 6 million people will receive good care . [ interruption . ] these be just fact , but I know the Health Secretary find they difficult to receive . will my right hon . friend give way ? in one moment . of course , it be important that we focus relentlessly on those patient who do not receive good care , but that will not be achieve by write off the 1 . 5 million people who work in the NHS . in fact , the NHS have more doctor , nurse and investment than at any point in its history . it be deliver million more outpatient appointment and diagnostic test and procedure for patient than in 2010 , and NHS mental health service be support 3 . 6 million people a year , a 10 % increase in one year alone . rise — rise — I will give way to the doctor behind I , and then I will give way again . it be interesting that Lord Darzi choose 2010 , because there be some good point in what the Labour Government put in place , but there be also the problem of Mid Staffs . we have the Medical Training Application Service fiasco around medical career , for which Patricia Hewitt have to apologise , and we have the £ 11 billion IT project that be put in place and have now fail as well . these thing shape the NHS , and when we be try to come up with solution , they impact on the way that doctor , leader and politician come together . do my right hon . friend have suggestion for how we can take the politic out of this debate , enable we to have a sensible debate on reform , which I think both side of this House would like to see ? I thank my hon . friend , who bring his clinical experience and expertise to this debate . I say frankly to the Secretary of State that I wish he have take the approach of the Defence Secretary , who have set up a cross - party commission on defence spending . indeed , he have invite my former colleague to sit on that review , because he understand that we bring an enormous amount of knowledge , experience , and — dare I say it ? — some hard knock from work in those massively complex department . the right hon . Gentleman know I . we have do good - humour battle over the Dispatch Boxes for a long time now , and have he come to I and ask I to help he , I genuinely would have . [ interruption . ] the public be hear this . they want politician to cut all the flim - flam and the bluster and work together , and have the right hon . Gentleman be serious about the Darzi report , he would have do exactly as his colleague around the Cabinet table have do and conduct a cross - party review of the NHS to ensure that we can make real progress . it be interesting that the Health Secretary do not appear to agree with the approach that his Cabinet colleague have take . rise — I will listen to the hon . Gentleman . [ interruption . ] I be very generous with intervention , and I know that he bring expertise and experience to the House as well . I be grateful that you have give way , and thank you for that . I have be sit listen to you — [ hon . member : " Shadow Secretary of State . " ] I be sorry , I be get the hang of this . to be honest , I be struggle to recognise what the right hon . Lady be talk about . the state of the health service be a disgrace ; the Opposition , who I believe be the Government until quite recently , have totally mess the situation up over a period of 14 year . what Lord Darzi have have to say be a pretty accurate diagnosis of the situation we be in , so it be quite surprising to listen to the shadow Secretary of State talk as if everything be perfect over the last 14 year . that be simply not the case . I will help the hon . Gentleman , because I appreciate that he be new to this place . if he have be listen carefully to I , he would have hear that I be and have always be — in fairness , I hope the Health Secretary would acknowledge this as well — very open about the fact that the NHS need reform . in fact , I say as Secretary of State that I want to reform our NHS to make it fast , simple and fairer . by the way , I speak with personal experience . I know there be some member on the Back Benches who be new to this place and perhaps have not quite move on from the natural competitiveness of a general election campaign , but I be diagnose with type 1 diabete at the age of three . I have see the very good of the NHS , but I have also see some of its dark corner . the NHS be genuinely one of the reason why I come into politic , and one of the most damaging thing about political discourse and the healthcare system in this country be when people seek to attribute to other a lack of care or commitment to our healthcare system , just because we have different way of tackle these challenge and different solution . this be why — I will say this again , because I be not sure that the right hon . Gentleman be listen — I will work constructively with he to improve the health service , but we have to do this on the fact . some of the suggestion he make in the debate today and in his discourse during the general election campaign and so on be not accurate , and this be where I will pull he up . for example , he have not mention the introduction of Pharmacy First or the 160 community diagnostic centre . just to help he , those be back by the large central cash investment in MRI and CT scan capacity in the history of the NHS . those , as well as the new surgical hub that we introduce , be not only put healthcare into the community but , critically , help to improve the number of chest check and scan go through the system , which mean speedy diagnosis . the right hon . Lady mention Pharmacy First . how many pharmacy go bust on her watch ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , because I imagine he will have get exactly the same briefing I use to get when I be in his shoe and be advise by exactly the same civil servant — and I be have to let this flow back into my memory here — the average person in England be within walking distance of their pharmacy . he will know that in many high street in our market town , as well as in London and other urban area , there be a density of pharmacy . we want to support those pharmacy to ensure they be able to provide the service that they can provide , and in fairness , to enable pharmacist to work at the top of their licence . he support Pharmacy First when I introduce it , so I be a little surprised that he appear to be cast doubt on it , but I be grateful for his intervention . the next point be that our woman ' s health strategy — it do not have the attention from his ministerial team that it should have at the moment , and I hope that will improve over the come month — be see the roll - out of woman ' s health hub across England into every integrate care board area by the end of this year , ensure that woman ' s health issue receive the attention they deserve . of course , there be part of the nhs that need to change and do much well . the NHS need to reform for the future of healthcare , and our focus must be on improve outcome for patient , not protect structure , bureaucracy and vested interest in the NHS . as I have say repeatedly , we will scrutinise constructively and support any meaningful effort to reform the NHS to improve outcome and experience for patient , because we all want the NHS to thrive . however , after nearly 100 day , there have not be anything yet for we to scrutinise or indeed support from this Government . [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State say he have just give I a list . interestingly , I be pretty sure that three out of those four be start under my government . [ interruption . ] I be pretty sure that I be the Secretary of State who order the review of the Care Quality Commission , precisely because I be so concerned . he will be able to build on that report , and quite rightly so , but he should please be careful of his fact . disappointingly , it be the right hon . Gentleman ' s fondness for party and concert that have make the news recently , rather than his health policy . this Government need to sober up and start take responsibility for their choice . on Saturday , I have a surgery appointment with a young lady who have struggle to access support for her eat disorder and mental health issue . she have go through some of the most difficult experience anybody can go through . she ask I a simple question : " why have I be unable to access NHS support for my mental health ? " what would the shadow Secretary of State say to my constituent , who , when she look back at the reason , frankly blame the previous Government ? first , I be very sorry to hear that . again , the way we be try to deal with the enormous increase we have see in mental ill health across our country be first of all to boost mental health service for child and young people . indeed , the hon . member may not be aware of this , but we roll out mental health support team across nearly 45 % of school . we want to complete that to 100 % of school by the end of the decade , and I very much hope that the Secretary of State will be take up that policy and deliver it . the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) might know that there seem to have be a real increase in eat disorder since the pandemic . we know , for example , that the impact of social medium site , and the algorithm that sit behind they , can lead people who be already feel very vulnerable into even dark place . so when the Secretary of State say that there should be a cross - government piece of work , I very much agree with he — I hope he will achieve that through his mission board . but we really have to look at how we as a society can deal with some of these cause , because I do not think anyone be happy with see such a huge increase in anxiety and mental ill health among our young people since the pandemic . one of the thing that come up at our party conference some time ago be a recommendation from the British Medical Association and the General Medical Council to encourage medical student into local trust by pay their fee , which would pay for itself give the cost of locum doctor in each of our health trust . would the shadow Secretary of State support that , and would she in turn encourage the Government to do likewise ? I hope the hon . Gentleman know by now that when he make a suggestion , I will take it away . he will appreciate that , as part of a constructive opposition , I want to look carefully at the ramification — both the intended and unintended consequence — of policy suggest in the Chamber , but that sound very interesting . I thank he for his contribution , as always . rise — I be go to make some progress . one of the choice face the Health Secretary be whether he will fight for the investment require from the Treasury to implement the productivity plan . at spring Budget , the Conservatives announce more than £ 3 . 4 billion of investment to upgrade it system , expand service on the NHS app and make well use of artificial intelligence , in order to reduce bureaucracy for staff and free up clinical time for doctor and nurse . alongside the long - term workforce plan — the first ever in the history of the NHS — this plan will see productivity grow by 2 % a year by the end of the decade and unlock £ 35 billion of saving , yet the productivity plan be not mention anywhere in this 163 - page report . this plan be make in partnership with NHS England and fund by the Conservative Government . while the right hon . Gentleman have talk a good game on productivity , we be still wait for he to confirm his commitment to deliver the plan that be draw up with NHS England to help improve productivity . I ask he three week ago whether he be cancel this plan , and he fail to answer . I be very happy to give way now if he want to commit to it . the whole NHS would like to know . I be delighted that the shadow Secretary of State have so generously give way . I be not go to pre - empt the Chancellor ' s announcement at the Budget and the spending review , but I say to she that the reason why so many of the thing she say at this Dispatch Box as Secretary of State be a pile of nonsense be that they be plan build on a pillar of sand — a £ 22 billion black hole for which she and her party be yet to apologise . will she do that now ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , calculation be make in the Treasury for this economic inheritance , but the Treasury can not even explain how it have arrive at those calculation . if I be he , I would be a little bit careful of rely on that figure , because I fear it may trip up his Chancellor in due course . perhaps the reason why he can not answer the question about whether he be in fact commit to the productivity plan be that his friend the former Health Secretary , who have be walk in and out of the Department for Health with all of his private healthcare business , have not tell he whether he plan to accept it , but we will find that out in due course . the Secretary of State ' s silence continue with new medicine , technology and trial . these will be at the forefront of the reform need in health service across the world , let alone the NHS , yet the Darzi report mention NICE only once in 163 page . even worse , I be hear from the life science sector that he and his team be refuse to meet these business , put at risk the hundred of million of pound of investment that the Conservative Government secure , as well as the highly skilled job they provide and the life - enhance treatment they promise our constituent . it be his responsibility to persuade the Chancellor to continue support and invest in this innovation for the future , because patient will not thank Labour if it refuse to engage in the medical revolution with these business . another choice that the right hon . Gentleman must make — we perhaps have a precursor of what he be go to say — concern the workforce . we know that NHS staff be at the heart of our healthcare service , and that training , retain and develop our workforce be critical to the future of the NHS . the Conservative Government create the first ever long - term workforce plan for the NHS — again , a plan that be ask for and welcome by the whole NHS , and develop hand in hand with NHS England to train the doctor , nurse , midwife and other healthcare staff that we need now and in the future . the plan be describe by NHS England ' s chief executive as " one of the most seminal moment in our 75 - year history . " Crikey , even the right hon . Gentleman support it . yet this supposedly independent investigation fail to mention the plan once . will the right hon . Gentleman confirm that this Government stand by this plan and will fund it as the Conservatives would do ? [ interruption . ] he say that he talk about it , but he do not give an answer , because his job be to ask the Chancellor for this funding — have he do so ? I do . right , okay . we have that on the record now and we will wait to see what happen at the Budget . it be also strike that the report mention pay and wage only twice in 163 page , despite the fact that staff cost account for 65 % of provider operating cost a year . if the report and the Secretary of State do not acknowledge the single big cost pressure for provider , how can they claim to have the answer on reform ? he claim to have sort out industrial action in the NHS , and I must again correct he on something . he keep reference when I last have a conversation with the junior doctor committee , as it then be . what he neglect to tell we be that we enter mediation with junior doctor in May — he never think to mention that when he be hold forth at the Dispatch Box . how do it go ? we enter into that negotiation in good faith , and I gently remind Labour Members of Parliament who be here before the last election that again and again I ask the right hon . Gentleman and Labour mp to condemn the strike action and they refuse to do so , because we know of their link to their union paymaster — [ interruption . ] I will just say " train driver " and leave that hang in the air . when I ask the right hon . Gentleman during Health and Social Care question in July whether he be go to cut service or whether the Chancellor be go to raise taxis for the junior doctor pay rise , he assure the House that any pay rise would be affordable . how affordable do his deal look now ? he have give resident doctor an inflation - bust pay rise for be on strike , and he be pay they for the day they be on strike . he do that with no reform and no productivity improvement attach to it , and with more strike threaten for next spring . completely foreseeably , that have lead to nurse and midwive ask why they should accept less . simply tell nurse , " we ' re on your side " will not heat their home this winter . the report do not deal with the here and now ; it look only at the past . indeed , the Darzi report talk about the importance of capital investment , so if the right hon . Gentleman intend to use the report to inform his policy decision , as he say he do , why be he stop new hospital from be build ? there be now 24 hospital whose future be at risk , despite commitment from the right hon . Gentleman and Labour candidate during the election campaign . labour candidate in Watford , Hillingdon , Milton Keynes , Leeds and Basingstoke make promise to their voter that be now at risk under this Labour Government . patient in Chelsea and Fulham , Truro , Harlow , Plymouth and Kettering will not get the investment and upgrade that they deserve , despite the promise of their labour candidate . [ interruption . ] do not believe a word when this Secretary of State say , as he be say now , that it be because of the economy . the truth be that he have be plan to pause those hospital since May 2023 . for those who be wonder , the detail be in his health mission paper , which be publish to great fanfare in May 2023 — page 6 , if that help . he be plan this since May last year , which be exactly why the promise make at the election be so cynical and now need to be reveal . take a perhaps unhealthy dose of salt with the right hon . Gentleman ' s claim that the money run only until March next year . let I help this very inexperienced Secretary of State understand basic Treasury rule . the comprehensive spending review period finish in March . I wish I could have bind this Labour Government to commit to those hospital in the next CSR period , but I could not . it be his responsibility and his role to fight for funding from the Chancellor to ensure that the hospital be build . we promise that we would allocate the money need , and would prioritise the new hospital in the next CSR period . it be now the job of this Secretary of State to secure the money from his Labour Chancellor . through our plan to invest in more capital project , we also seek to improve cancer diagnosis and treatment . while outcome have improve since 2010 , there be much more to do . that be why we open 160 community diagnostic centre , roll out new lung cancer screening programme , and expand the use of artificial intelligence to speed up diagnosis . again , we note the lack of any mention of those centre or hub , which would reduce waiting list and speed up diagnosis , in this supposedly independent review by the former Labour Health Minister . I want a straight answer from the Minister in their wind - up speech on an issue that be worry family up and down the country . Cancer be the single big killer of child under the age of 14 . I launch the child and young people ' s cancer taskforce , which bring together top clinician , lead cancer charity and the Government to combat childhood cancer , and improve diagnosis and access to new treatment . its launch be warmly welcome by parent and charity , and expert be lend their time to the taskforce for free , yet this Secretary of State have choose to pause it . parent and charity include the Teenage Cancer Trust , young live vs Cancer , and Solving kid ' Cancer UK can not understand why the Health Secretary have choose to stop that work . that be his choice , and the Minister must please explain in the wind - up why the decision be take to pause it . the right hon . Lady make the point that cancer be the big killer of people under 40 , but glioblastoma brain tumour be the big killer of people under the age of 40 . what progress have there be in the last 30 year in the treatment and diagnosis of glioblastoma brain tumour ? I think the hon . Lady do not hear I ; I say that cancer be the big killer of child under the age of 14 , not 40 . I know only too well how that terrible brain cancer have hurt her family , and the great loss that she have suffer . I know that she have ambition for the work that we be do to get cancer treatment , particularly new cancer treatment , as quickly as possible to patient who be get towards the end of their life . we will of course support anything that the Government do to help people such as the hon . Lady ' s sister ; again , I come back to the fact that we all want this to work . rise — I will make some progress , because I know that I be try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . Lord Darzi say that prevention be well than cure . we agree . the Government say that they be commit to prevention , but action speak louder than word . scrap the winter fuel payment for million of pensioner will undoubtedly come at a cost to the NHS . the equality analysis estimate that 780 , 000 of the most vulnerable pensioner who be eligible for pension credit will miss out this winter , and the cut will result in 262 , 000 pensioner need NHS treatment because they be live in cold , damp home , at an additional cost of £ 169 million in a year . how have the Secretary of State stand by as the Chancellor make that appalling decision , which will affect vulnerable pensioner in his constituency , as well as the NHS ? finally , we have hear the word that the right hon . Gentleman have use about the NHS in England ; it be surprising , to say the least , that he have not use those same word time 100 to describe the state of the NHS in labour - run Wales . on almost every measure , the NHS perform the bad in Wales , where one in four people be on an NHS waiting list . Wales have the long waiting time ; Welsh patient wait on average seven week long than in England . More than 23 , 000 people wait long than two year , compare with just 120 people in England . give the Secretary of State ' s rhetoric about NHS England , why have he not ask Lord Darzi to take a cold , hard look at how Labour have run the NHS in Wales for 25 year ? in conclusion , we conservative want to support good reform and good policy for the well health of the nation , but this backward - look report will not improve productivity . headline will not drive well outcome for patient , and speech will not improve the life chance of our constituent . this Government need to move from word to action quickly . I will be brief . I think there be general consensus on Lord Darzi ' s review of the issue face the NHS , but in spite of what the shadow Minister say , staff morale be low , particularly when compare with 2010 . it have never be so low . I express my gratitude to and solidarity with all the staff , clinical and non - clinical , for the work they do . I will briefly focus on the key driver . we have hear a little about they from the Health Secretary , particularly in term of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 . I sit on both the Bill Committees . I be aghast , have just come out of the NHS and have face the issue . I just know it would be catastrophic , and it be . it have an almost immediate impact on staff morale . we must also recognise the impact of austerity between 2010 and 2018 . nhs revenue budget grow by just 1 % each year — the low rate since the NHS be form . that compare with growth of nearly 4 % a year since then . in 2010 , the Commonwealth Fund find that the NHS be one of the top - rank health system in the world . it be no . 1 for equity in access to healthcare ; we be now rank 10th . if we compare spend on healthcare , we be rank 26th in the OECD . austerity impact not only the overall funding of the NHS , but the funding allocation formula . the weighting for deprivation be slash , so area such as mine receive less money , although we have great health need . austerity also have an impact on other aspect of public funding and local government , and metropolitan area such as mine be particularly badly affect . it strip the support from people in need . I come into politic because of a desire to reverse grow inequality in health and disability . in my constituency of Shipley , there be a 10 - year gap in healthy life expectancy between those live in Wharfedale and their neighbour over the moor in Windhill . while lot need to be do to tackle poor housing and poverty , there be thing that the NHS can do . do my hon . friend agree that the NHS plan must prioritise prevention , as well as just treat sickness ? as a former public health consultant , I would obviously agree with my hon . friend . I have similar health inequality across Oldham . I be about to talk about the impact of other issue , such as social security cut , which mean great poverty , include in - work poverty and child from work family live in poverty . that have have a consequential impact on our health as a whole . we have flatline life expectancy , and in area such as mine , life expectancy have get bad . that impact on our productivity and the wealth of our country . I will briefly mention a couple of point that I know my right hon . friend the Secretary of State recognise , and might want to consider . an annual report on the state of our health and the state of our NHS , present to Parliament before each Budget , would pick up on the point that have be raise about cross - departmental impact on health . we should have a prospective assessment of the impact of the Budget and the Finance Bill on poverty and inequality , and subsequently on health and the NHS . that can be do ; other be do it . we should have a strategy to identify and address health equity issue in the NHS . we have see a bit of that through covid , in the inequity around the use of oximeter . we should introduce something like " improve work life " for our staff . that have a massive effect on staff when I work in the NHS . we need a clear commitment to the 1948 principle of the NHS , under which it be fund from general taxation , and a funding allocation base on need . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the finding in Lord Darzi ' s report be shocking , but Liberal Democrats — there be many of we here today — find that they echo the hundred of thousand of conversation we have with people on the doorstep across the country throughout the election campaign . in too many way , the NHS just be not work as it should , and that be a tragedy , because we all cherish the NHS and want it to succeed . it be one of our country ' s great invention and a great liberal idea . it be one of the thing that make we proud to be british . we all owe so much to the NHS and the incredible hard - work staff who have keep it go under the most intense pressure imaginable . despite their heroic effort , there be no doubt that we have a major crisis in the NHS . let we not forget , because it be so important — these thing be intrinsically link — that we also have a major crisis in care . the message that the british people send at the general election in July be clear : fix the health and care crisis must be this Government ' s no . 1 priority . before I turn to the Government ' s plan , it be worth remind ourselves of the scale and urgency of the challenge . far too many people wait week to see a GP or NHS dentist , if they can find one . far too many wait month or even year to start vital treatment for serious condition . far too many wait for hour in pain and distress for an ambulance to arrive . I recently speak to a constituent , Emma , whose 11 - year - old daughter Charlotte suffer from a medical condition that mean she be red - flagged , or a category 1 priority patient , in the case of a medical emergency . unfortunately , Emma and Charlotte be recently involve in a car crash . Charlotte urgently need an ambulance , but after two hour of waiting , her father decide to take she to hospital in the back of his car . she start her journey to senior school this autumn . her family have have to devise their own response network to keep she safe and secure , and to allow she to attend school in confidence . our ambulance service fail Charlotte and her family when they be in crisis , and we can not let that continue . the problem do not stop there . across the country , almost 6 . 5 million people be stick on hospital waiting list . that be one in every nine people in England . two million of they have be wait for more than six month . over the past year , more than 100 , 000 people have wait more than two month to start cancer treatment after an urgent referral . in my constituency of North Shropshire , almost 20 % of urgent referral take more than 43 day and 10 % take more than 62 day . the target be 28 day . it be truly heartbreaking . we know that every day count when patient be battle cancer . young people need help with their mental health be wait month and even year to access child and adolescent mental health service . there be no help for they until they be in crisis . as if all that be not bad enough , we have hospital that be literally crumble . there be a maintenance backlog of £ 11 . 6 billion . building be decade past their use - by date . it be shocking but , as my Liberal Democrat colleague and I know , far from exceptional . Most of these problem go back decade . the truth be that government of all party have fail to put enough capital investment into the NHS . they have fail to face up to the challenge of an age population and , crucially , they have fail to tackle the care crisis , with one honourable exception : the Care Act 2014 be pass by Liberal Democrat Ministers a decade ago , with cross - party support . sadly , it be rip up by the Conservative Government after 2015 . the failure and neglect of the Conservative Government leave the NHS teetering on the brink . there be so many grand promise — 6 , 000 more gps , 40 new hospital and cross - party talk on social care — but they be all fantasy . in Shropshire — which be not an outlier — the Royal College of General Practitioners find that the average GP be see 475 more patient than they be in 2016 . patient and their loved one have be let down so badly . when the scale of challenge across health and social care be so enormous , it would be easy to succumb to pessimism and defeatism — doom and gloom — but we can not afford to do that . the patient of today and tomorrow can not afford for we to do that . this moment demand the same urgency , ambition and vision that drive the creation of the NHS all those year ago . we very much hope that the Government will show that ambition . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s recognition of the fundamental importance of shift more focus to primary care — to GPs , dentist , mental health practitioner and community pharmacist — for our young people . as the newly appoint liberal Democrat spokesperson on mental health , I be really concerned to see in the report that mental health be about 20 % of the NHS ' s burden yet receive only 10 % of its funding . certainly in Winchester — it will be the same for nearly all hon . member in the Chamber — mental health , and especially the mental health of child , be one of the most commonly bring up subject . I know that the Secretary of State agree that mental health and physical health need to be treat with the same level of importance , but I urge we to recognise that we can not treat it with the same level of importance if the level of funding do not accord with the demand it be put on the service . it be not just about funding ; it be about make sure that the mental health support that be need be there in school , in social care and for people struggle with debt . so many non - medical factor contribute to mental health that we need a cross - departmental look at how we support people ' s mental health . my hon . friend be exactly right , and we put mental health and access to primary care and health prevention front and centre of our manifesto for that very reason . I encourage the Secretary of State to take our plan where they be complementary to his and run with they . we be happy to have our idea plagiarise — we will welcome it . welcome as that focus be , some of what we have hear give I cause for concern . first , some week ago the Prime Minister suggest that investment can come only after reform . I warn the Secretary of State that I do not think that that will work . the reform that our NHS need can not be do on the cheap . improve access to primary care mean invest in more gps , more nhs dentist and more community pharmacist . boost productivity mean invest in well it system and bring hospital up to date with the new facility they need . I agree that it can not be just more investment without reform , but nor can it be just reform without more investment . we need that investment now . the report that we have hear of potential cut to spending in the Budget be deeply concern . I urge the Secretary of State to guarantee today that they will not happen . finally , I be afraid that there still seem to be nowhere near enough focus or urgency when it come to care . we simply can not fix the crisis in the NHS without fix the crisis in care . right now , more than 12 , 000 people in hospital be ready and well enough to go home but stick there because the care they need be not available . that be awful for they and their family , and it be awful for the NHS that 12 , 000 bed that should be get use by patient who need they and allow well patient flow through hospital be be hold up because the care system be in crisis . I urge the Secretary of State again not to put this off any long but to set up a cross - party commission now so that we can agree a long - term solution to ensure that people get the care they need , when and where they need it , and that carer be properly support , too . I support what the hon . Lady be say about a have cross - party group look at social care , which be a sensible long - term thing that we need to do , and discharge from hospital be an important part of that . do she agree that discharge from mental health unit be also an important part of that ? on a recent visit to Basildon hospital , I see that discharge be not happen in mental health unit . that be perhaps as much of an issue in mental health social care as it be in old people ' s social care , which the House be more attuned to . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . there be a general problem with care in the community of all type not be there for people . we have people in place where they will not get well as quickly — in some case , their situation may be deteriorate — because that care be not available . mental health provision in my constituency be absolutely appalling . People register with a doctor over the border just to access well mental health care . I could not agree with he more . in conclusion , the Darzi report be shocking , but it be not surprising base on the experience of my constituent . poor access to primary care — whether that be gps , dentist or early mental health intervention — be leave people in pain and distress . long waiting list and crumble hospital be leave people unable to get back to work , with their situation deteriorate , and the crisis in social care — the elephant in the room — be deprive people of their independence and leave they in hospital when they could be at home . the new Government must make fix the NHS and care their no . 1 priority . liberal Democrats will be here to provide constructive opposition to ensure that they do . I call Ben Goldsborough to make his maiden speech . it be a profound honour to rise as the newly elect Member of Parliament for South Norfolk . the privilege of represent the people of the constituency be not one that I take lightly . I look forward to work with colleague across the House to ensure that their voice be hear and their need address . at the outset , I will take a moment to pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Richard Bacon , who serve South Norfolk for over two decade . Mr Bacon ' s tireless commitment to the constituency — particularly his effort to champion the cause of self - build home — have leave a last legacy . his work in advocate for those who wish to take control of their own housing future have empower many in our region and across the country to realise their dream of home ownership . one of the joy of represent South Norfolk be the opportunity to stand up for its wonderfully unique place , each with a name as memorable as the community behind it . from Newton Flotman to Saxlingham Nethergate , Tacolneston and the intriguingly name Three Cocked Hat , our constituency be a patchwork of distinct and vibrant village . it be often say in jest that thing be " normal for Norfolk " — we all know what the connotation be — but I want to challenge that label . in fact , if we look closely at what be happen in South Norfolk , we will find it be anything but normal , but in the good sense of the phrase . we be home to some of the most cutting - edge research and innovation in the world , all base at the Norwich research park right in our own back yard . I be so pleased to hear what the Secretary of State say on innovation , science , and research and development because in South Norfolk we have organisation in those field who will be delighted to hear it . the Quadram Institute be at the forefront of research into our food science and gut health , shape the future of nutrition and medicine . the John Innes Centre be world renowned for its plant science and microbiology , the Sainsbury Laboratory continue to lead the way in plant pathology and molecular biology , and there be Tropic — an ambitious company that start in Norfolk which be engineer a new generation of tropical plant , resilient to both disease and loom threat from climate change . its work be benefit not just South Norfolk or even the UK ; it be have a global impact , ensure food security and agricultural sustainability for future generation . heck , Tropic ' s work mean that in three or more year , we may be eat banana that be grow in Norfolk — not something that many people would have imagine . far from be normal , South Norfolk be actually a hub of scientific innovation and global leadership in field that define the future of our planet . dare I say , this be something of which we can be tremendously proud . it would be remiss of I not to mention another gem of South Norfolk : Lotus Cars , which be a symbol of british excellence in engineering . from its headquarters in Hethel , Lotus have be create iconic sport car for over 70 year , celebrate for their precision , innovation and performance . Lotus continue to push the boundary of automotive engineering , with its late model keep South Norfolk at the cutting edge of global motorsport and design . I recently have the privilege — perhaps the thrill — of be let loose on the Hethel test track with the stunning new Lotus Emira . that be my good Jeremy Clarkson impression , by the way . I will not be enter the British Grand Prix anytime soon ; I can promise you that , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ hon . member : " Shame ! " ] I know . I be pleased to report that both the car and myself , as a newly elect Member of Parliament , leave the site entirely intact , much to the relief of the Lotus team , and probably that of local Labour organiser worry about another by - election . the work do by Lotus be about not just fast car but pioneer technology that have implication far beyond the racetrack . from lightweight material to advanced aerodynamic , Lotus continue to be a leader in innovation that drive not only motorsport but the broad automotive industry . one of the great privilege of represent South Norfolk be the opportunity to champion the incredible business , community group and people who make it , in my humble opinion , the good place to live in the country . let I start with Huggers in Long Stratton , a plant - base coffee shop — yes , you hear I right , and it do sell lovely food — that have take the town by storm . the millionaire ' s shortbread cake there be the good and simply to die for . then there be Urban Jungle in Costessey , a haven for those with a love for the weird and wonderful in house plant and tropical plant . after all that plant shopping , Madam Deputy Speaker , you have to check out the fabulous coffee shop . member may notice that there be a theme with some of these shop . in Loddon , we have Rosy Lee ' s Tearoom , which be a real gem . it be like step into a tearoom run by your gran , basically — full of warmth , character and the good tea and cake around — but more than that it be a hub for the community and a place that care deeply for those in need during the covid - 19 lockdown , ensure that no one be leave behind in those difficult time . it truly embody the good of we . I also want to give a special mention to the Wymondham Community Outreach Project , which be run by Arnie and an incredible team of volunteer . they work tirelessly to ensure that those who be struggle to get by have access to food , clothing and — perhaps more importantly — friendship . their fantastic book bank ensure that everyone have access to a good book , because they understand that nourish the mind be just as important as nourish the body . last but no mean least be Spurgeons in Brooke . if anyone have not try its sausage roll yet , they be miss out , because they be truly extraordinary . the butcher there be second to none and its local produce be some of the good find anywhere in Norfolk . it be business like these and the people behind they that make South Norfolk such a vibrant , welcome and thrive place to live . each of they contribute to the fabric of our community , provide not just the good and service but the place of connection and support that bring we together as neighbour and friend . my value be forge in the heart of East Anglia , shape by the lesson learn from my parent . my mum Sara , a hard - work shop worker , and my dad Wayne , a stable lad — yes , those job still exist in the 21st century — instill in I principle that have guide my life , which I hope to bring to this House . they teach I the importance of honesty ; of give your all , no matter what the task ; and of never lose sight of your aspiration . perhaps most importantly , they teach I to treat people with respect , whether they be a colleague , a constituent or someone I have just meet . these be the value that shape I , and I pledge to uphold they and serve the people of South Norfolk with they . as I take my seat in the House , I do so with a clear sense of responsibility and deep commitment to the people of the constituency . there be two area that I be particularly passionate about and that will be at the forefront of my work in Parliament : stand up for the family of child with special educational need and disability , and seek much - need improvement to our justice system . first , support SEND family be a cause close to my heart . far too often , family face unnecessary battle to secure the right support for their child . the system , which should be there to help , can sometimes feel like an obstacle put in their way , leave parent exhausted and child without the resource they need to thrive . I will work tirelessly to push for reform in SEND provision so that it be fair , timely and accessible . every child deserve the opportunity to reach their full potential and every family deserve to be hear , support and empower . secondly , I be deeply committed to the reform of our justice system . while we can be proud of many aspect of british justice , there be still serious issue that need to be address . victim of crime too often feel let down by delay and an overburdened system , and community be frustrate by the lack of swift and fair outcome . I will work to ensure that our justice system prioritise victim ' right , tackle delay and restore public confidence . we must also ensure that rehabilitation and reformation be at the core of our system , so that those who have serve their time have real opportunity to contribute to society once more . these be the challenge that I intend to take with I on this journey through Parliament , and I look forward to work with colleague across the House to make they a reality . I believe that South Norfolk have a bright future , and I be eager to work with colleague in Government to ensure we address the press issue of our time , from housing and infrastructure to education and healthcare . the people of South Norfolk deserve no less than our full commitment , and I pledge to give they just that . rise — order . as the Front - Bench contribution go on for so long , Back Benchers will now be limit to three minute , and I ask that maiden speech be limit to five minute to squeeze in as many people as I can . I call a tieless Dr Luke Evans . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have remove my neck collar , which I be allow to do , but if member see my head wobble , I ask they to intervene and I will put it straight back on . I welcome the hon . member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) to his place . with the respect that he talk about and command , I be sure he will be an asset to the House . I come to the debate with a slightly unique perspective , and three minute be very little time to make my point . I have be a doctor since 2007 ; I sit on the Health and Social Care Committee for three year ; and , most recently — and probably most obviously — I recently have spinal surgery on my neck . however , that be not my only foray into the NHS : I have have both knee and my shoulder operate on and my appendix out , and I end up in intensive care with bilateral pneumonia after that , so I have see a fair amount of it . the bionic man . absolutely . in this debate , health be a political football . it always strike I that there be a rise tide across the western world , and at the four point of the nation . in Scotland , the NHS be run by the SNP ; in Wales , it be run by Labour ; in Northern Ireland , it be also separate ; and we have the Conservatives , who have now hand it over to Labour . all of they be struggle , and we would do well to remember that . I come into politic not to change the world but to solve that — that sound cheesy . in my last two minute I have a set of suggestion — as any good doctor would do , I will look at the short term , the mid term and the long term — to try to improve it . we could start with a root and branch review into prescribing , which be one of the most wasteful thing in the NHS . on top of that , it be worth look at the european working time directive , which hamper doctor when they study . overnight , that could increase the ability to see more patient by a couple of percentage point . I spend nine month wait for my operation , and there be a number of appointment letter . I have the ability to understand they and work my way through they , but a root and branch review of communication — the simple bread and butter of the NHS — would be very welcome . comparable datum across the nation , to see what go on , be so important . for the medium term , I would like statemente when people go into the NHS . everyone know how much it cost when they go to America — £ 40 , 000 for a ski accident . it cost that much here , and people would do well to remember that when they do not turn up to their appointment . on the IT system , we focus a lot on patient but I would like more focus on the staff and how they can use it . I would like capping of GP list — a sensible way , now that we have a workforce plan in place , to grow our staffing . finally , for the long term , in the 20 second I have I suggest a national service for SEND , take education and health together to deal with mental health . some 40 % of the child and adolescent mental health service referral in Leicestershire relate to autism and ADHD . that be a real problem that could easily be solve . in my final five second , I suggest an NHS centre for clinical excellence to share good practice . it be not good enough . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) . the report be a tour de force from Lord Darzi , and I thank he for his work . the Secretary of State rightly commission the report as a benchmark for future improvement . I be a member of the Health Committee from 2010 to 2015 . give the evidence we hear , there be no alternative but to pause the Bill — the Committee play an important role in that . chapter 10 of the report set out the structure . Lord Darzi point out that the 2012 Act be three time the size of the original Act set up the NHS . the 2022 Act move into integrated care , and in paragraph 15 on page 121 , he raise some concern about how the icb — integrate care board — operate , and their accountability . could there be a review into how they operate ? paragraph 37 highlight that trust chief executive ' pay be base on the turnover of the organisation , which encourage trust to " grow their revenue rather than to improve operational performance . " some be even pay more than the Prime Minister . the flow of patient be important , which be where work with local authority be so important . we can move plane around the world , but it seem we can not move people out of hospital . the Select Committee visit Torbay , which be set up in 2009 . we follow Mrs Smith from a single point of contact all the way through . as Lord Darzi say on page 77 , collaboration be not the same as integration . on page 5 , paragraph 13 , he point out that too great a share of the money be spend in hospital rather than in the community . on page 81 , he say that " GP … contract be complex " and do the right thing for patient be the wrong thing for GP income . he say , " that can not be right . " our mantra should be " prevention , prevention , prevention " . in our report , we say that public health should be move into local authority . as Lord Darzi say , health visitor be drop . he also say that the NHS be miss an opportunity to intervene early . we have sure Start , which be where health visitor be focus . he talk about clinical negligence . some £ 2 . 9 billion — 1 . 7 % — of the budget be spend on settle claim . can the Secretary of State pursue the duty of candour and ask each trust to look at whether they can move case into arbitration ? sadly , disparity by ethnicity make very grim and sad reading . paragraph 24 refer to the median age at death as 62 for white people , 40 for black people , 33 for asian people and 30 for those from a mixed background . there be suppose to be a chart in the report , but it be not there . will the Secretary of State look at produce it ? Lord Darzi ' s report give the Secretary of State and the health team an important opportunity to re - set the NHS . it be the envy of the world and free at the point of use . as Lord Darzi say , we can not afford not to have an NHS . I call Monica Harding to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a true privilege to be stand here among the green Benches , not only as the Member for Esher and Walton but as the first Liberal MP for my constituency for over 100 year , and its first female MP . the big issue on the doorstep in my constituency be undoubtedly the state of the NHS , so I be pleased to make my maiden speech in this debate . first , however , it would be remiss of I not to point out that Esher and Walton be only two of the town I represent . my constituency also include the Dittons , the Moleseys , Claygate , Hersham , Hinchley Wood and Oatlands . I be proud to have call it my home for almost 20 year and it be where I raise my four child . my constituency be also the playground of the king and queen of England . Esher and Walton span the former hunting estate of Henry VIII , which stretch from Thames Ditton to Oatlands Palace , where his daughter Mary and Elizabeth sometimes reside and Charles I be imprison . as a result of Henry ' s forest , our constituency be almost 60 % green - belt land . in the Government ' s plan reform to provide the home we desperately need , these area must also be protect . it be the ease of travel to London via the River Thames , when boat be fast than horse , which lead the monarch to Esher and Walton . sometimes , our train into London feel as slow as be on horseback . I look forward to push for improvement to our railway , but we be a river community . the Thames provide our border with London , and the chalk stream , the Mole , run through our constituency and be now one of the most polluted river in England . my constituent be so exercise by the sewage pour into our river that they have be explicit about send I to this place to help sort it out . our rowing club share their disquiet , not least because they do not want their Olympians get sick . Molesey boat club send four member to Paris this year , as do Surbiton hockey club — it be actually in Long Ditton — which send 11 and have over 1 , 000 youth player . every weekend in Esher and Walton , grassroots youth football club gear up to welcome over 5 , 000 player register . the great Walton and Hersham FC boast the young owner in world football , and so interlinked be football in our community that the five Claygate Royals youth team be name after Claygate ' s five pub . we be a hub of child play sport , which matter for their health and wellbeing , and that bring I back to the debate . Madam Deputy Speaker , I want to tell you a story from my constituency . during the general election campaign , I meet on the doorstep a couple unload their car . I apologise for disturb they as they be unpack their shopping . " not shop , " they reply , " we be unpack our son ' s belonging . he die . " they go on to tell I that this young 19 - year - old man have take his life while at university . " he meet you , " they tell I . " he say he would vote for you because you be speak out on mental health and special educational need support for young people . " his mother tell I that she count herself lucky that she have manage to support her son for the year at school because she could afford intervention and therapy . she worry about those child stick on NHS waiting list unable to access the support that he have have . in Surrey , there be almost 7 , 000 child on mental health waiting list , with average wait of almost eight month . I meet parent on the doorstep whose special need child be at home , rather than at school , for month and sometimes year , slide into depression because they can not access adequate provision . I promise that young man ' s mother that if I be elect I would continue to shine a light on this issue , and I can think of no well way to do so than in this debate . our child and young people be in trouble , and we must fix it . as a start , we need to put mental health care on an equitable foot with care for physical health . in 2024 , that be long overdue ; let this new Parliament be the start of it . I be , of course , very aware that I stand here on the anniversary of the 7 October attack . I want to add my voice in remember all those who have lose their life or be still hold hostage , and those across the region who be displace and suffer or have be kill . as the new liberal Democrat spokesperson on international development , I urge the Government to use all their lever to get humanitarian aid into the region as winter approach . I will be push this House to renew our leadership in international development by restore the 0 . 7 % commitment of gross national income to UK aid . my constituent be outward - look . they be use to have a Foreign Secretary as an MP in my predecessor Dominic Raab , and I pay tribute to his work — particularly his introduction of the British National ( Overseas ) scheme , which my party have long call for and which have give my constituency a wonderful new British Hong Kong community . follow 15 year work overseas , I be commit to contribute to the resetting of our standing in the world , recognise our international obligation and participate fully in our international institution , which will include restore a close relationship with our close neighbour , Europe . I bring to this House the brilliance of the people of Esher and Walton , and their struggle . as someone once say , politic do well change live . it save life too , and , in this still new Parliament , I intend , with hon . member and Friends , to set to work . I call Terry Jermy to make his maiden speech . I be delighted to follow the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , and my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) , to whom I be physically close in the Chamber and geographically close back home in Norfolk . I be delighted to be able to deliver my maiden speech as the new Member of Parliament for South West Norfolk . I have the pleasure of represent this fantastic part of the country — the place where I be bear , and where I go to school and college , buy my first house , and start my business . until a few year ago even keen political observer could have be forgive for not quite know exactly where South West Norfolk be , but I can certainly pay tribute to my predecessor , the right honourable Liz Truss , for put we firmly on the map . our large market town be Thetford , where I be from and where I have the honour of serve as mayor . some member may be familiar with the popular " Dad ' s Army " series , which be largely film in Thetford — we be the original Walmington - on - Sea . if member ever get the chance , the Dad ' s Army Museum be well worth a visit , and no trip to Thetford be complete without be photograph sit next to our life - size Captain Mainwaring statue . there be a number of " Dad ' s Army " quotation that I be sure will be relevant to my role in this place . I have already say to myself many time , " Don ' t panic , don ' t panic ! " , but I sincerely hope , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I do not give you cause to address I as " you stupid boy ! " South West Norfolk be beautiful . we have wide - open field , forest and river , and a fantastic history . however , as in so many rural area , under the surface there be challenge . I be acutely aware that one third of all child in South West Norfolk live in poverty , and there be part that be in the top 10 % for index of multiple deprivation . health inequality persist , with Norfolk regard as a dentistry desert . there be a crisis in adult social care , with far too many example of poor - quality care provision . we have a mental health trust with long - stand challenge and place in special measure , and the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in King ' s Lynn be riddle with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , literally hold up by more than 5 , 000 metal and wooden prop . the challenge be stark , and these be some of the many issue on which I have press the government and will continue to do so . I think it be fair to say that I be not expect to win my election . as a result , there be many people wonder , " who be this person from South West Norfolk ? " I do not come from a political family , but I care passionately about my local community , which be why I decide to put myself forward and join the local town council age 22 . I have take advice and guidance from many fellow councillor over the year , but one lady in particular , Thelma Paines , mentor and guide I , and I owe much of my political upbringing to she . sadly , Thelma pass away in 2022 and therefore do not see I reach this place , but I certainly would not be here without her encouragement and support . when she stand down as a local councillor , she would still telephone regularly , with her customary , " listen up , duck ; I ' ve get something to say . " while mention role model , I must take a moment to mention Baroness Gillian Shephard , our Member of Parliament from 1987 through to 2005 . if there be one local MP I would like to emulate , it would be she — a fantastic example of a good constituency MP who be knowledgeable of the area and root in the community . be a Labour councillor in rural Norfolk can be tough . fortunately for I , I have family on my side — yes , of course with support and encouragement , but I have an advantage over my rival . my dad be the young of 13 , and my mum have seven brother . with nearly 40 auntie and uncle , and over 100 cousin , I be sure that I owe at least my first election victory to my grandparent ' love for one another and the result vote some year later . it be because of my experience with my own family and , more specifically , with my father that I make the decision to switch from be a local government candidate to stand for the first time in a national election . it be entirely appropriate , but also somewhat difficult for I , that I find myself here today deliver my maiden speech in a debate about our NHS . in 2013 my dad , Trevor Jermy , have a life - alter stroke age just 55 . he be an engineer . he work hard from the day he leave school at 15 and become an accomplished welder fabricator . frankly , there be not much that my dad could not fix . stroke come in all shape and size . my dad , have show no warning sign , suffer a major stroke . the physical aspect be painfully easy to see and difficult for a man so use to use his hand , but there be psychological damage too . as a family , we see up close and over a number of year the awfulness of the current process for apply for personal independence payment , dehumanise work capability assessment and how little we as a country value the contribution of carer . disabled people and their family continue to come under repeat attack , most recently in Norfolk with change to the minimum income guarantee . after 10 further year with my dad , he become unwell . we try to get he a GP appointment , which , as for so many , be difficult . when we eventually manage to get he in front of a doctor , he be send straight to A & E with pneumonia . then he contract covid . the pneumonia , combine with covid , be too much for his already fragile state , and he be place in a medically induce coma . as a family , we spend every day for the follow two month visit my dad in intensive care at West Suffolk hospital . because of the infection risk , he be in a quarantined room and only one of we be allow in each day for a maximum of an hour , and in full personal protective equipment . his 65th birthday pass , as do Christmas and new year . when the time come to try to wake he , we be devastate to discover that he have have a further stroke while in the coma . some more week pass , but my dad never regain the cognitive and physical ability that he have just a few month early , and he pass away on 29 January 2023 , age just 65 . during the long time that my dad spend in hospital , I see painfully up close so much of our NHS . I see ambulance routinely queue up , the accident and emergency department always busy , and the hospital building look old and tired . I see how few staff be available during the week , and at weekend the situation be bad . I see how his catheter bag be leave for long than it should have be , and of course , I see the impact of this whole nightmare on my mother and the rest of our family . it be at that point that I decide that enough be enough and that , if I could , I should try to do something about it . that be when I decide to stand — not particularly because I want to win , but because I want to raise the issue . I want someone to acknowledge how bad thing have become and how we could not carry on like this . I have be strike by the majesty of this place since I be elect ; it be utterly awe - inspire , and I do not think I will ever quite get use to it . for all the pomp and the politic , this role carry with it a huge burden and a huge opportunity . we can not fail to succeed . we must do well . we must at all time remember why we be here , because people in this country , particularly the most vulnerable , be absolutely rely on we to succeed , and I hope to do what I can to make their life that little bit well . may I start by congratulate the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) on her deeply affectionate speech ? her constituency be a place that be close to my heart , my grandparent have reside in Claygate for a number of year . I also congratulate the hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , and I be sure his father would be hugely proud of how he speak with great affection for his home constituency . on 5 July this year , 76 year to the day since the NHS come into being , my mother be involve in a serious road traffic accident . but for the skill and care of the health service , she may well not have survive . many of those who care for she be my former colleague in the major trauma service at University Hospitals Birmingham . I know that the care they provide be not an exception ; it be not a case of go a little far for a former colleague . no , this be yet another example of the brilliant and dedicated care that our healthcare professional provide every day . while we rightly acknowledge and praise the endeavour of all our healthcare worker , we must not put the NHS on such a pedestal that it become a sacred cow . while we can all appreciate the hard work and dedication of our NHS staff , it would be unwise and a mistake to construe those same worker and the institution as one and the same thing . there be a real risk that such a religious fervour develop around the institution of the NHS that its growth and development be stifle . we have reach a point where any constructive criticism of the organisation be deem to be level the same criticism at the staff who keep the wheel grind through every shift . the NHS be build to provide episodic acute care . now it be heavily dominate by the management and treatment of chronic condition . the hospital - centric model that presently exist be arguably outdated , and a paradigm shift to a more preventive , community - base model should be pursue . for far too long it have be the workforce who have rise to the challenge , rather than the organisational structure itself . the principle that our health service should care for everyone regardless of their personal wealth be profoundly important . to undermine that would be to disrupt the foundation upon which it be build . however , we would be do the NHS a disservice if we fail to have an honest debate about how we improve it . in the short time that I have remain , I wish to raise the issue of the over - centralisation of decision making . we have end up in a position where clinician and manager on the frontline be less empower and trust to make decision and deliver for their patient . too many decision be make at the centre , which lead to overly complicated and often conflict layer of approval and process . ultimately , by enable risk to be hold by other part of the system , local decision maker will be more empower , decision will be make in a more timely manner and a great sense of trust will be establish . member from across the House will have their own experience of the NHS , but in my case , after care for my late sister Margaret , who be diagnose with a glioblastoma brain tumour in 2021 , I can say with regret that the NHS fail she , force we to travel to Germany when she be at her sick in order to find some treatment that might extend her life . in his summary letter publish before the report , Lord Darzi tell we that he be " shocked " by what he have find , but the 3 , 200 people who be diagnose with a glioblastoma brain tumour every year be not shocked . they know just how bad thing be . the report have tell we that the UK have high cancer death rate than our european neighbour . for patient with a glioblastoma brain tumour , that be news to no one . in comparison to 33 similar country , the UK rank 25th for five - year survival rate . life expectancy for somebody diagnose with a glioblastoma be just nine month . there have not be a new treatment in the NHS for more than 30 year , and the diagnosis be still a death sentence . in 2018 , after Tessa Jowell sadly pass away with a glioblastoma , £ 40 million of ringfenced Government funding be promise for brain tumour research . of that £ 40 million , just £ 11 . 3 million have be spend . six year on , and the National Institute for Health and Care Research can not even get the money out of the door . that be a real failure of Government . in June 2024 , just before the election , a roundtable discuss how to spend £ 15 million of this money , and I have be try to find out what it decide . last week , I receive a letter from Professor Lucy Chappell , the NIHR ' s chief scientific adviser . disturbingly , she tell I that the NIHR largely fund research base on the importance of the topic to patient and health and care service , value for money and scientific quality , but it do not " allocate funding for specific disease area . " the pharmaceutical industry do not work on glioblastoma . if the NHS also do not , who will ? do we keep on bake cake ? I have work in healthcare for most of my career and , as I say in my maiden speech , I think we need an honest discussion with the public about how we fund , provide and deliver healthcare in England . I work in the NHS for seven year prior to my election , and I work every day to improve clinical outcome and patient care , include in the surgical hub mention by the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) . I can assure the House that , although it have significant challenge , the NHS also have significant opportunity , include the opportunity for we to reshape it not only to meet the need of today but to ensure its survival for future generation . Lord Darzi ' s report , like many other , make it clear that , although it be not break , the NHS be at a tipping point . his report be wide - range , but it could not cover everything . for example , post - natal female care receive little attention , but it be essential to ensure a universal standard of post - birth care for mother and child . despite significant investment from the previous Government , we must be honest with the public not only about the true state of the health service , both nationally and locally , but about the difficult choice that lie ahead . first , we need to rethink how we deliver healthcare close to home and more efficiently . expand partnership with the private sector , whether in diagnostic , elective surgery or mental health service , can relieve some of the burden on NHS facility . by foster public - private partnership , we can enhance capacity and efficiency while ensure that the NHS remain free at the point of use . technology and innovation be essential to transform the NHS . artificial intelligence , digital record and telemedicine have enormous potential to improve outcome and reduce cost , but the NHS lag behind in digital transformation — the catastrophe of Labour ' s it system cast a long shadow . equally , we must have an honest conversation about patient choice and responsibility . the NHS have historically promise to be everything to everyone , but we must ask ourselves if this be realistic . encourage patient choice could drive competition and improve service delivery , but we also need to ask patient to take great responsibility for manage their health , particularly in area such as preventive care and chronic disease management . finally , funding be key to this debate . for too long we have rely on promise of increase funding without fully grapple with how we can sustainably finance the NHS . More money be part of the solution , but where should that money come from ? I want an NHS that be free at the point of use , but we need to explore social insurance model , encourage private investment or potentially increase taxis . these be tough question , but they must be answer . we need a radical rethink of NHS bureaucracy . in conclusion , although the NHS be one of the major achievement of our time , now be the time to take action to reform it . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) , and for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , and the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , on their wonderful maiden speech . I first wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , Richard Graham . Richard represent Gloucester and its resident for 14 year , and I thank he for his service . in the last Parliament , he work to make spike a specific criminal offence — something I be proud that this Government will deliver . it be the most incredible privilege to stand here on behalf of Gloucester resident and to make my maiden speech in this debate , and it be particularly appropriate for three reason . first , my local NHS hospital , Gloucestershire Royal , have play an important part in my family ' s life . it be where my wife and I spend our first night with our little boy , who turn one later this month . I have also spend much of my professional career represent NHS trust up and down the country , and I have hear at first hand some of the challenge they face , particularly in the recruitment and retention of frontline key worker , to whom I be sure we all owe a personal debt of gratitude . it be also appropriate because I know how many family in my constituency be struggle to get the NHS care they need and will recognise many of the finding in Lord Darzi ' s report . see a gp , go to the dentist for a check - up or arrive at A & E in an ambulance and go straight through the door — those might seem like the basic requirement of a function health service , but for my constituent they have become a luxury . Gloucester be a city rich with potential . we be a city small in size but giant in stature . we have a proud history stretch back to the Roman colonia of Glevum , one of the administrative capital of Roman Britain . we be one of only three city in the UK to have host a coronation , and our mighty cathedral soar above the city skyline . young Members of the House will recognise the cathedral ' s cloister as part of the magical world of Hogwarts , while old member may recognise our city and our tailor as part of the magical world of another famous Potter — beatrix . last month , we celebrate Gloucester Day , which mark the end of the siege of Gloucester , in which our city stand tall when all hope appear lose . you can still find brilliant example of our wonderful heritage across the city , perhaps on a visit to the Folk of Gloucester or on a tour with the Gloucester Civic Trust . we also have a proud military history , from the Glorious Glosters to RAF Quedgeley , which be now Kingsway ; and our historic dock , recently designate a heritage harbour by the Maritime Heritage Trust , be home to the brilliant soldier of Gloucestershire Museum . Gloucester also stand out as a place of great innovation : the vacuum cleaner , the ferris wheel , the first jet aircraft and , of course , Viennetta be all pioneer in our great city . but our potential to be great be not confine to the history book — and no , I be not just talk about the country ' s fine rugby team , Gloucester - Hartpury , who have win the premiership woman ' s rugby title two year in a row . the seed of change be sow in recent year — first under Parmjit Dhanda , Richard ' s Labour predecessor , and then under Richard — with the regeneration of the Quays , the Forum and the exciting new university campus , which be due to open next year . but we can and we must go far ; plan for the redevelopment of Podsmead and Matson must be bring to life , and brownfield site across the city turn into the social housing of the future . this government ' s mission to get Britain building can and should unlock our city ' s potential . however , it be not in development that our city ' s great potential lie ; that potential be , of course , in our people — the brilliant people of Gloucester , who be community - minded , fiercely proud and quite happy to tell I exactly what they be think . as the new MP for Gloucester , I know that although potential be find in all resident in our city , opportunity be not . I enter politic because I see the potential of every child in Gloucester , and I want to fight to ensure that opportunity like the one I have grow up in a working - class family under the last Labour Government be open to every single family like mine in our city . when I visit school in my constituency , I see the next generation of solar and wind engineer , the next cohort of developer and cyber - security expert , and the carer , nurse and doctor who will look after I when I be old . Gloucester be a diverse city , with over 70 different language speak on Barton Street alone — a city that stand unite during the uprising of racism and Islamophobia we see elsewhere in the country this summer — but more need to be do . at a recent meeting of the Gloucestershire Race Collective , I promise to use my position in this House to give voice to the concern of our diverse community in Gloucester , and to work with this Government to tackle rise level of racism and Islamophobia in our country . as I work with this Government to deliver on their mission to provide opportunity for everyone in my constituency , regardless of their background , I hope that those opportunity will strengthen the already incredible bond that bring our city together . those bond be well demonstrate by some of the amazing community organisation and charity work in our city , like Gloucestershire Gateway Trust , whose bridge the Gap programme help break down barrier to work and get local people into sustainable employment ; like Gloucester Feed the Hungry , whose warm welcome , hot coffee and delicious samosa put a smile on the face of so many in our city ; and like the Holly Gazzard Trust , which be tackle domestic abuse and stalking , turn that family ' s personal tragedy into a safe future for all . there be many more such organisation — I could go on all day , but I be conscious of time — that demonstrate the very good of our city : a community that be drive to help other to achieve their potential . in closing , I make a simple promise to the constituent of Gloucester and the community that I be so proud to serve : I will work tirelessly to deliver a well future for our city . it will be a future in which everyone can access the NHS care they need and every child have the opportunity to thrive ; a future that celebrate our heritage , our potential , our diversity and our community — our Gloucester . I call Ian Sollom to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) on an excellent maiden speech . he pack an awful lot into just over five minute and set the bar very high for I . I be aware that I be be watch by you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an immense honour and hugely humble to address the House for the first time as the first ever MP for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire . the new constituency perfectly encompass the heart of Cambridgeshire . it have countryside that include some of the most fertile farmland in the UK and the rich ecology at the edge of the fen . it mix ancient and rural village with new town and new community — and , of course , there be the magnificent market town of St Neots , the large town in Cambridgeshire . it be a source of great pride that our town have be recognise in the name of a constituency for the first time . have be entrust with make that newfound recognition count , I be sure that the House will appreciate hear a great deal more about St Neots from I over the come year . St Neots , which sit alongside the Great North Road , gain its name as a site of pilgrimage . we have welcome visitor throughout the century . in recent time , the whole constituency have gain a proud record of welcome those who have choose to make it their home , particularly those who move from the London overspill to St Neots and the new village of Bar Hill in the 1960 . there be also more recent major development on the eastern edge of St Neots and the northern edge of Cambridge . there be the new town of Cambourne , which celebrate its 25th birthday this year , and the even new town of Northstowe , which will become the large new town in the UK since Milton Keynes . it be exciting to see new resident shape vibrant community , create new tradition and support each other . in a very literal sense , these new community be why I be here , represent a new constituency , and why I pay tribute not to one predecessor but three : Jonathan Djanogly , Lucy Frazer and Anthony Browne . they all serve the community in my constituency that they represent with dedication and commitment , and serve our national interest as , at various time , member of the Government . my be here also starkly highlight some incongruity of growth in Cambridgeshire . in create my constituency , and take the number of Members represent Cambridgeshire and Peterborough from seven to eight , Parliament have deploy more democratic resource to Cambridgeshire . however , many other resource remain unchanged or lag far behind where they ought to be , whether that be fund for the police , fire and rescue service , education , social or council service or , most pertinently in this debate , health service . Lord Darzi ' s report pull no punch in articulate the dire state of the national health service , but in St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire , the problem be exacerbate by a funding model that have take little account of the growth in our population . that be feel most acutely in primary care service ; it be really challenge to get access to GPs and dentist . I urge the Secretary of State to put that right at the early opportunity . moreover , I urge he to follow Lord Darzi ' s recommendation by pilot new , innovative multidisciplinary model for neighbourhood care in the NHS in our new community in St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire . such innovation be something that my constituency would surely welcome , and as a scientist by training , I would welcome it , too . I have focus in this speech on my constituency and my constituent , because it be my great source of pride to represent they here , but my background in physics — I have a phd in cosmology — be something that I be also proud to bring to this role , even if I do think that I have leave the study of black hole behind I some time ago . I be of course already the long - serve member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire , but I hope that the dedication , integrity and judgment with which I have pledge to serve my constituent will see I hold that record for a considerable time to come , make a real difference to the people of my constituency , and work with member across this House to make a difference to the whole of the UK . be a real pleasure to follow the new hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) . I be sure that he will be a rise star on the liberal Democrat Benches . it be a pleasure to follow all hon . member who have make their maiden speech today . I be really grateful for the analysis that Lord Darzi have set out for we . the NHS have never be under such duress , nor have its staff , but follow a diagnosis , we need a prescription . that be what I want to talk about today . we live in an age society , and while we celebrate the medical advance since Labour be last in power — in diagnostic , treatment , digital and technology — we know the urgency with which we need to apply they . transformation have to be central to the agenda . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his focus on the NHS bring about the transformation that be need . however , before we can look at that , we need to look at the financial flow in the NHS , which be not work , and the governance structure . I be not talk about reorganisation ; I be talk about have one control mind in the right place in the service , oversee the system . at the moment , there be too much focus on secondary care . that be suck resource and work into that part , and drive inefficiency . move service into primary care be the key to unlock the productivity and saving that be need . it will improve health as well . in the short time that I have , let I point to two example in my community . first , in mental health , 30 Clarence Street be set up to be open access , so that there be no more long queue to see mental health practitioner , and multidisciplinary , with the public sector and the voluntary sector work hand in hand to meet people ' s need . I invite the Secretary of State to come and see that service , because it be what we should be do across our NHS . two more hub be to be set up in my constituency , lead the way on mental health . then there be the work of Nimbuscare in primary care setting ; it be pull out from the NHS all the service that do not need to be in the secondary part . it be unplug the backlog at the front door of the health service , while ensure that we be look after people at the back door . that be the transformation that our health service truly need . I want to share those example , and set out how they can be extend to build the NHS of the future . I call Susan Murray to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech . it be a pleasure to speak after the many excellent maiden speech we have hear , include from the hon . member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) and for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , my hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , the hon . member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) and my hon . friend the Member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) . that take a bit of time , but it be important that those excellent speech be acknowledge . I enjoy listen to they all . it be a great privilege for I to stand here today represent Mid Dunbartonshire , and the community that be close to my heart . I have live there for 30 year , and it be where both my son go to school . Mid Dunbartonshire be in Scotland , in case member have not notice . it be a new constituency , follow boundary change this year . it sit 100 % inside the East Dunbartonshire council area , as do the old constituency of East Dunbartonshire , but it now include Lennoxtown and Milton of Campsie to the north and some of Lenzie to the east . I be delighted that these town be now in the constituency I represent , but my sorrow be that it do not include Kirkintilloch East and Twechar , which be also dear to my heart and where I have be a councillor since 2017 . I be sure that the hon . member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) will look after the community there , and it be good to hear she highlight the problem with local bus service in her maiden speech . it go without say that Mid Dunbartonshire be the good constituency in the UK . local town be regularly promote as the good place to live in the UK — Bearsden in 2021 and Kirkintilloch in 2024 — and in 2017 " woman ' s Hour " reveal East Dunbartonshire as the good place in Britain for woman to live . incidentally , that be when Jo Swinson begin her third term as the Liberal Democrat MP for East Dunbartonshire , so I thank Jo for all her work in the constituency . I also want to recognise her successor , Amy Callaghan , and particularly the personal challenge that Amy overcome during her time as an MP . she have show such courage in her service to the community , and I wish she well in the future . I also thank Stuart McDonald , who be the MP for the new part of the constituency . I know that he be hold in very high regard and with much affection in that area . I be pleased to speak in the debate on Lord Darzi ' s report , because I know only too well the challenge that individual and family have to face when our health let we down . in 2006 my husband have a brain haemorrhage , which change our life in an instant . I become his full - time carer and could not continue in my profession , and he be never able to return to his career . from be comfortably off , life change to watch every penny . without the support of our family , we could have lose our home , and we be very fortunate . friend and our community help I to survive and get on with life . I can not praise NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde enough . my husband spend month get well enough to come home from hospital . perhaps we be lucky with the timing , because at that time the excellent , talented and caring staff have the resource , which I have see decline ever since . I work in the NHS before a career in medical marketing . I know the NHS from work in it and with it , and from my experience of visit my husband . latterly , I have be aware of the integration of health and social care through my role on the council . I know the pressure that good , kind , caring professional be under to become as efficient as possible , and they be absolutely do their good . look back , that be the beginning of my involvement in politic . I be throw into the space that our society refer to as " community " . I know why it be important for Government to fund local authority and community and to give they real power . they prevent cost to the NHS every day by stop the revolving door of treatment , discharge home and relapse back into treatment , and they support self - care and wellbeing . they be our CPS — not the Crown Prosecution Service , but our community prevention service , which pay back investment in spade by prevent cost . what make Mid Dunbartonshire special be its people and community . like in other place , during covid the community step up to support each other , and group be still help with shopping and patient transport . there be group of volunteer fight climate change , reduce social isolation , provide mental health support and peer support , support carer , provide financial advice , help with housing problem , look after community building , preserve our heritage , knit for peace , and promote fair trade , performance art and more — tackle problem at home and internationally . Mid Dunbartonshire people care and take action . from listen to other maiden speech , I know that that be happen all over the UK . Liberal Democrats want to harness that power for good . one message that come across loud and clear on the doorstep be that resident in Mid Dunbartonshire be tired of vote against thing ; they want to vote positively for thing . Thomas Muir of Huntershill in Bishopbriggs be a famous son of Mid Dunbartonshire . at the end of the 18th century , he be a strenuous advocate of equal representation of the people in the House of the people , where I stand today . he say : " I have devote myself to the cause of the people . it be a good cause . it shall ultimately prevail . it shall finally triumph . " the fight for fair vote prompt revolution at the end of the 18th century , and Thomas Muir be find guilty of sedition and transport to Australia for his effort . in the 19th century , it take three reform act of this House to slowly extend voting right for man . in the 20th century , the Representation of the People Act 1918 give voting right to some woman and to man age over 21 . but it be not until 1928 that all adult have the right to vote . today , in the 21st century , the call for well democracy continue . the turnout in Mid Dunbartonshire at the last election be almost 72 % , but many constituency have a turnout in the low 40 per cent . the result show a clear failure to engage a huge number of voter . I call on the Government to consider carefully the mandate that the result give they , to treat every potential voter with dignity and respect , and to make the change to give every vote an equal weight , no matter where it be cast . this be an opportunity to end self - serve and self - obsess politic , and to truly introduce the politic of service . I will join my colleague in this place in scrutinise Government proposal and work constructively with they to improve the quality of life for my constituent and all resident of the UK who make up the rich diversity of our community . I call Luke Murphy to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to rise today to deliver my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Basingstoke . I congratulate the hon . member who have make their maiden speech today , not least my hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) . his dad would be very proud . I recognise the work of my predecessor , Dame Maria Miller , who represent Basingstoke for 19 year . Dame Maria be the first woman to be elect to Parliament in north Hampshire , and she work hard to see more woman sit on these green Benches and to promote woman in all walk of life . nationally , as Minister for Women and Equalities , and as Chair of the Select Committee on Women and Equalities , she work to champion share parental leave , flexible working and support for transgender right . in the early hour of Friday 5 July , Basingstoke make another first by vote for change and return its first ever Labour Member of Parliament . that be not a privilege that I will ever take lightly or for grant , but it be one that I be committed to make the most of for the constituent , town and village that I represent — and for the country , too . I will support the new Labour Government in deliver the change that people vote for , not least on the subject that we debate today : our NHS . nor be this a privilege that I would ever have expect grow up . it be true that my grandparent rub shoulder with member of this House and the other place — include Harold and Mary Wilson , one of Mr Speaker ' s predecessor , and various Lords and Ladies — but that be because my grandparent clean the mansion block in which they live on Victoria Street . I hope to do Bessy and John Murphy and Elsie French proud . it be because of their extraordinary hard work and that of my parent , Liz and Sean — a carpenter and an it manager who leave school at 15 with no qualification — that I have be able to make it to this House today . my parent ' hard work and dedication to my sister ' s and my education ensure that we be the first in our family to go to university , and we have both seek to ensure through public service that other be offer the same opportunity . my sister Jude serve as an Army officer , do two tour of Afghanistan , and now I be serve as the first ever Labour MP for Basingstoke , because I have always believe that it be Labour government who have do the most to ensure opportunity for all . I firmly believe that people in Basingstoke vote for their first Labour MP this year for the same reason that so many people choose to move to our town and the surround village : because they seek well opportunity for themselves and their family . Basingstoke have long be favour as a place to move to for family and business alike because of its location and good transport link . around the town , the constituency boast delightful countryside and picturesque village such as North Waltham , Deane , Oakley , Steventon , Malshanger and Wootton St Lawrence , and it have a long and proud history . our market , hold every Wednesday , be fix by a royal charter over 800 year ago . the town have an important role in the civil war , with Oliver Cromwell himself turn up to end a siege , and Jane Austen dance at assembly hold locally . she would no doubt have be proud of the work of fiction we hear from the opposition Benches early , though I doubt she ever have to undertake such a rapid edit of a piece of work as I have this evening . Basingstoke have also suffer moment of notoriety . in the late 1600 , it be for bury the same woman alive twice — a lesson for we all in this House to never write off our opponent , lest they make a stunning comeback — but it be the Basingstoke riot of 1881 that make national news , after a group riot against procession of the Salvation Army because they fear its clampdown on what it call the demon drink . those riot lead one newspaper to describe Basingstoke as a " benighted little town which appear to be chiefly inhabit by a race of barbarian " . that episode perhaps provide some valuable lesson for today : do not believe everything you read in the paper , and consider any public health measure wisely . I be sure the Health Secretary be listen keenly . since the 1960 and the plan London overspill , Basingstoke have be transform almost beyond recognition from the old market town . now effectively a thriving new town , Basingstoke be home to many significant business and world - class employer include the AA and Eli Lilly , but it be not just the big player : from renewable energy start - up such as Tomato Energy to independent coffee shop and restaurant such as Willows and the Gabardine , thousand of small business form the backbone of our economy , power by the institution that be shape the mind of tomorrow , include Queen Mary ' s college and Basingstoke college of technology . one of the key strength of Basingstoke be its sense of community and the diversity within the town . we have vibrant and active Hindu , Nepali and irish community , and that strong community spirit be also evident in the incredible work of our local charity and voluntary organisation , such as Home - Start , Basingstoke NeighbourCare and the Caf é Dome . it be their passion , dedication and generosity that make Basingstoke such a special place to live , and I pledge to support their effort in any way I can . nowhere will I work hard than in support of our NHS , the subject of our debate today . I have see at first hand the power of the NHS and the increase strain , mismanagement and decline of the past 14 year . my dad have rely on the NHS for almost his entire life : diagnose with type 1 diabete at the age of 17 , he have suffer with complex and chronic illness , especially in recent year . I have see the NHS at its good , save his life twice after two stay in intensive care just last year . I will always be grateful for the care that the doctor , nurse and other NHS staff give he , but after many hospital visit , I have also see how much the system struggle to cope with provide high - quality care for people with multiple long - term condition . in the election campaign , no issue be more prominent in my conversation with voter in Basingstoke than their be deny the health service that they rightly believe they deserve . I be proud of this Government ' s focus on build an NHS fit for the future , and I want to restore the fundamental promise of the NHS for everyone in Basingstoke : that it will be there when we need it . secure the return of the family doctor be a popular and much - need policy locally , and I mean to ensure that we deliver it , just as I will continue to campaign for the delivery of our much - need new hospital . as a Labour MP , my guide principle will be to fulfil the promise of this Labour Government in restore opportunity for all , whether that be through the NHS , education or tackle climate change . opportunity be why so many people have make Basingstoke their home over the year , it be why they vote Labour for the first time just over three month ago and it be what my parent and grandparent work so hard for , for my sister and I . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak today , and I thank the people of Basingstoke for give I my opportunity to serve . rise — I call Adrian Ramsay , who have two minute , and I can then squeeze in one more speaker . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the new hon . member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) and hear about his pride in his constituency . our NHS provide amazing life - save , dedicate care every day , but we also know that people be too often let down . too many patient languish , often in pain , on long waiting list . in rural constituency such as mine , people often have to travel lengthy distance to access treatment . Lord Darzi point to systemic and chronic under - investment cause by austerity in funding and capital starvation . resilience be strip from the NHS before covid , and we owe it to those whose life be lose or change forever by the pandemic never to repeat these same mistake and to do thing differently . however , the Chancellor ' s argument about tough decision and a black hole of £ 22 billion be alarmingly similar to those make by the previous Government . it be good to see the Chancellor signal some movement on fiscal rule , and I hope this logic will apply to support our public service , which be a crucial investment in our future . put wellbee at the heart of what we do should help we navigate how we support the NHS . bad planning , poor housing , weak transport and divisive social policy have a huge impact on health outcome , for example . so I welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment and he have be bullish about reform , but he have not be specific about exactly what he mean by private sector involvement in the delivery of NHS service . there be real reason to keep delivery of the NHS public , and not to outsource it to private provider . the Secretary of State have make statement about use the private sector to reduce waiting list , but he have not explain whether he consider this to be a short - term plan while the NHS be be rebuild , or a permanent policy . Lord Darzi ' s diagnosis be helpful and the emphasis on prevention be hugely welcome , but to deliver it we require bold action and investment . order . thank you so much , but please be seat . fix the NHS be our great task and our solemn promise , for there be much to fix after 14 year of manage chaos and decline under the neglectful eye of our mostly absent predecessor . the candid assessment of the state of the NHS from Lord Darzi be truly alarming , and as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have say , it present an accurate diagnosis of our difficulty . the report make clear many of the problem of resource , management and structure , but today I would like to speak up for medical research , of which this country have such a proud record . we all know of the catastrophic potential of infection , witness so very recently during the covid pandemic . indeed , like many of we new Members , I too catch covid right here in this House in the crush to hear the King ' s Speech . I do hope that hon . member of a certain age , such as myself , will remember to get vaccinate . however , let we remember Jenner , who devise vaccination , Lister , who pioneer antisepsis , and Fleming , who discover penicillin . these british scientist lead the fight against infection be probably responsible for save more life than any other people in the long history of medicine . last week , we learn of the first successful trial from Oxford of vaccine for ovarian cancer , and we will see many amazing advance in the year to come . today , we can be excited about molecular genetic , artificial intelligence and the huge power of our people ' s NHS datum to unravel so many of the mystery of modern medicine . I know that our Government will develop bold plan to repair the embattle NHS , but on this day I urge our brilliant new Government to pledge to do their utmost to support vital NHS medical research , which carry such promise . order . thank you so much , but you must not continue speak when I be stand . I call the shadow Minister . I be mindful of the need to be brief , but I wish to congratulate the hon . member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) , for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) , for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) , and for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) on excellent maiden speech . when I first hear that the Government have commission Lord Darzi to conduct a report on the NHS I wonder two thing : why have this report be commission , and why have a former Labour Minister be ask to do it ? the answer to the first question be still somewhat unclear after this debate . much of the information be publicly available , and Labour have access to the civil service for six month before the general election , as be routine to help with planning . before the election , in its manifesto Labour claim to have a plan , and the Secretary of State say that he and the Government have a 10 - year plan to reform and modernise the NHS . in the draft speech that I bring to this debate I be go to say that I assume that be the case , so where be that plan and when will it be publish , but during the debate the Secretary of State say that he will soon meet to engage with patient and staff who will write the plan . do it exist , or be it yet to be write ? give that Lord Darzi specify that policy suggestion be outside the remit of his report , and notwithstanding the amount of time and dedication he have put into it , what primary purpose do it serve ? be it simply a political statement to cover the right hon . Gentleman ' s plan and an increase in taxis in the Budget when it come ? will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not because there be not much time . a potential answer to the second question of why a former Labour Minister have be ask to conduct the report be its silence on a number of issue , for example on increase the number of medical student . I could not find any reference in the report to the five additional medical school that be commission and open by the former Conservative Government , and whose first new doctor have recently graduate . indeed , I find no mention of the NHS workforce plan at all . my constituency mailbag , no doubt much like that of member across the House , be full of letter from elderly people who be frightened that their home will be cold this winter , and that they will become ill , or perhaps even die , as a result . it be notable — again , perhaps this answer my second question — that despite be publish two month after the Government ' s announcement about the winter fuel allowance , the Darzi report appear to be silent on the subject . the chief medical officer say that , " cold home and fuel poverty be directly link to excess winter death " in his annual report from 2023 . be it remarkable that this report by a former Labour Minister do not mention cold home ? perhaps it do not recognise the impact of such a decision because no impact assessment have be make . on 29 July , I ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer what estimate she have make of the impact that her winter fuel payment change would have on the NHS . her answer imply to I that that be something that have not be give enough consideration . on 5 September I submit a write question to the Secretary of State , ask whether he would make an assessment of the winter fuel payment change on a range of factor relate to the NHS and the health of elderly people , include hospital admission , death , GP appointment and so on . the answer to whether he will do something or not be clearly " yes " , " no " , or " I have already do it " , but it seem the Government struggle to answer that question and I would be grateful if the Minister could do so today : will the Secretary of State make an assessment of the various effect of the change to the winter fuel allowance and the consequent cold home on the NHS and the health of elderly people ? early , the Secretary of State say that investment without reform would reduce productivity . he even say that it be " kill with kindness . " action , however , speak louder than word , so what substantial productivity gain come with the junior doctor ' 22 % pay rise ? none . what productivity benefit arise from a significant increase in the wage for train driver ? none . the NHS and the Government be now face potential future industrial action from group seek similar pay deal . the Government ' s willingness to take money from pensioner and give it to already well - pay train driver suggest that such union demand will be successful , far create a vicious cycle of industrial action that will ultimately be damaging to patient . I fear that the Labour party see the Darzi report as a political bludgeon rather than as a blueprint for any meaningful reform . there be undeniable challenge within the NHS — something that I as a doctor see — and we must be honest about they , but instead of a constructive conversation on policy , Labour bring partisan attack to the table . we now need real leadership , specific reform , and the courage to make the tough decision that will keep the NHS suitable for generation to come . I thank all member for their contribution to this debate . we should all be grateful to Lord Darzi for his rapid and comprehensive review , although we still do not seem to know at the end of this debate whether the opposition agree with the diagnosis or not . essentially , it be evidence of their record , and they do not like it . this have be a passionate debate with colleague from all part of the House address how 14 year of failure have damage their constituency , let down the people they represent and break the NHS . Lord Darzi ' s report be as breathtaking as it be distress , whether it be discuss the chaos unleash by Andrew Lansley ' s top - down reorganisation , the plunge in productivity and patient satisfaction , the disproportionate impact of the pandemic compare with country across the world or the failure to modernise way of work . it beggar belief how the previous Government allow that to happen on their watch . behind every page of that report , we should remember the real - world suffering cause by the neglect . it be a record of miss opportunity and squander potential . those thing be all the more galling for I , as someone who have work in the NHS and who still care passionately about its survival . in fact , the reorganisation be so bad that it lead I to stand for Parliament . I would not be here today , be it not for Andrew Lansley . the House can make of that what they will . when I work for the NHS under the previous Labour Government , I see at first hand the power of politic to improve the system . I see a health service deliver the short waiting time and high patient satisfaction in history , and since then I have see it decline in my constituency and the effect that have have on my constituent . when the system let they down , they have no other option . they can not afford to go private , they do not have the asset to sell and their family be in the same boat . health inequality and inequality of access lead I to join the health service , and the Lansley reform drive I to become an MP . that be why I will not rest until we have complete our health mission to restore the fundamental promise of our NHS : that it will be there for all our constituent when they need it . the charge sheet be too long for I to make too many comment on it . in the short time I have , I will address the maiden speech in particular . I work with my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) in opposition . I be so delighted to hear that he have win the day after the election . he talk about the global reach of South Norfolk and in particular productivity at the University of East Anglia , which I go to as a student 40 year ago this week , astonishingly . it make a huge contribution to the economy of South Norfolk , and I know that he will be a good champion . I wish he good luck on SEND and justice . South Norfolk be lucky to have he . the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) give a lovely history of her constituency . she move we all with the tragic story of the death of her constituent ' 19 - year - son . she have keep she promise to that mother already in her place today . my hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) be a worthy successor to his predecessor . he rightly highlight poverty , particularly in rural area , and he speak so eloquently about his father , his care and sadly his death . that be an experience that many people will recognise from covid and will be move by . I be pleased he be use that experience in this place . his dad and Councillor Thelma would be very proud of he . my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) — I be delighted to have another new Labour Member in the south - west — do a great campaign while have a young family . his passion and pride for Gloucester shine through , whether that be the Romans ' military innovation or that Viennetta come from Gloucester , which I do not know — shame on I . he want to achieve for all the people in the rich diversity of Gloucester . the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) be the first and long - serve Member for his constituency , and long may that last . I look forward to his explain black hole to we all . it be not a thing , but the hon . member for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) certainly win the award for suited people come to represent their constituent . she speak movingly about her predecessor and the cost of care for her partner . finally , my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) speak movingly about his family ' s hard work and dedication that lead he to this place . Cromwell and Jane Austen would be very proud of his editing capability . there be an old irish joke about somebody travel down from the city to a wedding in the countryside . he can not remember how to get there so ask a farmer for direction . the farmer say , " I wouldn ' t start from here . " none of we want to start from here , but this be where the last Government leave we , with a broken nhs , a social care system on its knee and an economy fail its people . that be why early next year the Government will publish a 10 - year plan set out how we will deliver the three big shift that will make the NHS fit for the future . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say , the choice before we today be to reform or die . there be no quick fix . but as Lord Darzi remind we , the NHS ' s " vital sign be strong " . we can tap into the immense reservoir of dedication and talent in our university , life science sector and , above all , the NHS . get the NHS back on its foot will be a team effort . work with patient and the public , alongside 1 . 5 million NHS staff , we will rebuild our public service , fix the foundation of our economy — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . order . we do manage to get in 16 speaker even though we have a short amount of time due to front - Bench contribution . Hamas attack : First Anniversary Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow this important Adjournment debate . today be the anniversary of Hamas ' s terrorist attack on Israel . it be a pogrom in which at least 1 , 195 Israelis and 79 foreign national from some 30 country be murder , over 4 , 800 people be injure and more than 250 man , woman and child be take hostage . it be the bad terrorist attack in Israel ' s history and the bloodiest day in the history of the jewish people since the Holocaust . I thank my hon . friend for give way so early in his speech . it be worth pause to reflect on the fact that the atrocity be so bad and so many people lose their life at the hand of Hamas because Hamas intend for that to be the case . in the year that have follow , so many innocent people have lose their life , suffer and be displace . will he join I in condemn Hamas and its evil action , which take place on 7 October ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention and completely agree that Hamas be a terrorist organisation that set out that day to murder as many innocent civilian as it possibly could . talk of statistic risk rob the victim of their humanity and precious individuality . I want to touch on some of the incredible story from that day . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward the debate ; I speak to he beforehand . I bring to his and the House ' s attention a lady I meet when I be in Israel the week after Easter : Amanda Damari , who speak yesterday about her daughter Emily , who be kidnap . she have live that kidnap every day . do he agree that we salute the bravery , the courage and the determination of those family to have those hostage — their friend and family member — home to enjoy life once again ? I agree with the hon . member that the courage of the family of the hostage be remarkable . so many in the House will have speak to those family . their strength and resolve be extraordinary and empower all the rest of we . I thank my hon . friend for be so generous with his time in this really important Adjournment debate . I , too , have the opportunity to meet Mandy Damari , who want our government to acknowledge that her daughter Emily be a british citizen and require the support of her Government to do everything they can to allow for her release as a hostage . I very much thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I , too , have speak to Mandy , and she be clear that her daughter be a british citizen . there be four other individual be hold hostage who be connect to Britain , and they also need to come home as soon as possible . I want to touch on some of the other group from that day : the group of pensioner on a day trip in the Dead sea who be gun down in Sderot after their minivan develop a flat tyre ; the young partygoer massacre at the Supernova music festival , some of whom , like many woman elsewhere that day , be subject to " unspeakable violence perpetrate with shocking brutality " , accord to the UN Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict ; and the 12 - year - old british - israeli twin Yanni and Liel , who be murder alongside their great aunt and their grandfather at Kibbutz be ' eri . so little of Liel ' s body be recover that some of her toy be bury instead . Liel and Yanni be two of the 15 Britons murder on 7 October . I will never forget the smell of smoke that hang in the air when I visit that kibbutz in March this year . it will stay with I forever , as will the feeling of isolation as I stand at the site of the Nova festival . the silence be break only by family mourn . I hope my hon . friend will agree with I that while today we have hear call for ceasefire and aid , what be most important in this debate be that we continue to call for the hostage to be return to their family . the clarion call from this Parliament be " bring they home . " Hamas be indiscriminate in their killing and in those that they drag back to their terror tunnel in Gaza . they range from nine - month - old Kfir Bibas and four - year - old brother Ariel to 85 - year - old Shlomo Mansour . Shlomo survive the 1941 Farhud pogrom in Iraq and emigrate to Israel at the age of 13 . on 7 October , Shlomo be kidnap from his home at the small , quiet kibbutz of Kissufim . last month I meet Shlomo ' s granddaughter , Noam . I also meet Eviatar David ' s mother , Galia , and brother , Ilay . on 7 October , 23 - year - old Eviatar be seize at the Supernova festival . his family and friend hold weekly dance and jam session in Tel Aviv ' s Hostages Square to raise awareness of his continue plight . I also meet Sharone Lifshitz , the daughter of 85 - year - old Yocheved and 84 - year - old Oded . on 7 October the couple be take from their home in Kibbutz Nir Oz . Yocheved be free after two week , but Oded remain in captivity . Oded have spend his life campaign for peace and palestinian right . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate on this profoundly sad occasion . I wish to draw attention to a thread that have go through everything he say , which relate to the nature of the community on the Gaza border that be attack . one of the tragic irony be that this be an attack on community that be almost all kibbutzim and moshavim . these be idealistic community found on a co - operative ethos , the resident of which practise what they preach about co - existence and peace . I visit such community in peacetime . they be bucolic and idealistic . the people there speak about send money across the border to people they know in Gaza through third country , in order to support they . they organise transport to hospital for people from Gaza . they be people strain every sinew to bring about peace and who believe in a two - state solution . I can not stop think about the horror that be visit on they that day . I thank my hon . friend for give we the opportunity to honour the memory of the people who suffer on that day . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and could not agree more with his experience of the kibbutz . in July 2023 I visit Kibbutz Kfar Aza , which be found by the Mizrahi refugee from Morocco and Egypt in 1951 . the kibbutz be so close to Gaza that it be possible to hear the mosque ' call to prayer . over lunch with the kibbutznik , they tell we about the ever - present danger of rocket attack and the terror tunnel that Hamas have attempt to dig nearby . they also speak of their compassion for the ordinary people of Gaza just a couple of mile away . I also visit Kfar Aza just a few week before the horrific attack by Hamas on 7 October . the visit have a profound impact on I , especially in the light of what follow just a few short week later . I listen to Emily Damari ' s mum Mandy at the memorial in Hyde park yesterday , plead with we all who be present to do something to help her daughter . as a mum to an Emily , who be exactly the same age as her Emily will be now , I be here tonight to ask if my hon . friend will join I in plead with the Minister and our government to work night and day to ensure that Emily and the other 100 hostage still be hold in unimaginable horror in Gaza be release as soon as humanly possible . I join my hon . friend ' s call for the hostage to be return at the soon possible opportunity . the kibbutznik we speak to use to stage an annual festival in which they would gather to fly kite adorn with the word " peace " , " shalom " and " salam " at the nearby border . last year , the annual kite festival be set for Saturday 7 October . as always , the Kutz family , whose brainchild the festival be , have prepare the kite , but there be no kite or message of hope and peace that dark day . instead , Aviv Kutz , his wife Livnat and his teenager child Rotem , Yonatan and Yiftach be murder in their home by Hamas terrorist . they be find in a bed , with Aviv ' s arm around his wife and child . their unflown kite be find nearby . the family be among more than 60 kibbutz resident who be massacre that day . this have be a horrifying and harrowing year of suffering . as many have say , we must do all we can to bring the fighting to an end as quickly as possible , with the hostage home from Gaza , aid into Gaza and a path to a long - term and sustainable peace . the impact of that terrible day have be feel 2 , 000 mile away in what the Prime Minister have rightly describe as the rise of vile hatred in our own community . antisemitic incident have reach their high total . nearly seven in 10 british Jews report that they be less likely to show visible sign of Judaism . nearly half say that they have consider leave the UK because of antisemitism . jewish child be unable to wear their uniform on their way to school . jewish student be intimidate on their campus . jewish place of worship be deface and graffitie . this be intolerable in modern Britain . I know that a number of Front Benchers would have wish to speak in this debate , include my hon . friend the Member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , who have be steadfast in their support throughout the last year . I be sure that the whole House will join I in say that we stand with and by our jewish fellow citizen in the face of this hatred . the 7 October atrocity show humanity at its bad , expose once again what Holocaust survivor Sam Kaltman term the thin and fragile " veneer of civilisation " . but , as the late Martin Gilbert argue , even on the dark day there be spark of light . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate on the anniversary of the attack , and for deliver such an eloquent speech . as we mark a year since the appalling attack , I proudly add my voice to the Bury Faith Forum and the Bury Council of Mosques in emphasise our share bond of faith and humanity , and in call for a sincere , last resolution for Israel and Palestine that begin with the safe return of hostage and an immediate ceasefire . do my hon . friend agree that even in these darkest of time , the small shard of light shine brightest , and that that light be the release of the hostage ; a ceasefire ; a sustainable , peaceful , secure Israel ; and a sustainable , peaceful palestinian state ? I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention . I completely agree that follow the despair we have see over the last year , there have to be light at the end of the tunnel . the work do in his constituency to bring together community across the country will be vital . I want to end by talk about Emily , who a number of member have mention . I think we have all be touch by the campaign that her mother Mandy continue to run in her name . she say that Emily have never lose touch with her british root ; Emily love Spurs , Robbie Williams and Cadbury ' s chocolate button , and make a fine cup of tea . emily ' s family have not see she for 366 day . she be violently kidnap from Kibbutz Kfar Aza . her beloved puppy be shoot and kill in her arm as Emily be drag from her home in her pyjama . Hamas have refuse the Red Cross access to Emily and the other hostage , but news of Emily come during last November ' s hostage release . in the tunnel , those who be release say that Emily have be singe a song to the young girl every morning , call " Boker shel kef " — " it ' s a great morning " . Emily have not give up hope . her family have not give up hope , and we must not give up hope . we must bring home the british hostage — Emily , Eli , Oded , Avinatan , Tsachi — and all the hostage . we hold in our heart all the hostage , all those whose life be lose on 7 October , those who mourn they , and all those innocent Israelis and Palestinians who have endure pain , sorrow and grief over the past year . I be hugely grateful to my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) for secure this timely debate , and to all hon . member who intervene and be attend this debate . I give particular recognition to my hon . friend ' s work as the recently appoint chair of Labour Friends of Israel . the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , the Minister with responsibility for the middle east , be of course due to respond to this debate , but he be participate in commemorative event relate to this subject , so it be my privilege to respond on behalf of the Government . I thank my hon . friend the Member for High Peak for his candid , at time shocking , and powerful speech , in which he set out the human story at the heart of the terrible event of 7 October . with he , I pay tribute to the courage and resilience of the family of all those who lose their life , and all those who be still hold hostage . a year since the bad terror attack in Israel ' s history , we remember all those kill at the hand of Hamas in that barbaric attack , their family and their loved one , and condemn those responsible . without doubt , it be the bloodiest day in jewish history since the Holocaust , a day we should never have see , and would rather we never need to mark . distressingly , for some family , the nightmare persist , as their love one continue to be hold by Hamas . let I be clear : that be utterly unacceptable . they must be release immediately . as the Prime Minister say in his statement early today , and as have be mention by many hon . member this evening , one of the hostage who still remain in Gaza be Emily Damari . she be , as we have hear , a british citizen who be brutally attack and kidnap on the morning of 7 October . a year later , as we have hear , she be still hold by Hamas , surround by the death and darkness of the tunnel that continue to haunt her love one . as we have hear , Emily ' s story be just one of the painful reminder of the suffering that many family — some british , some British - link , and many , many more — continue to endure at the hand of Hamas . their pain be our pain . we continue to demand the immediate and unconditional release of Emily and all the other hostage . my hon . Friend give many , many other example . those chilling example be proof of Hamas ' s cruelty . our thought today be with all those who lose love one on 7 October and those still cruelly hold by Hamas . my hon . friend be absolutely right to bring to the attention of the House — we have all see it in our community — the deeply worrying rise in antisemitism and hatred across the world , include in this country . there be no place for this hatred in our community and society . let we be clear : Hamas want to not just attack Israel but send a signal to Jews everywhere . it want they to feel scared and unsafe , regardless of where in the world they happen to be . the global rise in antisemitism follow the attack highlight the need for urgent collective action to eliminate this abhorrent ideology for good . that be why the Government be resolutely commit to work with the jewish community to address the challenge that it face in the UK and , indeed , across the world . I have hear from jewish community in my city of Cardiff about their fear and their live experience of antisemitism and hate . I have also meet representative of the Board of Deputies of British Jews , the Community Security Trust and many other organisation , and I pay tribute to their work . today the Foreign Secretary and the Minister with responsibility for the middle east meet member of the jewish community to outline the Government ' s support for they , and to remember and honour the victim of 7 October . I be proud that this year the UK hold the presidency of the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ; that allow we to demonstrate our global leadership in combat antisemitism and promote Holocaust remembrance , research and education . tragically , since that dreadful day , we have see intolerable death and destruction in Gaza . More than 41 , 000 people have now die , and over half of all identify body be those of woman and child . we reiterate that no matter how difficult the circumstance , all party must act in accordance with international law , but the fact that this conflict be continue and intensify by the day be a matter of deep concern to member in all part of the House . it should compel we to redouble our effort to achieve an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , and to pursue the path of politic and diplomacy , because that be the good way to get the hostage out and to stop the devastation for all . we be particularly concerned about the restriction on humanitarian aid , with winter approach . those restriction must be lift , so that the UN and humanitarian agency can do their job safely , in accordance with the UN mandate . let I turn to what be happen in the wide region . the late escalation , involve lebanese Hezbollah and the iranian attack on Israel , be yet another blow to regional stability , and we be deeply concerned about the significant number of civilian casualty . the UK be the first G7 country to call for an immediate ceasefire between lebanese Hezbollah and Israel , on 19 September , and the Prime Minister have make it clear that we stand with Israel and recognise its right to self - defence in the face of iranian aggression . Iran ' s malign role in the region be move the region far towards escalation , and we call on Iran to step back from the brink , because we must avoid this conflict spiral out of control and into a wide regional war . let I say something about how the United Kingdom be respond , which will cover many of the point raise this evening . let I first reassure all member that we continue to work with partner across the region to secure the release of all remain hostage , include british national and those with a close connection to the UK . that have be a priority since day one of this Government . the Foreign Secretary have visit Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories twice , and the Prime Minister have speak to both Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas . they have also meet the family of those be hold by Hamas , and the Prime Minister host a commemoration event last week to honour their resilience and undefeated spirit during these challenge time . the UK will remain a vital security partner to Israel as it face threat from Iran and its malign partner in the region , who be pursue its annihilation . we will also play our full diplomatic role in end this conflict and create a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . an immediate ceasefire be an absolutely necessary first step towards that goal . in response to the humanitarian crisis , we treble our aid commitment to the Occupied Palestinian Territories in the last financial year , and we will maintain significant funding for trust aid agency on the ground . we lift the UK ' s fund pause on the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , follow robust action take to ensure its neutrality , and release £ 21 million to support UNRWA ' s humanitarian appeal in Gaza and its provision of basic service . we need calm head and an urgent focus on a negotiate political solution to end this cycle of violence , so that israeli , palestinian and lebanese civilian can return to their home and live in peace and security . together with our ally , the United Kingdom remain determined to steer the region towards a path of peace and reconciliation , and we have a two - state solution at the heart of our approach . in conclusion , a year on from Hamas ' s horrific attack on 7 October , the United Kingdom remain firmly committed to Israel ' s defence and security . those kill , injure and take on 7 October and since , and their family , will be in all our mind , especially today . this escalate regional conflict be in no one ' s interest , which be why we be call for an immediate ceasefire . finally , I reiterate that we will continue to use every diplomatic lever to bring that about and secure the release of hostage in co - ordination with our partner . we all want to see they bring home . question put and agree to . House adjourn .