Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — child remand in Custody what recent assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the number of child be remand to custody . Custody be reserve for those convict or accuse of the most grave offence , and the total number of child in detention have fall by 82 % since 2010 . before a child can be remand , the court must be satisfied that it be very likely that the defendant will receive a custodial sentence , and must have explicitly consider and reject the option of remand he or she into local authority care . some 44 % of place in youth custody be take up by child and young people on remand who do not go on to receive a custodial sentence . yet child hold in young offender institution spend most of their time lock up in their cell , amid high level of violence . do the Minister think that that be the good place to spend time during adolescence ? the hon . Lady make an important and compassionate point . it be absolutely right that we should invest in the estate , and I be pleased that we be invest in a new secure school , which will open soon . she make an important point about the decision to remand . those decision be make by independent judge — that be correct — but I hope that she will join I in recognise that the reduction in the overall number of child in custody by 82 % since 2010 be a positive thing . when I be prosecute , young people be go inside for be passenger in vehicle take without consent . now , they be inside only for the most grave offence . will the Lord Chancellor take into consideration one of the recommendation of the Wade report on sentencing for murder ? the definition of " child " should be reconsider . at the moment , someone who be 16 or very often 17 might be try when they be 18 , but they be sentence as if they be a child . surely the question should be the crime rather than the age . we have alter the sentencing regime such that the court can take into account what can be quite significant gap between the sentencing regime that apply to a 17 - year - old and that which apply to an 18 - year - old . the court now have additional discretion to ensure that if somebody be very close to their 18th birthday , they can be treat as more mature , which can mean , in appropriate case , that the punishment will be more severe . I call the shadow Minister . almost two third of child on remand in youth detention do not go on to receive a custodial sentence , and 17 % be acquit , mean that they be free from a criminal charge altogether . it cost between £ 129 , 000 and £ 306 , 000 per year to keep just one child on remand in youth custody . do the Minister view that as the good use of public money , or do he feel that it could be manage in a more efficient and effective way with an alternative remand provision ? in 2010 , the total number of child in custody be over 3 , 000 ; that figure be now around 500 , so there have be a significant reduction . the decision of whether to remand be a matter for the judge . they can remand in custody only if there be substantial ground for believe that , if release on bail , the child will commit further offence or indeed fail to surrender . we be also invest million of pound in Greater Manchester , for example , to see whether there be other option in remand child into local authority accommodation and not necessarily into custody . public Confidence in Victim Support what step his Department be take to help ensure public confidence in the support provide to victim throughout the criminal justice process . what step his Department be take to help ensure public confidence in the support provide to victim throughout the criminal justice process . with the Victims and Prisoners Bill , we be put the victim code on a statutory footing . it include a right for any victim of crime to be signpost by the police to correct and appropriate support service . we have quadruple victim fund since we take office in 2010 to over £ 150 million a year , and have recruit almost 1 , 000 independent sexual violence adviser and independent domestic violence adviser into the criminal justice system . in addition , we provide a range of freephone support line , include a 24 / 7 hotline for rape . rapist , domestic abuser and stalker can not be convict if trial be not go ahead , and victim be drop out after be make to wait year for justice . where be the Government ' s plan to tackle the record court backlog , which be make victim wait year for justice ? we be do a huge amount to drive down the backlog , which be principally a result of the pandemic . we have increase the fee for both solicitor and barrister by 15 % ; we have keep open more than 20 Nightingale court ; and we be do everything within our power to drive down waiting time . bear in mind that Harrow Crown court be not set to reopen for another year because of Ministers ' failure to invest in its repair early enough , what confidence can victim of crime in Harrow have that Ministers be go to get those who be accuse of those crime to justice much more quickly than be currently the case ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the issue with Harrow Crown court be that reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete be discover in that building . we be invest more than £ 220 million in the court estate , because we know how much it matter , not just so that the court be function , but so that the building convey the right sense of dignity so that people respect the process . Harrow be just one of 350 court in England and Wales . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Minister be right to recognise the work that be be do on the victim code , and I appreciate the Government ' s take on board a number of the recommendation make by the Justice Committee when we engage in pre - legislative scrutiny of that Bill . the Minister will know , however , that there be a particular issue with delay in case of rape and serious sexual offence , where case be take out of the list because prosecute counsel be not available — they simply can not be find . she rightly refer to the increase in fee for solicitor and defence counsel . do she agree that there be now just one piece of the jigsaw that need to be put in place : to bring the fee for prosecute counsel in those case up to the same level as those for defence counsel ? that would take about £ 1 . 5 million . will she sit down with the Attorney General and talk with she about how we can do that swiftly ? I can reassure my hon . and learn Friend , the Chair of the Select Committee , that I speak to the chair of the Bar Council about exactly that issue last week , but I want to provide he with further reassurance . first , there have be correspondence between the Lord Chancellor and the senior preside judge about any case of rape that be more than two year old . that correspondence be a couple of month old , and he say that all case would be list by July this year — that apply to 181 case in England and Wales . I also want to draw my hon . and learn Friend ' s attention to something I know he will be aware of : that we have increase the fee for section 28 hearing , which take place in an irregular sequence in the court listing , from £ 670 to over £ 1 , 000 . on Monday , the Daily Telegraph report that civil servant be try to block an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill that would legislate for the publication of an annual report on crime stat by nationality . do the Minister support the release of such a report , and what do she think civil servant be worried we will find out ? it be time to publish a report and restore trust among the general public . I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be not aware of that , but I know that an amendment have be suggest that be not within the scope of the Bill . my hon . friend ' s suggestion be a sensible one ; we already publish the number of foreign national offender in prison , but I understand the force of her question , and I be happy to meet she to discuss it far . More than 60 lawyer , campaigner , politician and academic have write a letter in support of the anti - violence against woman and girl campaigner and barrister Dr Charlotte Proudman , who be face disciplinary action after challenge a judge for take a " boy ' club attitude " in a ruling on a domestic abuse case . do the Minister agree that the racial , gender and class - base bias of the justice system must be address and that it be right to speak up against injustice ? will she join I in pay tribute to those who be campaign for a legal sector that genuinely represent , empower , and be accountable to the wide public ? I count myself as one of the people who campaign on violence against woman , and there be many other right hon . and hon . member across this House who do the same thing . the hon . Lady will understand , I hope , why I will not get involve in a disciplinary matter concern a particular barrister . I know what it be say have be say , and it will be for the relevant standard committee to decide whether or not the barrister be at fault . the Minister may be aware that I use to be the victim Minister , and when I be in that role , I try to stand up for victim whose love one have be kill by road traffic incident . it be fundamentally unfair that if someone be charge with death by careless driving , as compare with death by dangerous driving , the case be not appealable by the victim for leniency . be that something we be still look at , as be the case when I be in the Ministry ? I share my right hon . friend ' s profound concern about death cause by either dangerous or careless driving . as he know , it be the Conservative Government who create a criminal offence of death by careless driving . I will just make two point . first , on 28 June 2022 , the maximum penalty for the offence of death by dangerous driving be increase to life — previously , it be 14 year . secondly , we have just agree to extend the unduly lenient sentence scheme so that the complainant will have 28 day to put in their appeal to the Attorney General and the Solicitor General , who will have a further 14 day to contact the court . we hope that that will encourage more application , and of course , we keep the category of offence under careful review . I call the shadow Minister . victim should have the right to know who this government be let out of jail early . with today ' s news that , despite Ministers ' protestation to the contrary from the Dispatch Box , high - risk offender have be release early , why should the public have any confidence that this be a Government who put victim first ? I want to provide some reassurance to the shadow Minister . under our scheme , no sexual offender , no terrorist offender and nobody who have be convict of a serious violent crime or be convict for four year or more will be eligible for early release . I would just remind he that the slight distinction between our scheme and that conduct under the last Labour Government between 2007 and 2010 be that we have a governor lock . that mean that the governor of any prison can prevent an individual prisoner from be release early if they do not think that it be suitable to do so , and that be not the case under the last Labour Government . [ Official Report , 20 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 8WC . ] ( Correction ) Employment Tribunal Panels what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of propose reform to employment tribunal panel . the employment tribunal panel composition arrangement be now a responsibility of the senior President of Tribunals , and I understand that he intend to publish the response to the consultation on propose reform shortly . he have a statutory duty to consult my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor before make these arrangement , and my noble and learn Friend the parliamentary under - Secretary of State for Justice will be meet the senior President of Tribunals — I think tomorrow — to discuss his proposal as part of that duty . the introduction of tribunal fee previously lead to a 54 % drop in the number of case go forward , and the scheme be deem unlawful by the Supreme Court , so it beggar belief that the Government be look at reintroduce tribunal fee , and give a green light to bad employer to exploit worker , who will be deter from come forward . what do the Minister say to the 50 organisation , include the TUC , Citizens Advice , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and Liberty , that be call on the Government to reconsider the reintroduction of tribunal fee ? I thank the hon . member for his question . many of these issue be raise when the statutory instrument pass through Parliament . the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , who be the court Minister , have write to the senior President of Tribunals to convey those concern , and I think that be in part why my noble and learn Friend be meet the senior President of Tribunals tomorrow . [ Official Report , 15 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) I call the shadow Minister . the wheel of justice certainly turn slowly under this government , and hundred of thousand of people across the country be pay the price in the Crown court , the civil court , the family court and tribunal . at the end of 2023 , the employment tribunal backlog stand at more than 460 , 000 case . those be case affect worker who have be bully , worker who have be deny pay and worker who have be unfairly dismiss . do the Minister think that worker , like the Government , should just give up on the justice system , roll over and accept what employer do to they , or be there a new magic formula to sort this out ? the one thing the hon . Gentleman do not of course mention be the impact of the pandemic on the criminal justice system , and indeed on the employment tribunal system . [ hon . member : " oh , come on ! " ] opposition Front bencher do not like hear it , but they can not deny the impact of shut down the system , in effect , for two year . we have massively increase the resource available and we be work through the backlog , but that will take time . I call the SNP spokesperson . on a similar point , in a cost of living crisis , worker be now expect to pay to take their employer to an employment tribunal in case of wage theft , unpaid redundancy pay and compensation for unfair dismissal . quite frankly , it be outrageous that this be be levy at a time of intense pressure on family budget . do the Government not agree that access to justice must never be contingent on one ' s ability to pay , and that these propose change ought to be scrap to promote great fairness in the system ? I thank the hon . member for his question . we have introduce a regional virtual court to safeguard access to justice , and we will always make that available as far as it be possible to do so . as I say , we be work through the backlog at pace . rwanda : Asylum and Immigration if he will issue guidance to lawyer on the potential implication for the criminal justice process of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . the hon . Lady ask about the implication for the criminal justice system of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . to be clear , that Act relate to immigration and potentially administrative law . it do not substantially impact on the criminal law , and accordingly no specific guidance be require . I thank the Secretary of State for that response . may I praise the quick response from solicitor and the community in Glasgow to Rwanda removal , very much in the spirit of the Glasgow Girls and the Glasgow Grannies and Kenmure Street three year ago ? be there a deliberate policy to remove people from Scotland to England to prevent they from access legal aid , as they would be able and fully entitle to do in Scotland ? what guidance have be issue to lawyer in this respect ? lastly , what right do mps have to intervene in case of removal , because I have be tell that mps have be ask for wet signature from people who have be take to immigration removal centre in England . there be several question in there but the answer to the first question be no , that be not correct . the point about legal advice be very important : people should get legal advice so that they can make their point . that be why we be invest heavily : when the Illegal Migration Act 2023 come into force there will be a 15 % uplift ; we have invest £ 1 . 5 million to reaccredit senior caseworker ; and we be also pay for travel time . we recognise that ; the legislation be necessarily robust and we be also ensure people get the legal advice they need . I call Scottish National party spokesperson . I listen with great interest to that answer . my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) and for Glasgow North East ( Anne McLaughlin ) and I have constituent who have be remove from Scotland to England and threaten with deportation . can the Secretary of State answer this question : why be mp be deny access to their constituent ? it seem outrageous . do he not agree that this be unacceptable and that lawyer and their elect representative should not be impede by arbitrary barrier when access constituent who be threaten with deportation ? I would be more than happy to discuss that point with the hon . Gentleman . of course mps should have access in appropriate circumstance , but the critical point be for individual to get legal support — I say that with no discourtesy to he as a constituency MP . that legal support be important . as I have say , when the IMA come into effect we will increase funding by 15 % , pay for travel time and ensure the reaccreditation of senior caseworker . that be what individual need : support through legal advice , and that be what we be provide . Parc Prison what recent assessment he have make of the welfare of prisoner at HMP Parc . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question and also for she typically measure and sensitive contribution to yesterday ' s urgent question on this issue . ensure our prison be safe and secure for both staff and prisoner remain our top priority . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service have be work closely with G4S , the operator of HMP Parc , to ensure the welfare of prisoner , and I visit last month to see the work for myself . I be particularly conscious of the importance of that in light of the nine death in HMP Parc since March . as the Minister mention , yesterday I have the opportunity to raise in the House the very real concern of parent with son at Parc , particularly in relation to drug use . when I contact the prison two month ago it reply that in the year to September 2023 there have shockingly be 1 , 600 incident of self - harm in a prison of 1 , 800 inmate . do the Minister accept that parent have be ask particularly for mental health support for year and it have not be happen ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady again for her question . the provision of mental health support be absolutely vital ; it be obviously something that need to be do hand in hand and in partnership with the local health board in Wales . we continue to work closely with the health board both on the issue she have raise and more broadly on the issue underpin some of the challenge face in Parc . the Minister will be aware of the dire , indeed dangerous , situation we face at Chelmsford Prison three year ago , when the prison be place in special measure . he may have see the late inspection report which praise the improvement , especially in be a safe and more productive place and the work do to take drug and contraband out of the prison . I thank the Justice Secretary personally for the focus he give this issue when he be prison Minister , and congratulate the governor and the staff . do the Minister agree that the lesson from Chelmsford could help other prison such as Parc and that , with the right approach , even the bad prison can be turn around ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her dexterity in ask her question . she make a very important point in pay tribute to the work that have be do at Chelmsford prison by my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State , work with the team and all the staff there . I also note the close interest she have take and how much that mean to the staff and the team at her local prison . she rightly point out that there be opportunity to learn lesson from that which may well benefit prison such as Parc . child and young People : reoffende what recent assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of reoffende rate among child and young people . over the 10 year to 2022 , prove reoffende rate , caution and conviction for child and young people have fall from 40 . 4 % to 32 . 2 % . although there have be a slight uptick over the past year , the fact remain that reoffende by child and young people have fall significantly under this government . last week I see the powerful new play " Punch " by James Graham . I can not recommend it highly enough to all right hon . and hon . member , who be welcome to come to Nottingham Playhouse to see it . it raise important question about young man and their offend behaviour and shine a light on the potential power of restorative justice . what role do the Minister believe restorative justice can and should play in tackle reoffende , which , as he say , have rise for the first time in a decade among adult and child ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady not just for her question , but for her kind invitation to visit Nottingham Playhouse — it be just up the road from my constituency in Leicestershire , so I might take she up on that . in answer to her substantive question , although decision on restorative justice be a matter for judge — there be relevant consideration to take into account — I see restorative justice as one element of a package that can help to reduce reoffende and get child and young people who commit crime back on to the straight and narrow . prison : Illegal drug what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of trend in the number of drug find in prison over the last five year . the Government take a zero - tolerance approach to drug in prison , as be reflect in our policy approach , which have see £ 100 million - worth of investment into measure to tackle the smuggling of contraband , include drug , into prison . in the year end March 2023 , there be 19 . 7 % few incident where drug be find than in the year to March 2019 , reverse that pre - pandemic trend . there remain more to do , but it be important to note that progress have be make . the most recent report by hm inspectorate of prison into HMP Parc in 2022 find that almost half of prisoner have easy access to drug , and our current Welsh Affairs Committee inquiry into prison have receive evidence regard drug use , as well as the fact that Parc be understaffed and staff be inexperienced . in light of that evidence , and the recent death and surge in record violence in Parc Prison , would the Minister welcome a new inspection by the chief inspector ? give the £ 400 million cost of the contract for G4S to run the prison , have he give consideration to the Prison Service step in to manage it , as it have do with Birmingham Prison ? the hon . Lady make a number of point . in term of tackle drug , in Parc we have X - ray body scanner and the rapiscan system , and we have handheld device be roll out . in respect of her two specific question , any inspection be a matter for the chief inspector of prison . in term of the overall performance of Parc , it be important to remember that although there be challenge , which be address in the urgent question yesterday , Parc be rate as perform well and its contract be perform well . in the 2022 inspection , it get one measure of " good " and three of " reasonably good . " there be more to do , and we will continue to work with the prison , but the contract continue to perform well . I call the shadow Minister . the Government boast , as they have do just now , about their investment in new body scanner to detect drug on everyone enter a prison each day , yet a damn report in the Times find that the body scanner at HMP Bedford be not even staff . what be the point in spend £ 100 million on scanner if they be not even use ? before turn to the substance of the hon . Lady ' s question , may I take this opportunity to wish she a happy birthday ? [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] it be important to remember that this investment be across the estate . I be in HMP Wandsworth yesterday see the work be do there . in the context of Bedford , the body scanner be use at appropriate time in an appropriate manner . custodial and Community Sentencing if he will make a comparative assessment of the effectiveness of short custodial sentence and sentence serve in the community . Ministry of Justice reoffende statistic show that those serve a sentence of six month or less have a 59 % reoffending rate . for offender punish with suspend sentence or community order , the reoffende rate be 24 % . the Department ' s 2019 analysis of a match cohort of over 30 , 000 offender show low reoffende rate for those serve sentence in the community when compare with immediate custody of less than 12 month , avoid ten of thousand of potential crime . I agree with the Bishop of Gloucester that community payback scheme be often far more appropriate than short - term custodial sentence , particularly for woman prisoner . if my hon . Friend agree with that , do he also agree that we could expand the range of community payback activity to include , for example , help at good local charity such as the Nelson Trust and the Family Haven , and , especially during this summer season of litter pick across the country , keep Britain tidy ? I thank my hon . friend for that sensible question . I agree that community payback offer offender an opportunity to make visible reparation to their local community , with million of hour be deliver each year . as an example , this March , for the great british spring clean , offender spend thousand of hour clearing litter across the country . we be trialle a new way to deliver community payback through the rapid deployment pilot , which be launch last year . community payback team be work in partnership with local authority to see incident clean up within 48 hour ' notice , and we be now expand that to all 12 probation region . restorative justice in Northern Ireland have be an effective method of ensure that victim and perpetrator can at least come together and perhaps try to find a solution . it be also a way of ensure less sentence . have the Minister be able to look at the community restorative justice that we have do in Northern Ireland to ensure that those on the mainland who offend can have a new life as well ? I personally have not , but I gather that Minister of Justice official be abreast of that . I would like to meet the hon . gentleman to hear more about that from he personally . Prison Capacity what progress his Department have make on deliver 20 , 000 new prison place . what step he be take to increase prison capacity . thank to funding from the Prime Minister when he be Chancellor , we be deliver the large prison building programme since the victorian era , with 10 , 000 additional place on track to be deliver by the end of next year . to secure the pipeline of further prison , last October I announce an investment of £ 30 million to acquire land even far in advance to mitigate the risk of planning delay . we be also deliver an additional 460 rapid deployment cell across the estate . the National Audit Office warn the Government over four year ago that prison would run out of space by 2023 . of the promise 20 , 000 place , it have be reveal that only just over a quarter have be deliver , so as a result we see the Government spend £ 50 million rent out police cell , grim condition in overcrowded prison and a chaotic early release scheme . why have the Government prove incapable of avert this crisis ? as a result of the record amount of investment in prison , we bring on HMP Fosse Way , and we have HMP five Wells . I invite the hon . member to visit they , because these be excellent , modern prison with fantastic rehabilitative condition , provide an excellent opportunity to keep the public secure and prisoner rehabilitate . we will also be roll out HMP Millsike . we have plan permission for HMP Gartree . we be also roll out houseblock at Stocken , Rye Hill and Guys Marsh ; and there will be further one at Gartree . this be a Government who believe in building , and we be get on with the job . manage prison capacity be in part about ensure that we have enough prison officer , but be a prison officer can be both demanding and dangerous , with 70 % of prisoner between the age of 25 and 49 — at the peak of their physical fitness . my prison officer constituent tell I that , despite that , the officer retirement age be 68 , mean that staff well into their 60 be deal with young and often aggressive people . while it be important to retain experienced prison officer and recruit to the service , what consideration have my right hon . and learn Friend give to reduce the retirement age in line with policing ? prison officer be the absolute backbone of the system , and it be absolutely right that we should recruit and retain . I be pleased to say that in 2023 we recruit an additional 1 , 600 officer and , just as importantly , the resignation rate be come down , from 10 . 5 % to 8 . 5 % . that be really positive . on my hon . friend ' s point about retirement , it be worth know that the employee contribution rate to pension for prison officer be one of the most competitive in the public sector . that be exactly as it should be . on the specific point of retirement age , I will be happy to discuss that with she far . non - disclosure agreement whether he have have recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on the use of non - disclosure agreement in sexual assault , harassment and misconduct case . it be important to flag at the outset that confidentiality clause be only ever use in the civil context , rather than the criminal . with that in mind , we be table an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill to make any non - disclosure agreement void if it purport to restrict the right of an individual to report the same act to the police or to access any kind of medical or therapeutic support — a move that have be welcome by many , include the Law Society and the Bar Council . thousand of people be silence due to non - disclosure agreement and gag clause in case of allege sexual violence , bullying and harassment . the Legal Services Board have report that signatory of nda suffer devastating impact due to fear of retribution . Pregnant then Screwed have say that an estimate 435 , 295 mother have be gag by an NDA or confidentiality clause . the Bill table by my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) would end the misuse of nda in the workplace . why be the Government so hesitant about support a statutory ban ? as someone who spend more than a decade practise as an employment lawyer , I can tell the hon . Lady that there be a role for the confidentiality clause in any kind of compromise agreement when both side resolve their dispute without go to court , and without admission of liability or any finding of liability on either side . we recognise that when they be use in their most extreme form , particularly in the most high - profile sexual harassment claim , victim have tell we that they feel they could not go to the police or access counselling . we have right that wrong . however , I will stand up for confidentiality clause , and I want to correct slightly the hon . Lady ' s point : they be only really encounter where there be a dispute concern the Equality Act 2010 . that need to be immediately contextualise — it apply only in employment , education and in the provision of good and service . we have take the same step in relation to student through the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 . reoffende Rates what step he be take to reduce reoffende . reduce reoffende be a core mission of these Ministers and this Government . that be why we have prioritise accommodation for prison leaver and why we have invest heavily in employment , with prison employment lead and employment hub in every resettlement prison . crucially , the plan be work : in the two year to March 2023 , the proportion of prison leaver in employment six month post release more than double . clearly , provide safe and secure accommodation for ex - offender when they leave prison be the first and most important part of get they on the path to rebuild their life . what action be my right hon . and learn Friend take to ensure that that happen , so that people be not tempt to reoffend ? no one in this House have do more than my hon . friend to look after the plight of people who be homeless or at risk of homelessness . I be proud to say that the proportion of offender in home for their first night post release be 86 % . that be because we have roll out 12 week of guarantee community accommodation . I go to Luton and Dunstable and speak to a probation officer who have work there for 30 year , and he say that be the single most significant policy roll - out of his entire career . it be critical to ensure that prisoner and ex - offender can be rehabilitate . do the Secretary of State agree that reoffende rate would reduce far if we have a more concentrated attack on the illicit substance that continue to go into prison , as well as the massive use of prescription drug , which many people in prison tell I be cause problem for people close to release ? the hon . Gentleman raise an excellent point , and he be right . the reoffende rate be worth focus on : in 2010 it be around 31 % , and now it be 25 % . the reason for that be a combination of focus on accommodation , as we have just discuss , and employment so that people have a stake in society , as well as tackle substance abuse . we be look at technology with great focus , to ensure that people can be treat for their substance addition on the inside by the very clinician who will treat they on the outside . that continuity be vital to get they off drug and rehabilitate they . support for Jurors if he will make an assessment of the adequacy of support available to juror who have be adversely affect by sit on a jury . jury be a vital part of our criminal justice system , and jury service be an important civic duty . we want to do everything we can to help juror feel support as they undertake that important role , which be why the Government have announce our intention to test counselling session for juror who suffer mental and emotional strain follow a trial . that pilot will commence in 15 court this summer . currently , juror deal with extremely violent crime , witness ever - increasingly sophisticated and graphic material , often feel that they do not have sufficient aftercare to deal with their experience . they be advise to seek counselling only with their gp or the Samaritans . what discussion have the Minister have on increase the amount of post - trial support for juror when they have face potentially traumatic level of stress as a result of their experience ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , which be extremely relevant . as she can imagine , there have be extensive discussion between the Department and the judiciary about this . the senior preside judge have approve the test site for the pilot that I have just discuss . support of the type that we be provide in the pilot have not be provide before , so the pilot itself will inform an essential part of the judgment we make on whether and how we can carry on . immigration : legal aid what recent assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of legal aid provision for immigration case . access to legal aid matter . we have take action to broaden access in immigration and asylum case by : uplift fee for work do under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , when it commence ; provide up to £ 1 . 4 million this year for accreditation and re - accreditation of senior caseworker conduct legal aid work ; allow detain duty advice scheme provider to give guidance remotely , where appropriate ; and introduce payment for travel time between immigration removal centre and detain duty advice scheme surgery . the Bar Council of England and Wales have submit its grave concern to the Ministry of Justice ' s review of civil legal aid , cite that it be " not sustainable in its current form " and that it have significant concern " in relation to future availability of counsel " in immigration and asylum case . it also note that in real term civil legal aid fee have now halve compare with what they be 28 year ago . what be the next step to ensure the future of legal aid in immigration case , or be justice now for only the wealthy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important question . we be broaden access to legal aid . the mean test review , when fully implement , will put an additional £ 25 million into legal aid and bring an additional £ 2 million into the scope of legal aid . we be roll out the housing loss prevention advice service — that be another £ 10 million go in . there will be up to £ 141 million go into legal aid . we be also roll out the review of civil legal aid , which will report later this year . we will be issue a Green Paper in July to look at what we need to do to have a sustainable , resilient and well - resource system , because we want high - quality lawyer do civil legal aid . that be vital for the kind of country we want to be . Court case Backlogs what recent assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the case backlog in the criminal and civil court . we remain committed to reduce the outstanding case load across our court in England and Wales . to enable the court to get through more case , we have extend the use of 20 Nightingale courtroom this financial year , allocate £ 220 million for essential modernisation and repair work of our court building up to March next year , and fund unlimited sitting day , include 107 , 700 day during the most recent financial year , the high level since 2016 . for anyone who have be a victim of crime , delay in get case into court add massively to the stress and anxiety they experience . what would the Secretary of State say to any Member whose local magistrate court have 1 , 954 criminal case wait to be hear at the end of December 2023 ? would he say that a backlog of that scale be acceptable ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point about magistrate court . it be true that case load in magistrate court , which of course deal with over 90 % of crime — common assault , criminal damage , non - residential burglary and so on — be significantly low than they be during the pandemic . the particular pressure be in the Crown court . we make a decision of principle during the white heat of covid not to get rid of jury trial . now , I know that in Scotland the SNP Government be a little ambivalent about jury trial , but we think they be a very important part of the right of free - bear Britons . we will hold fast to they and we will put in resource : more Nightingale court ; more judge , by raise the retirement age ; and more legal aid . we will invest in and recover the system while hold fast to our principle . when I be a Justice Minister , I introduce virtual hearing so that case could proceed much more effectively . will the Lord Chancellor kindly update the House on the progress of those hearing ? I be delighted to hear from my right hon . friend , who be such a distinguished Minister in this Department . he do indeed introduce virtual hearing in our court , and time have prove how prescient he be , because that be the right thing to do . I welcome the recent decision by the Judicial Office to make remote hearing the default arrangement for bail application . in a wide context , a private Member ' s Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) , which be currently make its way through Parliament , will amend legislation so that magistrate and judge in magistrate , county and family court will be able to hear case remotely when that be appropriate . legal aid what progress he have make on implement the recommendation of the National Audit Office report on the Government ' s management of legal aid . the National Audit Office report on the management of legal aid be a valuable piece of work , and we be consider its conclusion carefully . the Government hugely value the work of legal aid lawyer , which be why we commission a review of civil legal aid to identify option for the delivery of a more effective , efficient and sustainable system for legal aid provider . a Green Paper contain policy option be plan for July this year . there be no provider of housing legal aid in the borough of Bedford , and the number of people live within 10 km of a provider of legal aid housing advice in England and Wales have fall from 73 % to 64 % in the last decade . do the Secretary of State agree that whatever legal redress be provide in the Renters ( Reform ) and Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bills will be meaningless if there be no legal aid system to enforce those reform ? I hope that the hon . Gentleman will welcome the £ 10 million that be go to the Housing Loss Prevention Advisory Service , which be a revolutionary step to ensure that those who be at risk of eviction can access the legal aid they require in order to make their case . I respectfully invite the hon . Gentleman to come and see I so that I can discuss this with he far and he can be a voice for his constituent , signpost they to the support that be available , because it be important for they to be aware of the support that the Government be provide . Domestic Abuse what step he be take to prevent domestic abuse perpetrator from use the justice system to extend control over victim . the Government have take significant step to prevent domestic abuser from use the justice system to extend control over their victim . section 65 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 prevent they from cross - examine their victim and require special measure to be available in court , and we have also amend prohibition order under section 91 ( 14 ) of the Children Act 1989 , which can bar any individual from make a further application to court without permission when abusive partner be judge to be bring victim back to court without reasonable purpose . my hon . friend take domestic abuse very seriously , but be she aware that perpetrator all too frequently seek to use the civil court to perpetrate further abuse of their victim , often with the support of legal aid and often use " expert " with no relevant qualification to make accusation of , for instance , parental alienation or child groom ? can she please reassure I that the Government be take this matter seriously , to ensure that perpetrator do not continue to use our court system to retraumatise their victim ? my right hon . Friend ask an excellent question , but let I first remind she that this be precisely the issue at which the section 91 ( 14 ) prohibition order be direct . moreover , one of the change make under the Domestic Abuse Act give the court themselves the power to make those order of their own volition , rather than wait for an application from the victim . as for the second part of my right hon . friend ' s question , to the extent that we be make change to legal aid , all those change be in favour of the victim . we be remove illiquid and contested asset from consideration of mean , all protective order can be obtain without any assessment of mean , and we be undertake a legal aid mean test review to make the test much more generous to victim . my right hon . friend ' s final point concern the so - call expert who give evidence on parental alienation . the Government do not recognise the concept of parental alienation , and do not believe that it be a syndrome capable of diagnosis . we have respond to the Domestic Abuse Commissioner on this subject in writing . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last session of Justice question , I have meet my G7 ministerial counterpart in Italy to discuss topic range from prevent illegal migration to tackle organise crime . furthermore , we have announce a new offence — in which , incidentally , my G7 colleague be very interested — prohibit the creation of sexually explicit deepfake , announce measure to remove parental responsibility from those convict of the rape of a child , make progress with the Litigation Funding Agreements ( Enforceability ) Bill in the House of Lords to support access to justice for those such as the postmaster , and introduce an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill to provide further protection for victim against unnecessary disclosure of counselling note . I have also attend the " Unlocking Investment in Ukraine " conference , which bring together ukrainian lawyer and eminent british jurist . we in this country understand the importance of a strong legal sector to secure Ukraine ' s future . the british people and this Parliament be determined to ensure that once it have win the war , Ukraine win the peace as well . with more than 80 , 000 child catch up in private family law proceeding , what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that the welfare of child be protect ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise private family law , because all too often people raise the issue of crime , but family matter too . I be really delighted that we have manage to secure funding from the Treasury to roll out early legal advice in private family law . alongside the Pathfinder pilot scheme , it be design to make the process of deal with private family dispute more seamless and less painful , and ultimately ensure that child be put first . People in Carshalton and Wallington , particularly woman , be be target in so - call " crash for cash " insurance scam . could my right hon . and learn Friend outline what support be available to victim of this sort of crime ? if someone be the victim of a " crash for cash " scam , they be likely to be the victim of an offence under the Fraud Act 2006 or , potentially , under the Road Traffic Act 1988 . we have quadruple the funding for victim of crime , who be entitle under the victim code to be keep update about the crime , to be notify about compensation and to be offer special measure if the case get to court . regardless of whether someone be the victim of " crash for cash " , theft or any other crime , the state should be there to provide the support they need . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this week the chief inspector of prison find that , at HMP Lewes , the Government ' s early release scheme be undermine safety and risk management . in one case , a high - risk prisoner be release early despite be a risk to child , have a history of stalking and domestic abuse , and be subject to a restraining order . be this the Secretary of State ' s idea of put public safety first ? I read that report with care and will be look very carefully at that specific case . it be important to read precisely what the chief inspector say . he say that that be an incident right at the beginning of the process , and he expect that thing would bed down as we move on . the critical point be that under the Government ' s scheme , if there be a concern about an individual who be propose to be eligible , the governor can impose a veto , which get the decision escalate to a panel . that be an important safeguard , and it be not present under the Labour scheme , as the hon . Lady well know . report after report ; failure after failure . at Parc Prison , nine people have die in just two month . at Bedford , cell be flood with raw sewage . at Wandsworth , a suspect terrorist escape last year , the prison be still not secure and the governor have resign . she have take responsibility . when will the Secretary of State ? the hon . Lady be right to say there be prison where the standard be not where we want they to be . there be something like 120 prison in the estate , and we be the party that create the urgent notification system so that these matter can be draw to the attention of the Government , but I will make the following point . there be prison that have fail in the past , and we have turn they around . take HMP Liverpool , which I go to . my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who be Chair of the Justice Committee , will remember that in 2017 there be a scathing report about the prison , which have be turn around . it be safe , decent and rehabilitative , and prisoner be do excellent work . or take HMP Chelmsford , which have a UN and have be turn around . we take this issue incredibly seriously , and we be the party that be invest record amount in our estate . in government , Labour boast that it would bring in three titan prison , but it bring in one . order . Secretary of State , this be topical . I have to get your colleague in , and I be sure you would not want they to miss out . a number of my constituent in Chipping Barnet tell I that they continue to have problem with delay in get court judgment implement by bailiff . will the Secretary of State do everything he can to tackle delay in the court and bailiff system , especially for possession proceeding , where there continue to be real problem , cause delay and cost ? I thank my right hon . friend for that important point . few than 1 % of tenancy require court action in 2019 , but for difficult case that do escalate to the court , the Government recognise the importance of make sure that the process be smooth and efficient . nearly 90 % of county court be currently list possession hearing within four to eight week after a claim be receive . on bailiff recruitment issue , we be run recruitment campaign and have reduce administrative burden to free up resource for bailiff to focus on enforcement activity . the Government ' s late panic measure to deal with the prison capacity crisis , include expand the early release scheme to 10 week , have simply fuel the probation crisis instead , with staff warn that many of these release be unsafe and result in recall in a matter of day . can the Minister confirm what specific extra resource he have recently put into this struggle service , so that it can cope with the sharp rise in probation workload ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the work of probation . I put on record — as I know my shadow would and I know she would — our gratitude to all those who work in our probation service . over the long term , since 2021 we have put an extra £ 155 million a year into the probation service , and 4 , 000 more staff in training . she will have also see the recent announcement make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor in respect of the probation reset to enable probation officer to focus their time on where it make the great difference and have the great impact . we know that our prison be extremely full , for the entirely understandable reason that the Lord Chancellor have set out , but that often mean that they can not do the job of rehabilitation that we would all like they to . will the Minister look again at the proposal I put forward with the Centre for Social Justice for a tough new sentence call the intensive control and rehabilitation order , to be serve in the community but under strict condition include GPS tag and compulsory course to reduce the likelihood of reoffende ? I can confirm to my hon . friend that official have review and consider icro , which involve the use of electronic monitoring , curfew arrangement and rehabilitative requirement target towards offender who would otherwise be in custody . in June last year , we begin a pilot of a scheme similar to the one he propose , involve intense supervision court , which divert offender with complex need away from short custodial sentence and provide they with wrap - around , multi - agency support to target the root cause of their offend behaviour . today , at an event organise by my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , I be meet my constituent who be encourage by the solicitor firm SSB Law to pursue no win , no fee claim against defective cavity wall insulation provider . SSB Law subsequently go into administration , leave my constituent with extortionate legal cost from defendant lawyer . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the Solicitors Regulation Authority have the necessary power to provide my constituent with the protection , compensation and justice that they deserve ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important point on behalf of her constituent , and I will write to she . it be now five year since my constituent , Ellie Gould , be brutally murder in her own home . her assailant be give a paltry 12 - and - a - half - year sentence . recently , a man who kill a stranger in the street be give 25 year , but simultaneously , on the same day , someone who cut his wife up into hundred of piece and dispose of the part in a river be give a sentence start at only 15 year . the Wade review recognise the terrible disparity between domestic murder and non - domestic murder , and call for that disparity to be correct . will the Secretary of State now tell we when he be go to reply to the Wade review ? I hope that he will take due account of it and will equal up the sentence so that people who be guilty of domestic murder pay the same penalty as those who kill someone in the street . in response to the Wade review , we have increase sentence by introduce statutory aggravating factor for murder that be precede by control or coercive behaviour , that involve overkill or that be connect with the end of a relationship . we have also consult publicly on sentence starting point for murder precede by control or coercive behaviour and for murder commit with a knife or other weapon . the Government be carefully consider the response to the consultation and will publish their response in due course . the urgent notification issue last week to Wandsworth Prison raise the same issue find at HMP Bedford six month ago . both reveal a horror show of violence and overcrowding in filthy environment , with horrendous level of self - harm and drug misuse . the staff try their good but lack experience . do the Minister accept that it be his Government ' s funding cut and policy failure that have deliver a broken justice system that offer little hope of reform for prisoner or protection for victim ? no , I do not accept the premise of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , which may not surprise he . in respect of Bedford Prison , which he and I have speak about , we continue to put the investment into both staff and the prison to make progress follow that urgent notification . a constituent recently attend my surgery in Bishop Auckland to disclose her serious concern about poor communication from both the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service and the family court - appoint child ' s guardian in her case . this be an extremely distressing time for she and her family , so good communication be surely key . how can the Minister ensure that my constituent will receive the support and advice they need in a timely fashion ? I thank my hon . friend for be so assiduous in raise this important matter on behalf of her constituent . we be invest heavily in the family system to deal with precisely these issue . if something have go wrong in that specific case , perhaps she will be kind enough to come to see I so that we can discuss it far . there be 2 , 796 prisoner with indeterminate sentence for public protection languish in our prison , 705 of whom be 10 year over their original tariff and 112 of whom have a tariff of less than two year and be now over tariff by 15 year or more . the MOJ ' s refresh IPP action plan clearly be not work , so what do the Secretary of State plan to do to fix this dire situation ? the total number of ipp be slightly high than that but , look into the datum , the really significant factor be that , whereas there be some 6 , 000 ipp prisoner in 2012 , the number who have not be release be down to around 1 , 200 . our action plan try to address that . our reform be design to ensure that , when IPP prisoner be release , they do not face a licence period of 10 year , which can lead to they be recall at any time . reduce it to three year be a humane and sensible way of try to erase this stain on the conscience of our justice system . yesterday , the New Yorker publish a 13 , 000 - word inquiry into the Lucy Letby trial , which raise enormous concern about both the logic and the competence of the statistical evidence that be a central part of the trial . the article be block from publication on the UK internet , I understand because of a court order . I be sure that court order be well intend , but it seem to I that it be in defiance of open justice . will the Lord Chancellor look into this matter and report back to the House ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise this . court order must be obey , and a person can apply to the court for they to be remove . that will need to take place in the normal course of event . on the Lucy Letby case , I simply make the point that jury ' verdict must be respect . if there be ground for an appeal , that should take place in the normal way . Taunton Deane magistrate court have 1 , 027 outstanding criminal case in the first quarter of 2023 , and the Justice Secretary ' s own constituency , as of the end of December , have 1 , 954 . these delay be let down victim , their family , witness and defendant , while undermine public confidence in the criminal justice system . how do he plan to tackle this backlog ? will he provide those work tirelessly in our court with adequate support and resource to carry out their duty ? we have increase capacity in the system . we have open 20 Nightingale court , include Cirencester Crown court in my county of Gloucestershire . we have increase the number of judge by 1 , 000 . we have put up to £ 141 million into legal aid . we have raise the retirement age . and we be ensure there be support for victim , include through independent sexual violence adviser and independent domestic violence adviser , and by introduce a rape support helpline , and so on . we be do everything we can to support victim , to increase capacity in the system and to heal the damage cause by covid . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Lord Chancellor will know that there be particular concern about the growth of the remand population in our prison , which cause great disruption . he will also know that the senior preside judge and other be take innovative measure to list remand case , but will the Lord Chancellor confirm that , to support that , there will be no financial cap on sit day in the Crown court ? as always , my hon . and learn Friend get to the heart of the matter . before the pandemic , around 9 , 000 people be in custody await trial . the figure be now close to 16 , 000 , which plainly have an impact . it be because we do not get rid of jury trial , which be the right thing to do . I be grateful to the Lord Chief Justice and the senior preside judge for consider remote hearing of bail application , to ensure that more lawyer be able to do the case . have enough practitioner , as well as sit day , be critical , and both will have my attention . last week ' s letter to the Justice Secretary from the chief inspector of prison again highlight the dreadful condition in Wandsworth Prison . will the Secretary of State take urgent step to end the overcrowding ? the hon . Lady be right to raise this hard - hit , searing report . I be interested to note that , although there be a full complement of officer , the prison simply be not deliver the regime that it should . we absolutely accept that . of course , the high remand population be an issue at Wandsworth , but Cardiff and Liverpool have achieve fantastic result . it can be turn around , so we be respond rapidly . we have already invest heavily , and £ 24 million have be spend . we have already deploy extra staff at all grade , and we will be provide support . a prison standard coaching team be offer face - to - face coach for band 3 officer , with further deployment shortly . I appreciate that an inquiry be be conduct regard the Horizon scandal , but what be the Department do to hold to account those lawyer who prosecute sub - postmaster despite the evidence be to the contrary ? anybody who appear in court , but particularly prosecutor , must be mindful of their solemn and sacred duty to disclose material to the defence that might reasonably be consider capable of undermine the case for the prosecution — that be literally the most important rule . if they fail in this case , I would expect the appropriate authority to take robust and prompt action . for the final question , I call Imran Hussain . since I last raise this question with Ministers , it have now be estimate that there be more than 10 , 000 victim of the SSB Law scandal . as my hon . friend the Member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) say , we be host an event later today to listen to those victim talk about the real impact on their life — I extend an invitation to the Minister . will he commit to my ask of real compensation and protection for the victim of what be now a national scandal ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that kind invitation . I will consider it and respond in due course . Illegal Migration Act : Northern Ireland ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Home Department if he will make a statement on the High Court judgment in Belfast of 13 May 2024 disapplye the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in Northern Ireland . let I start by express the Government ' s disappointment at this judgment . we continue to believe that our policy be lawful , that our approach be compatible with international law and , specifically , that the Illegal Migration Act proposal be compatible with article 2 of the Windsor framework . the Government will take step to defend their position , include through an appeal . we have consistently make it clear that the right commitment in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement should be interpret as they be always intend and not expand to cover issue such as illegal migration . this judgment change nothing about our operational plan to send illegal migrant to Rwanda this July or the lawfulness of our Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . we continue to work to get regular flight off to Rwanda in the come week , and nothing will distract we from that or from deliver to the timetable I have set out . we must start the flight to stop the boat . the Government have consistently apply immigration law on a UK - wide basis . it be important to remember that those who have be serve a notice for removal to Rwanda be be consider under the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 and the Safety of Rwanda Act . this judgment relate to the Illegal Migration Act and so do not impact our operation or planning for Rwanda . preparation to begin flight within week be continue at pace . as the Prime Minister make clear , " nothing will distract we " from the job of implement the Rwanda policy . we must start the flight to stop the boat . that be the fair thing to do , it be the right thing to do for our country and it be the humane thing to do . our conviction that the Rwanda scheme be lawful and necessary be unchanged . we be act in the national interest and we will not be deter . I be grateful for that response , and I thank the Minister of State in the Northern Ireland Office and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland for be present today . but we need not be here , as the issue elucidate yesterday by the High Court in Belfast be fairly and thoroughly explore in this House , and in the other place , during the passage of both the Illegal Migration Act and the Safety of Rwanda Act . when my colleague and I raise these concern here in Parliament , we be tell by the Government that we be wrong , yet the High Court in Belfast say yesterday that we be right . the only difference between the encroachment on the application of our sovereign immigration policy in Northern Ireland , as of the rest of the United Kingdom , by the Illegal Migration Act be that a case be advanced on the basis of that Act , yet a case on the Safety of Rwanda Act have not yet be consider . however , the Government will know that the rationale outline yesterday by the High Court for the Illegal Migration Act will similarly apply to the Safety of Rwanda Act as well . it need not be so . although the Government choose to dismiss the concern we outline in this House , and that our colleague outline in the other place , they have an opportunity to put this issue beyond doubt . I table an amendment to new clause 3 , along with my colleague , give the Government the opportunity to put the issue to bed , in order to maintain the integrity of this country ' s sovereign immigration policy and the integrity and protection of our border , but they choose not to do so . I be grateful that the Minister have indicate his willingness to appeal , but when they have the opportunity to put the issue beyond doubt , why do they not do that ? do they recognise that in not do so they have significantly impair the uniformity of the UK ' s immigration policy ? in 1922 , long before the EU be envisage , and long before the UK join and then depart , the island of Great Britain and Ireland have an integrity in immigration policy : the common travel area apply . what step be the Government take to get a british Isles solution to immigration , outside the control of the EU and outside , as it be , the Schengen area ? finally , what step will the Minister and his Government take to assert Parliament ' s sovereign will to protect the border of the United Kingdom ? I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for his constructive tone as he eloquently make his case . I note the narrative that he have advance . the Government be consider judgment very carefully , as you would expect , Mr Speaker , and we be take legal advice . I can reconfirm , as the Prime Minister say yesterday , that the Government intend to appeal the judgment . we have consistently make it clear that the right commitment in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement should be interpret as they be always intend , and not expand to cover reserved issue , such as illegal migration . we be equally clear that immigration be a reserved matter that have always be apply uniformly across the UK . we do not accept that the Good Friday agreement should be read so creatively as to extend to matter such as tackle illegal migration , which be a UK - wide issue and not in any way relate to the original intention of the Good Friday agreement . on the specific point about the common travel area , all immigration legislation provide a UK - wide framework for legal and illegal migration . we continue to have a constructive work relationship with the Irish Government when it come to ensure that abuse of the common travel area be robustly and appropriately tackle . on the specific point about assert Parliament ' s sovereign will around these matter , I would argue that the recent Safety of Rwanda Act clearly assert Parliament ' s sovereign will . while the late judgment relate to the IMA , we be committed to appeal it . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . this case , together with the case a few month ago about the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , have a common theme : the applicability of article 2 of the Windsor framework and the direct application of EU law . what be the Government go to do about that ? will they seek to expedite the appeal directly to the Supreme Court ? it seem to I this be a fundamental issue that need resolve . far , will they seek further clarification , either from the Joint Committee on the Northern Ireland protocol or by other mean , to clarify the situation and protect non - devolve matter from be deal with in this way ? I be always grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for his contribution . he speak with real authority , give his professional background , his role in this House , and his former position as a distinguished Secretary of State and Lord Chancellor . he will recognise that the court will make its final order in two week , when an appeal can be bring . he make a number of observation , on which Ministers will reflect when take decision , but as I have say , and as the Prime Minister have make very clear , it be our intention to appeal this judgment . we think that it be right and proper to take all step necessary to defend our position . I call the shadow Minister . the conservative chaos continue . it truly beggar belief that just week after the Prime Minister negotiate the Windsor framework in February last year , he promptly bring forward immigration legislation that appear to have leave Northern Ireland with immigration rule that be different from those for the rest of the UK . concern about the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be raise at the time by the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , as he have just point out ; why do the Government choose to ignore his warning ? I do not believe that the Minister answer the question that the right hon . Gentleman just put to he . we on the Labour Benches be utterly commit to uphold both the Good Friday agreement and the Windsor framework in all their dimension , but this Government appear to be more committed to their fail Illegal Migration Act . can the Minister assure the House that nothing that the Government do will in any way compromise the Good Friday agreement or the Windsor framework ? for those who be understandably struggle to keep up with the never - end stream of immigration legislation that have be flow from this Government , the Illegal Migration Act be the second of three Bills , all of which have one goal in mind — send asylum seeker to Rwanda — and all of which be completely fail on their own term . it have be a shamble from start to finish . meanwhile , we on the Labour Benches be clear about the problem that we face : large number of desperate asylum seeker be cross continent , exploit by criminal smuggling gang who operate route across the english channel , and be be meet by an incompetent and clueless Conservative Government who have lose control of our border and be addict to headline - chase gimmick . in contrast , the Labour party would never have go down the Rwanda rabbit hole . instead of waste taxpayer ' money on Rwanda , we would introduce a new border security command , with extra resource and new power to go after the criminal gang . instead of use expensive asylum hotel , we will deliver our backlog clearance plan , and will have a new return unit to remove people with no right to be in the UK . I once again urge the Minister to stop flog this dead horse of a Rwanda policy , and to instead adopt Labour ' s pragmatic plan to stop the Tories ' small boat chaos and fix our broken asylum system . different week , same rant . week on week , we hear the same rant about the opposition ' s position , but they have no credible plan to stop the flow of people cross the channel . I simply do not accept the shadow Minister ' s characterisation of the situation . let I be clear for he : yes , we will uphold our legal obligation — we be committed to that — but the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 do not engage the Good Friday agreement , include the right chapter . those right seek to address long - stand , specific issue relate to Northern Ireland ' s past , and do not extend to matter engage by the Act . I should also reiterate for he , because perhaps he miss this , that we be operationalise the Rwanda policy on the basis of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 . as for the Opposition Front Benchers ' very scant alternative for tackle illegal migration , which the shadow Minister today again proffer to the House , I can tell he that we have already double National Crime Agency funding for immigration and crime . we already have thousand of official work on this matter in the migration and border directorate . in practice , his policy mean a migrant amnesty , and let thousand of illegal migrant , who should not be here , stay in the UK indefinitely . he would end the Rwanda scheme — the Leader of the opposition have be very clear that he would end that , come what may — but it be already work and deter people from make crossing . the opposition would allow ten of thousand of claim to be lodge from outside the United Kingdom , undo all the progress we have make in address the asylum backlog . they would also do a deal with the European Union — one that will not stop the boat — take 100 , 000 asylum seeker every year from EU country . I do not think that be a credible offering to the country . the opposition just do not get it . they be try to take the public for fool . fortunately , we have a plan , and we be get on and deliver on it . we be deliver resource , and we will see our plan through . will my hon . Friend indicate the extent to which the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , the Windsor framework and the European Union ( Withdrawal Agreement ) Act 2020 , as it relate to the sovereignty of the whole United Kingdom , include Northern Ireland , could have be word sufficiently clearly and unambiguously to remove the ground for this judgment , in line with the disapplication principle set out in paragraph 144 of the Supreme Court judgment on Rwanda from last November , which be extremely clear ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his contribution . I refer he and all right hon . and hon . member to the position that I have set out . the Government be clear that the will of Parliament have be express on these issue . the position be as I have set out , and we will robustly defend it . we come to the SNP spokesperson . the SNP welcome the judgment from the High Court of Belfast , and thank the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission and the individual in the other case for take this matter forward . it be important that these awful piece of legislation be challenge . I note to the Minister that this judgment come from a domestic court , not the international court that the Government seem so terribly afraid of and consistently run down . the court find that the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be incompatible with article 2 of the Windsor framework and with the european convention on human right ; section 2 , 5 and 6 of the 2023 Act lead to a diminution of right . the court also find incompatibility between the 2023 Act and the Human Rights Act 1998 on the duty to remove , obligation to potential victim of modern slavery and human trafficking , and responsibility to child and their good interest — all extremely serious matter that remain of concern . as the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) say , all this be entirely predictable . the Government be warn about the implication for the Good Friday agreement throughout proceeding on the Illegal Migration Act and the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . can the Minister say why his Government fail to heed the warning and expert advice ? why do they ignore the status of Northern Ireland , and what now for the applicability of the Rwanda Act in Northern Ireland ? my fellow scottish mp and I be disturb by the fact that our constituent , neighbour and friend be not even afford the same right as those in Northern Ireland . what be the implication of that decision for the Union ? human right should be for all of we . I can probably answer that question fairly rapidly . we fully understand the position of the Scottish National party , which have be consistently express during the passage of the various piece of legislation . the SNP do not support the Government in our effort to tackle illegal migration head - on . the position be as I have describe ; I will not give a running commentary on ongoing litigation , but we be determined to appeal this judgment . we be take legal advice , and as I have say , I can be very clear that the judgment change nothing about our operational plan to send illegal migrant to Rwanda this July , or the lawfulness of our Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . concern have be express about migrant flock to Northern Ireland to avoid deportation to Rwanda , but there be absolutely no benefit whatsoever to do so . we be operationalise this policy on the basis of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 . I thank my hon . friend for come to the Chamber ; I hope he be enjoy life back at the Home Office . in the decision , the judge find that section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , as amend by the Windsor framework , must be read as mean that Northern Ireland be effectively to be treat as part of the European Union . I believe the assurance give to I at the time , but be it not patently clear now that the Windsor framework have operate in a way that undermine our sovereignty and Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom , and have fundamentally fail on its first contact with reality ? I refer my right hon . and learn Friend to what I have say about our determination to appeal the judgment . as she know from real experience , immigration be a reserved matter and policy should be apply consistently across the UK , as we have do consistently to date . the european convention on human right be not just a key part of the UK ' s unwritten constitution , but fundamental to the Good Friday agreement . that be where the commitment to the vindication of right flow from . yes , Brexit and the provision that have follow have underpin those right and have allow for the pursuance of a remedy . perhaps those who champion the Brexit project might step through the consequence of their action well in future . I be glad that our region have additional protection , but the ruling be very clear : the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be not compatible with human right , and the declaration of incompatibility have implication in all jurisdiction . be it not time that the Government develop an actual strategy that focus on safe route , target people - smuggle gang and invest in efficient processing ? be it not time we have an actual plan , instead of this £ 400 million performance of cruelty ? I profoundly disagree with the hon . Lady ' s stance on Brexit , and I respectfully disagree with her interpretation and characterisation of the situation that we be discuss . we have see over half a million people come to this country via safe and legal route since 2015 . we can all be enormously proud of that as a country , but there be a moral imperative to shut down the evil criminal gang that be responsible for take people ' s money and bring they across the channel in unseaworthy vessel , with no regard whatsoever for human life — for whether those people arrive safely . we will do everything necessary within our power to put those evil criminal gang out of business . to date , we have make progress through the plan that have be deliver , but this be the important next step in render the business model redundant . I urge the hon . Lady to rethink her position . it be not good enough to say , " it ' s all too difficult , " and just allow unlimited number of people to make those very dangerous crossing , without have an alternative country to relocate people to when there be no prospect of remove they to their country of origin . we vote in a referendum to end the rule of EU law throughout the United Kingdom , include Northern Ireland . give the muddle that the court be create , be not the only way out of this an urgent , short piece of legislation that assert beyond doubt that we control our own border ? the Government believe that we have a legal basis for this . I recognise my right hon . friend ' s determination for we to get on and deliver on the Rwanda policy . that be precisely what we be do , on the basis of the Nationality and Borders Act at this stage , but when it come to the IMA , we believe that we have a strong legal basis , and that be why we be appeal the judgment . across the United Kingdom , include Northern Ireland , there be 90 , 000 of our fellow human being who have arrive in the UK since March last year and be in limbo — their claim be not even be triaged — while they await a third country to take they . the Government know that most of these folk will turn out to be genuine refugee if their case be ever assess . they be nevertheless sit rot at the taxpayer ' s expense , vulnerable to exploitation and unable to move on . even this Government admit that the majority will never go to Rwanda , so what be the Government ' s plan for those 90 , 000 soul ? we be clearly commit to commence the Illegal Migration Act as soon as possible . the hon . Gentleman will know about the work that have go on in the Home Office over the last year or so that have dramatically improve asylum decision - make productivity — all effort that would be out of the window , be those on the Opposition Front Bench to form a government . we will take appropriate decision on individual cohort ; I will not get into that on the Floor of the House today — that ' s your job ! the hon . Gentleman keep chuntere from a sedentary position , but the fact be that we take appropriate cohort - relate decision . the message must be very clear that people should not be come to the United Kingdom via perilous journey on small boat . that be not an acceptable position to be advocate . we will not advocate that position , and will continue to take step to address it . the message should go out very clearly to anyone think of get in a small boat : don ' t do it . many in Northern Ireland will want to understand the practical implication of this court case . if , as some expect , it mean that Northern Ireland have become a more attractive place for someone who have arrive in Britain on a small boat , what be the Government do to investigate , plan for and manage that , and to ensure that it do not have cost implication for the Northern Ireland Executive or local authority in Northern Ireland ? what I can say to my right hon . friend , who , of course , take a real interest in all matter Northern Ireland , be that we be operationalise the Rwanda policy on a UK - wide basis . the legal foundation for that be the Nationality and Borders Act . as I say early , there be no benefit to anybody who think that go to Northern Ireland will lead to their not be in scope for relocation to Rwanda . that be not the case . the position be clear , and we be get on and operationalise the policy use the legal footing that be already available to we . the Government can make as many appeal , promise from the Dispatch Box , and agreement about safeguard the Union as they want , but the fact remain that because of the pathetic handover of Northern Ireland to the European Union , EU law now extend to and must be apply in Northern Ireland , as the judge make clear yesterday . the result be that we have another hole in the Government ' s immigration policy — a national immigration policy now dictate by the EU . Northern Ireland will become a back door in the United Kingdom , and that will hasten the day when we have people control , as well as good control , between Northern Ireland and GB . do the Minister recognise that unless we remove the source of the problem — namely , the commitment in the withdrawal agreement — it will continue ? there be no merit whatsoever in the suggestion that the UK would hand Northern Ireland over to the European Union . on the matter that we be debate today , the judgment change nothing about our operational plan to send illegal migrant to Rwanda this July or about the lawfulness of our Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . we continue to work to get regular flight off to Rwanda in the come week , and nothing will distract we from that or from deliver to the timetable that I set out . we must start the flight to stop the boat . I have be consistently clear that the commitment in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement should be interpret as they be always intend , and not expand to cover issue such as illegal migration . we will take all step to defend that position , include through appeal — those be the word of the Prime Minister . as I say , we be operationalise the Rwanda policy on a UK - wide basis , and we will see through the commitment that we have make . on the Windsor framework , we tell you so . on the judgment itself , legally , all road lead not to Rome but , in this case , to Strasbourg and the european convention on human right . the convention be draft for perfectly honourable reason in the aftermath of the horror of the second world war , but that be over 70 year ago . it have now clearly be overtake by event and international migration flow . have not the time now come for a Conservative Government to include in our election manifesto a clear commitment to seek to negotiate that convention with our european partner , and , should those negotiation fail , to leave it ? if we be not prepared to walk away , they will never take we seriously . I refer my right hon . friend to the Government ' s stance on the legal position in relation to the Illegal Migration Act . I would also say that for illegal migrant , all road lead to Rwanda , and for the people smuggler responsible for that evil criminality , all road lead to prison . I strongly welcome the logical and inevitable judgment from the High Court of Northern Ireland . if the Government want to have a national immigration policy , they must repeal the Illegal Migration Act , repeal the Safety of Rwanda Act , and have a human - right compliant policy . back in 1998 , the government of the UK and Ireland make the solemn pledge to the people of Northern Ireland that the right of everyone reside in the community would be protect . can the Minister give a cast - iron assurance that under no circumstance will article 2 of the Windsor framework , or the Good Friday agreement , be unpick in the pursuit of this rabbit hole of a Rwanda plan ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the position that I have set out in relation to the Good Friday agreement . I will not give a running commentary about the litigation , which be , as he will appreciate , ongoing . I absolutely and definitively disagree with he on the utility or sense in repeal the various piece of illegal migration legislation that he be so vehemently against . I respectfully disagree with he on that . that legislation be help we to make the progress that we need to put those criminal gang out of business and ultimately save life in the channel . I do not think that there be anything more serious for a Government than that . we place it front and centre in the work that we be do . it be clear to I that Northern Ireland have just as much right as anywhere else in the UK to have a deterrent to illegal migration , so aspect of this concern I . a few week ago , the Irish Government be say that they should be able to return some illegal migrant who may have go from the UK to the Republic of Ireland . do the Minister think that the Irish Government would be well off take that up with France ? if the French take the return of illegal migrant who have enter our country , we would probably not have this problem in the first place . as I say from the Dispatch Box last week , the position be very clear : we be not willing to have that relationship with the Irish Government and take the return of illegal migrant . that would need to be progress at an EU level . we think that the European Union should take back those illegal migrant . I think that go to the heart of the point that my hon . friend have make . thus far , the Minister have not take the opportunity to respond to the query from my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) about why the Government decline the offer make from the DUP Benches , which would have avoid the judgment that we have hear about . will he do so now ? he have indicate that the Government plan to appeal , but if the appeal fail , what then ? I do not think it wise to speculate on hypothetical situation . we be determined that there be a strong legislative basis , and we will defend it through the appeal . as for debate that have be and go , the hon . Gentleman will recognise that I be not the Minister at that time , but it be fair to say that the record will speak for itself on the debate that be have . we need only look at the situation in Dublin to see what happen when illegal migration become an issue and be not handle correctly , and to understand the strength of pursue our Rwanda policy . although that policy be be dismiss by some , it be interesting that , as I be sure the Minister have notice , other across Europe be start to look to it for a solution to this question . the question , " if not Rwanda , where do you want to remove people to ? " have never be answer by Labour . in the light of the judgment , can the Minister reassure I on a couple of point ? first , will the UK remain the UK border in term of migration policy , so that there be no prospect of have any form of check on people between Great Britain and Northern Ireland , which would effectively mean a border within the United Kingdom ? secondly , will the operation of the Rwanda plan be base on , as he say , the Nationality and Borders Act and on the recently pass legislation — the one - stop shop and the child age assessment — which be vital in get a grip on this issue ? be the plan be take forward on that basis rather than on the basis of the Illegal Migration Act , which be the core point from this judgment ? my hon . friend always speak with authority when it come to these issue , and he have extensive experience , have be a Minister in the Home Office . I can absolutely say that we will continue to apply migration policy on a UK - wide basis ; the UK border will remain that . he be right to highlight the Nationality and Borders Act , and he should be proud of the effort that he take forward in Government to help deliver it . Labour member consistently oppose it . in answer to his question about where Labour would send people , which I know he ask a few week ago , we be still none the wiser . the truth be that the basis upon which we be able to advance the policy at this stage be the Nationality and Borders Act . he can be confident in that basis . we be get on and deliver on it . of course , this judgment have UK - wide relevance because of the declaration of incompatibility under the Human Rights Act . in our report on the Illegal Migration Act and the Rwanda policy , the Joint Committee on Human Rights have repeatedly warn that many aspect of the Government ' s asylum policy breach the Human Rights Act . that be not just our view , but the weight of the expert evidence that we hear ; in fact , those with legal expertise who disagree with our finding be decidedly thin on the ground . this judgment vindicate our position that on a number of front , the Government ' s asylum policy breach the Human Rights Act , particularly as regard the duty to remove . as such , will the Minister confirm that the Government will respect the rule of law and not take any step to deport anyone under the Rwanda scheme until the relevant avenue of appeal in this case be exhausted and it be clarify that such removal would be lawful ? I know that the hon . and learn Lady be vehemently oppose to the Government ' s position on tackle illegal migration . I believe that the Minister for counter Illegal Migration , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) , will be in front of her Committee tomorrow , and I have no doubt that she will want to ask those question of he . to go back to the thrust of her question , though , the basis upon which we be facilitate relocation to Rwanda at this stage be that of the Nationality and Borders Act , which be not relevant to the Illegal Migration Act judgment that we be deal with today . we be already aware that the Northern Ireland protocol or Windsor framework — whichever one prefer to call it — have result in a customs border in the irish sea . if this judgment stand , it now appear to be the case that it have also destroy the ability of the United Kingdom Government to determine who should remain within our own border . do my hon . friend not agree , therefore , that the framework have be prove to be inimical to british sovereignty and should be renegotiate , or fail that — as my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( Sir John Redwood ) have suggest — should be disapplie by legislation of this Parliament ? I would not accept that characterisation . as I have confirm for the House a number of time , we be take forward the Rwanda partnership on the basis of the Nationality and Borders Act — that be the legal footing on which we be advance the policy at this stage . I be confident in that legal foundation , and we will appeal this judgment , which relate very specifically to the Illegal Migration Act . what else be the Government not tell we about where the EU have overreach into Northern Ireland , and where people in Northern Ireland be once again in limbo between two regulatory entity ? will the Secretary of State and the Government do the right thing and stop string the people of Northern Ireland along by simply appeal the decision , and will the Secretary of State commit to legislate to get rid of the EU supremacy on human right contain in article 2 of the Windsor framework ? article 2 of the Windsor framework ensure that there be no diminution of right under the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . we have be consistently clear that the commitment in the Good Friday agreement should be implement as they be always intend , not expand to cover issue such as illegal migration . rightly , we will take all step to defend that position , include through our appeal . I think we all sympathise with the Minister for have to take a line that be manifestly absurd . why be it that the Government be not go to directly legislate to deal with this situation ? the legislation be defective , and if we go to appeal and that appeal be reject , we will have lose a lot more time . why do we not act now to legislate and sort out this mess ? as I think my hon . friend will appreciate , we be currently take legal advice in relation to this judgment . it would not be right to give a running commentary on the substance of that legal advice , and as he know , as a Minister , I be not in a position to disclose that advice in any event . we will robustly defend our position , but the outcome that my hon . friend wish to see — the operationalisation of the Rwanda policy to facilitate these relocation — have its legislative basis in the Nationality and Borders Act . the good news be that he be one of the colleague who be in the Division Lobby support that Act , something that I think his constituent would welcome . the Government be repeatedly warn about the pitfall of the Windsor framework , and have be repeatedly warn and advise about the deficiency of the Rwanda legislation . what be the Minister go to do to ensure that , as a result of the Government ' s sloppy and defective drafting of legislation , the lawyer be not the only winner , as always ? we be not go to be thwart in our effort to ensure that people be relocate to Rwanda , with the ultimate aim of put out of business the evil criminal gang responsible for that heinous trade that put life at risk and exploit people for their money . there be a legal basis upon which we be take the policy forward immediately , and people be be detain for the purpose of relocation , caseworker be work on individual case , and arrangement be in place to facilitate the flight . that be where our focus and energy be at this present time , but we be also appeal on the issue of the Illegal Migration Act . my hon . friend the Minister have already confirm that the Government will appeal against the Belfast High Court judgment and that our commitment to the Belfast agreement be unwavering , so the substantive issue be the plan to process asylum seeker ' application in Rwanda , which opposition Front Benchers continue to say should not , could not and will not work . will my hon . friend confirm that not only be they wrong on all three of those point , but event in Ireland have show how effective a deterrent this policy be go to prove ? Italy , France , Denmark and — I think — the political party of the EU President have already say that it set a very interesting precedent , one that they will be look to pursue themselves . opposition Front bencher be invariably wrong when it come to these issue . my hon . friend be right to touch on the fact that although back in 2022 we be at the forefront in announce the Rwanda partnership , other be now follow we . as a Government , we recognise and have consistently say that this be a novel approach to tackle the issue , but such challenge require novel solution , and it be right that we look at novel way of tackle these migratory flow that be organise and facilitate by evil criminality — the Home Secretary be lead that effort internationally , as well . my hon . friend ' s point be become ever more relevant ; in fact , only this morning , I see additional report of other country explore these sort of arrangement . Belfast City Council have the second high number of asylum seeker in all of the United Kingdom ; that indicate how important this issue be for we in Northern Ireland . can the Minister confirm that there be still freedom of movement within the United Kingdom and that subsequently , under the policy of dispersal , we will be able to move any asylum seeker to the GB mainland to be direct , determine and deal with as this Government see fit ? can he also confirm that this court judgment will not preclude Northern Ireland from hold its constitutional and legal position within the United Kingdom until consent give through a border poll determine otherwise , which be the very foundation of the Good Friday agreement ? there be various technical aspect bind up in that question . if I may , I will take that series of point away and provide the hon . gentleman with a write response , but what I can say in top - line term be that when it come to the application of the Rwanda policy , we be deliver it on a UK - wide basis . I have sit and listen to all the question from across the House , so as I be ask the last one , can I say to the Minister that my constituent and I be very worried about immigration , and that if the Rwanda policy that this House have decide to go ahead with work , that should happen and it should be a deterrent ? however , what be obvious across the House today be that there be a concern about the Union . this country be about a union of country together , so I ask the Minister to make sure that all Government Departments understand the concern of colleague from Northern Ireland , and from across the House , to protect the Union at all cost . this government will always , always uphold the Union both in letter and in spirit . my right hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of this issue to his constituent in Hemel Hempstead and the importance of tackle illegal migration head - on . he can be absolutely assure that Home Office Ministers take our responsibility to the Union incredibly seriously . the fact that I be join on the Front Bench by Northern Ireland Office colleague for this urgent question be very welcome . it provide an opportunity to really demonstrate the fact that we do work as one government on this issue . it be incumbent on all minister to uphold the Union and its importance to our great country in every sense . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . International Health Regulations ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if she will make a statement on the ongoing negotiation on the World Health Organisation pandemic agreement and amendment to the international health regulation ahead of any vote at the World Health Assembly that start next week . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this urgent question , and I be grateful for the opportunity to update the House . I want to start by make three promise . first , the Government will only accept the accord and target amendment to the international health regulation if they be firmly in the United Kingdom ' s national interest , and no text have yet be agree . we will only accept the accord and amendment by the World Health Assembly and adopt they if it be firmly in the UK ' s national interest to do so . secondly , this Government will only sign up to measure that respect our national sovereignty . thirdly , under no circumstance will we allow the WHO to have the power to mandate lockdown . that would be unthinkable and have never be propose . protect our sovereignty be a british red line . let I now dispel three myth about the negotiation . first , there be the myth that the negotiation be be lead by the WHO . they be not be lead by the WHO ; they be entirely lead by member state . secondly , there be the idea that we would give away a fifth of our vaccine in the next pandemic . that be simply not true . of course , we be a generous country and company may make their own choice to donate vaccine , but that would be and should be entirely their decision . country be discuss a voluntary mechanism to which UK business could sign up , if they wish , to share vaccine in return for information they may need to develop their product . the third point be about transparency . this be a point I take extremely seriously , as one who campaign so hard for this Parliament ' s sovereignty . it be not common practice for the Government to give an update on live negotiation , but I meet some interested parliamentarian last week to discuss their concern . I also have the pleasure of lead a Westminster Hall debate in December on these negotiation , which be attend by my hon . friend and many other , and I will continue to meet he and other concerned parliamentarian as we act in the national interest . effective agreement can help we to deliver smart surveillance , swifter pathogen and data sharing , and fast development of pandemic vaccine , test and treatment that would save life and protect people both in the UK and around the world . can I say how much I appreciate the commitment that the Minister have just make ? I want to acknowledge the good work that he and indeed his predecessor have be do in Government ahead of the World Health Assembly that meet next week . I be very pleased to hear the commitment he have just make . my concern be not with the Government ' s position , but with the who itself . I appreciate the Minister ' s point that member state be lead on these proposal , which be worry in itself , but we know what the real agenda of the who be from the draft that have be submit in recent month . it want to have bind power over national government to introduce all sort of restrictive measure on our citizen ; it want to be able to direct the health budget of member state ; and it want to introduce global digital health passport and other measure . the WHO be an organisation that aspire , in word that be still in the draft treaty , to be " the directing and coordinate authority on international health work , include on pandemic prevention , preparedness and response " . I appreciate that no text have yet be agree , which be why it be important that we have a debate , but the proposal in the late draft publish last month be concern enough . they require national government to agree to a whole series of commitment , which will be bind under international law if the UK sign up to they . these cover surveillance of the health of the population , commitment on fund both in the UK and abroad , emergency authorisation of new vaccine or speed up authorisation process , give some vaccine to the who to distribute , potentially authorise national government to introduce the compulsory vaccination of traveller , and give very wide discretion to the director general of the who to act on his own initiative . the Government still have the opportunity to oppose the treaty and the regulation as they be currently draft , and I appreciate that we be wait to see the final text in the come day , but can I ask the Minister to clarify very explicitly from the Dispatch Box what the Government ' s red line be ? I hear what he say , but could he go a little far on the detail of what he mean ? will the Government oppose any text that bind this or a future Government in how they respond to health threat ? finally and crucially , will the Government comply with the CRaG — Constitutional Reform and Governance Act — requirement to put the treaty to a ratification vote in Parliament ? I thank my hon . friend for the constructive way in which he and other parliamentarian have engage with this subject matter and the challenge it present . as I say in my opening remark , no text have yet be agree . I set out some of our negotiate red line , and I be happy to confirm from the Dispatch Box that the current text be not acceptable to we . therefore , unless the current text be change and refine , we will not be sign up to it . my hon . Friend ask how the treaty will be ratify if we reach a position to which the UK Government could agree . the UK treaty - make process mean that the accord be of course negotiate and agree by the Government . as he will know , Parliament play an important part in scrutinise treaty under the CRaG process and determine how international obligation should be reflect domestically . however , it be important to remember that , because the exact form of the accord have not yet be agree , the parliamentary adoption process will depend on under which article of the WHO constitution the accord be adopt . I call the shadow Minister . this country have a role and a responsibility in protect global health . it be a part we play during the covid pandemic . british science stand tall on the world stage , and our country donate 84 million vaccine dose to help vaccinate the world . we learn from the omicron variant that , when it come to global pandemic , none of we be safe until all of we be safe . we also benefit from researcher around the world share early knowledge about covid - 19 , collaboration that be crucial in protect british people and ultimately in develop the vaccine . however , there be a clear principle when it come to national security . it be the same one we follow when we get on to an aeroplane : we apply our own oxygen mask before we help other apply theirs . the Minister say the draft text be not acceptable , and I want to be clear that a Labour Government will not sign anything that would leave our population unprotecte in the face of a novel disease . we be debate a treaty that be still be negotiate by member state , and none of we know the final content or wording , so can the Minister reconfirm for the House that the Government will not sign up to anything that would compromise the UK ' s ability to take domestic decision on national public health measure ? have he consult the UK ' s life science sector ahead of these negotiation , and what conversation have he have with international counterpart and our ally about this treaty and our joint pandemic preparedness ? as we work with colleague around the world to bolster our effort to tackle novel threat , it be vital that we get the balance right between share knowledge and protect intellectual property , so can he set out his approach to any requirement for time - limit waiver of intellectual property relate to vaccine and therapeutic in the event of a global disease outbreak ? finally , it be vital that we be lead by science and evidence when tackle the threat of global disease epidemic , so can the Minister tell we what his Department be do to tackle misinformation about pandemic and vaccine ? I thank the shadow Minister for his remark . I confirm that we be firmly fight in Britain ' s interest for an accord and strengthen international health regulation that fully respect national sovereignty but can save life and protect people both in the UK and around the world . they have to fully respect national sovereignty , and that be at the heart of our negotiating position . it will therefore always be up to nation state to decide what be implement within their own border . just to answer a couple of the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point , yes , I have meet representative of the life science sector to discuss this and some of the specific proposal — the last meeting we have be last week . with regard to deal with international counterpart , I will be attend the World Health Assembly in Geneva myself . my final point be that the hon . Gentleman be right to pay tribute to what this country do globally during the pandemic . of course , in 2021 we use the G7 presidency to mobilise G7 country to donate surplus vaccine , and by May 2022 the G7 have donate 1 . 18 billion dose against the target of 870 million . the UK alone donate over 80 million dose , benefit 40 country . we all want well co - ordination in the face of any future pandemic risk , but it be also clear that the WHO want supranational power . will my right hon . friend guarantee that the UK Government will not accept any obligation that require the UK to legislate to implement any element of the WHO treaty into UK law ? at the moment we do not envisage any proposal that would require change to domestic law , and it be highly unlikely that any proposal will come forward in that shape or form . I have some sympathy with what my right hon . Friend say : most organisation such as the who will always look to expand their remit , and look to gain more power in order to co - ordinate thing . but these negotiation be be lead by member state and sovereignty be a key part of the negotiating position of the vast majority of the country involve . it be not just the UK argue for this ; country around the world be argue that this need to be a high - level agreement that help co - ordination and information - sharing but in no way tie country ' hand in how we respond domestically to any future pandemic . we can not have a repeat of what the who call the catastrophic failure of the international community to ensure that covid - 19 be fight everywhere with all of our ability . it will require give and take , with give on the part of OECD country commensurate with our comparative economic strength and population health . although there may be disagreement across the House , I think we all agree that pandemic should be fight on an international basis and that other country should be assist , where we have the strength and ability to do that . despite that level of agreement , there have be a persistent barrage of misinformation and disinformation , not least hit our own inboxe . as negotiation on this proceed , what step will the UK Government be take to ensure that the public understand what the treaty will do and to tackle and robustly rebut the misinformation and disinformation that be be spread , particularly about this treaty ? the Scottish National party spokeswoman make a very important point . there have be a lot of misinformation and disinformation , but that be in part the result of the transparency on all the amendment be publish on the WHO website , for example , as well as various other information , which have allow people to think that that be suddenly the kind of text that would be agree . we need to be clear that no text whatsoever have be agree ; the negotiation continue . I think most people in this House , and hopefully outside , would recognise that the work draft text most recently publish on the WHO website be a significant improvement on the initial draft . I think we all share an ambition that we will get to a text that can be agree , but it have to put national interest and national sovereignty at its heart . I will therefore do my good to ensure that the House be keep update as further iteration of the text emerge — the late version be publish on the WHO website on 17 April . as the Health Minister who represent the UK at last year ' s World Health Assembly and the United Nations General Assembly , I stand at that Dispatch Box and confirm that we would not sign up to any IHR amendment or any other instrument that would compromise the UK ' s ability to make domestic decision on national measure concern public health . can my right hon . friend confirm that his Majesty ' s Government ' s position on this remain unchanged and resolute ? I pay tribute to my predecessor for the work he do . let I reiterate that the UK Government have make it clear that we will not sign up to any accord or any change in the international health regulation that would cede sovereignty to the WHO in make domestic decision on national measure concern public health , such as domestic immunisation programme or lockdown . can the Minister confirm that the who be slow to react to SARS — severe acute respiratory syndrome — be slow to react to the Ebola crisis , be slow to react to covid - 19 , and steadfastly refuse to criticise in any way the chinese regime throughout that period ? that be the case , will he confirm again from the Dispatch Box that no outside organisation will ever be able to take any decision to do with the internal health and wellbeing of citizen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? one of the reason why the WHO have in the past be slow to respond , and why it might be slow in future , be that it be a member state - lead organisation govern by the World Health Assembly , which comprise 194 member state operate under the WHO constitution . any decision make by the who have to be agree by all member state , include the UK , beforehand , and that do somewhat tie its hand . however , we and many like - minded country believe that all these decision be well make domestically depend on the domestic situation . the domestic situation in the UK will be radically different in any future pandemic from the domestic situation in other country around the world . we have to work collaboratively on thing like the sharing of datum , but there be many other area where it be 100 % right that decision be make in this country by our Government . I welcome confirmation from my right hon . friend that the Government do not consider the current drafting of the propose treaty to be acceptable ; it be good to have that on the record . on a principle - lead basis , I do not believe it be in the UK ' s national interest to accede to this . anything that compromise our ability to make sovereign choice be profoundly unwelcome . can the Minister give a commitment that , regardless of the technicality of the precise form that any treaty may finally emerge in , if the UK do decide to accede to this treaty , we will have a vote in this House ? we can see , certainly on this side of the House — there be no presence on the Labour Benches — that there be real reservation about what this will mean in practice for our ability to make the right choice for our people . I appreciate the point that my right hon . friend make . as I say in answer to an early question , because we do not know the exact form that the accord will take , at the moment it be very hard to say what the parliamentary procedure that flow out of it will be , but I certainly will provide any opportunity I can to facilitate as much debate as possible . he and I agree on many thing , but here I would just say that , have look at the detail , I genuinely believe that agree a meaningful accord be firmly in the UK ' s national interest . this accord be an opportunity to enhance UK health , economic and national security . an effective accord will improve disease surveillance and prevention by make sure that globally we have the information we need to raise the alarm early . it strengthen research and development to help stop pandemic in their track and enable a well co - ordinate global response to pandemic , include get vaccine , treatment and test rapidly to where they be need most . I genuinely believe that there be a window of opportunity here to get an accord that be in the UK ' s national interest . we be not there yet — the current text be unacceptable — but we will keep negotiate , because I believe there be a window of opportunity here to agree something that be genuinely in the UK ' s national interest . but if we can not agree that , we will not sign it . public health be devolve in the context of Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . therefore , how often do the Minister engage with the devolved government on the UK Government ' s negotiate position in relation to these matter ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , international treaty be a matter for the UK Government , and therefore this be be negotiate by the UK Government . I be appoint as a Minister in the Department of Health back in November , but I be happy to reassure he that I do not see myself as purely the Minister for Health in England — I visit Wales very early on to meet some of the outstanding life science company there , which be develop product that will benefit patient across the entire UK ; I visit Northern Ireland to see some of the great university and outstanding business there ; and I also visit Scotland to meet Michael Matheson , the then Scottish Health Secretary , and also the University of Edinburgh and various other outstanding university and business . so I very much see the Union , and the impact that everything have on the whole United Kingdom , as be central to these negotiation . may I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) on secure this urgent question ? I also congratulate those on the Government Benches — I note that there be no one on the Opposition Benches , apart from the shadow Minister — for address the question of whether any meaningful accord be possible . supranationality have to be out , as I have say on countless occasion , when it be not in our national interest . sovereignty have to prevail . I remind the Minister of the regulation bring in by the EU at the time of covid , which have to be abandon because we put our foot down and say that we would not accept its restriction on our ability to produce the vaccine . that be a good example . will he please follow it and make sure we do not have any weasel word ? I thank my hon . friend for his passionate and pertinent point . throughout the negotiation the UK have make it clear — and we will continue to do so — that we will not sign up to any accord that fail to meet our global health and UK health security priority . likewise , the UK would not sign up to an accord that cede sovereignty to the WHO over domestic decision on national measure concern public health , such as immunisation programme or lockdown . any necessary or appropriate change to domestic legislation or new domestic legislation would be make through the usual parliamentary process . however , because we do not yet know the exact detail of the accord , I can not be any clear on how exactly Parliament will get to scrutinise the accord , if we get to an agreement . the treaty be not just about datum sharing and information gathering ; it be also about set up a system of pandemic management under the leadership of the WHO . it have a poor history of management and decision making . can the Minister give we an assurance that he will not accept any surrendering of UK power to an international body that can interfere with decision that will affect the life of ordinary people here in the United Kingdom ? I listen to his response about devolved government , and it seem there have not be much discussion with the devolved administration . he will not even guarantee a vote in this House on such an important issue . can he guarantee that we will not undemocratically hand over democratic control to a non - democratic body ? we will not be hand over any kind of control over what we do domestically ; national sovereignty be a clear red line , as I make clear in my opening remark . it be important to recognise that there be challenge with these thing , which be be negotiate within the exist international health regulation . the director general of the World Health Organisation already have the ability to declare a public health event of international concern and issue temporary recommendation that provide non - bind guidance to member state . we believe that we need to stay in a situation where the World Health Organisation have an important convening role internationally to discuss issue , but the domestic response to any future pandemic be for domestic government to make . anything that impinge on UK national sovereignty will therefore be unacceptable to we . I want to put on the record my thank to the Minister for his hard work and for take the time last week to meet I and colleague to discuss the term of this treaty . he will know that I be profoundly sceptical about the World Health Organisation ' s ability to manage a global pandemic , in the light of serious error of judgment , poor leadership and , I be afraid , well - chronicle conflict of interest that have subsequently emerge . of course we can help poor country and collaborate with other nation , but under no circumstance must we surrender our sovereignty or sign up to a lockdown charter . I hear what he say about how the text currently on the table do not bind our hand , but he will know , as many of we do , that in the heat of an emergency during a real pandemic , irresistible pressure will mount on a Government to make decision that may well turn out to be wholly harmful , as we find , and the wrong decision for the good of the country . will he agree that , fundamentally , to coin a phrase , no pandemic treaty be well than a bad pandemic treaty ? I 100 % agree with my right hon . and learn Friend that no treaty be well than a bad treaty . however , if we scroll back to why this process be originally start , it be the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip who lead the international call for this accord . the reason behind it be that we believe that commitment on strong international collaboration and co - operation on global health be crucial to secure the UK ' s health and economic security . however , domestic decision still have to be leave to sovereign nation state to take the right decision for their country . I think there be a lot of agreement between my right hon . and learn Friend and I , and I thank she once again for engage in such constructive fashion and for meet I to express she and other parliamentarian ' view . I concur that any new treaty have to be right for the UK . will the Minister reflect on the meaning of the word " pandemic " , which suggest an element of international spread of disease or a global problem ? for the sake of balance in this urgent question , will he emphasise the importance of the UK work collaboratively on an intergovernmental basis with other in how they react to pandemic with restriction on travel and global vaccine equity ? as long as the world be safe , the UK be also safe . the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I talk about the leadership show by the UK Government when we have the G7 presidency back in 2021 . in addition to the UK supply vaccine around the world , as of 2022 , an estimate 2 . 7 million covid - 19 death have be prevent due to the covax - support vaccination programme in different country around the world . we need to work internationally . share datum can head off future pandemic , and a good accord would deliver the datum sharing and collaboration that can prevent future health emergency , rather than tie the hand of domestic government in respond appropriately to such emergency . may I say on behalf of the volunteer and other in the vaccination centre around the country during the pandemic , which I have the honour of work in , that the key be that vaccine be available to we before we give they to anyone else in the world ? I be listen to what the Minister be say , but do he agree that collaboration do not mean compulsion in any way or form ? as a volunteer vaccinator during the pandemic , I 100 % agree with my right hon . friend . we have to look after our own people — our own citizen ; the people we be elect to represent — first . we be invest heavily in the british life science sector to ensure that it be even more prepared for any future pandemic . we be ensure that we have more domestic manufacturing capability , so that we can have more vaccine ourselves without be reliant on other country . however , at the point where a new pandemic be emerge in a part of a world far from our shore , we still need to ensure that the datum — particularly the pathogen datum — be share early , so that world - beat british company , whether the tiny life science start - up or the big pharmaceutical company , can use it to produce the drug that will hopefully ensure that it do not become a full - blow pandemic and do not cost as many life as the last one . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) on his timing of this important urgent question . repeatedly during this session , the Minister have state that we do not really know what shape the pandemic agreement , accord or treaty will take . under paragraph 2 of article 55 of the international health regulation , all member state must have a full draft of the amendment to treaty to be vote on four month in advance . despite the fact that the who be break its own rule , it be insist on move forward with the vote in Geneva on 27 May on the pandemic treaty and the amendment to the international health regulation . will the Minister join I and many other in call for a deferment of those vote until this House and other around the world have have a chance to examine these important detail ? no , because there be no text that have be agree . this have be evolve : we have see new amendment and new , revised draft . the late negotiation on the accord take place on 29 April to 10 May and the next round of negotiation will take place on 16 and 17 May and continue on 20 to 25 May , lead up to the World Health Assembly meeting take place in Geneva on 27 May to 1 June . there have be a lot of progress in get a text that be more agreeable to a majority of member state , but we be still some way off get to a text that can be agree . we be hope for significant change in the come day , and I will do my good to keep the House update . may I firmly tell the Minister that the road to hell be pave with good intention ? I do not trust bureaucracy , and I certainly do not trust this one . judge by the way in which it behave last time , with its instinct to lock we all down — we have see huge damage from that to every part of our national infrastructure — I suspect that the tendency will be to do the same again , to our detriment . will the Minister reassure I — he have do so already , but I want to hear it again — that he will , in effect , not sign anything ? we do not need to sign something to collaborate with other nation for their good as well as for the good of our own country . I happily reassure my hon . friend that national sovereignty come first . we will continue to do everything that we can to ensure that we get an accord that be agreeable , but if the accord would undermine our sovereignty and our ability to act domestically in any way , we will simply not sign it . I have be contact by a large number of constituent who have voice grave concern about the power and right request and require by this unelected body . while we may support some of the work carry out to help develop country , I will not sign away the sovereignty of this nation . our participation in the who should not come with a prerequisite of sign up to these demand . far , if that be the case , we should no long be a participate member of the WHO . just to reiterate my point , the Government will only accept the accord and target amendment to the international health regulation if they be firmly in the United Kingdom ' s national interest , and no text have yet be agree . we continue the negotiation , and I will do my good to keep right hon . and hon . member as inform as I can without provide a run commentary on the negotiation , but I genuinely believe that we can get to a position where there be an accord that be in the UK national interest . will the Minister then publish the amendment that the Government be seek ? he say , rightly , that he need a very different treaty from the one that we see on offer . he need to persuade other nation , so he should be make a public case ; we would then not be so suspicious . there must be no new legal requirement impose on the United Kingdom . we do not envisage any new legal requirement be impose on the United Kingdom , and any change to our domestic ability to react to any future pandemic would be unacceptable and cross one of our red line . in this urgent question and in the Westminster Hall debate , which I know my right hon . Friend also participate in , I be as clear as I could be on the UK ' s red line in these negotiation . we have be up front with both Parliament and our international partner in say that the current text be not agreeable to we , and we be seek significant change if we be to reach an accord that will be sign by the United Kingdom . I , too , participate in that Westminster Hall debate . for the record , this urgent question have be run for well over half an hour , during which not a single labour Back Bencher have be present in the Chamber , let alone ask a question , even though we be discuss , in effect , the medical sovereignty of the United Kingdom . as there be a lot of conservative in the Chamber , may I say to the Minister that we would probably be well not sign this treaty at all ? that be not least because many of we have concern about malign influence on the WHO . if we be to sign it , although I would rather that we do not , will the Minister give we a cast - iron commitment that we will have a vote — dare I say , a meaningful vote — on it in this House before it come into force ? I thank my right hon . friend for his powerful point , which I think once again underline that you can only trust the Conservatives with the NHS . as I have say in answer to a couple of question , unfortunately , because we do not know the form that the treaty will take , it be hard to set out the parliamentary process for its adoption . there be different parliamentary process depend on the form that it take . I make the personal commitment to he that I will do everything that I can to engage the House , but at this point I can not specify the procedure and process that would be follow in the House or whether there would be a vote . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) for secure the urgent question and Mr Speaker for grant it . the World Health Organisation be a fail , mega - expensive , unelected , unaccountable supranational body , which be increasingly under the influence of the global elite , fund by a small number of non - state actor , and China be a malign influence over it . surely the initial draft of this treaty must have set alarm bell ring even in Whitehall at this attempt power grab . may I urge the Minister not to sign the treaty ? we can have enhance co - operation and collaboration to counter future pandemic without legally bind commitment . I would argue that who membership give the UK a seat at the table in global health discussion , allow we to amplify UK priority at an international level . there be 194 member state . if we can agree a high - level treaty that do not impinge on our national sovereignty via the negotiation between the 194 member state , I think that will be a good outcome , and a well outcome than try to negotiate individual agreement with all 194 member state . I say to my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) that it be hardly surprising that a debate that largely hinge on national sovereignty be of little interest to the Labour party . the principle of national democracy be incredibly important to I , many of my constituent and other people in this place . I be absolutely pro - collaboration , but that need to be do through the national principle , and nothing must be do that undermine the national principle . this debate keep on return — we think that it would end with Brexit , but it do not ; it be now go on with the european convention on human right and the WHO . will the Minister confirm that , yes , we be pro - collaboration and co - operation , but that when it come to national sovereignty we should always oppose supranationalism and the bad excess of globalism ? the UK Government have be clear that we will not sign up to an accord or any international health regulation amendment that would cede sovereignty to the WHO in make domestic decision on national measure concern public health , such as domestic immunisation programme or lockdown . respect national sovereignty right be a distinct principle in the current draft of the accord , and respect the sovereign right of state to adopt , legislate and implement legislation within their jurisdiction remain a distinct principle in the draft amendment to the IHR . I genuinely believe that there be a window of opportunity to negotiate an accord that be in the UK national interest as well as in the global interest . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure that you and member across the House will share my disappointment that the Secretary of State make a great announcement about the construction of six new warship at Lancaster House to a group of journalist , rather than in this place . all our constituent would have like mp to have have the opportunity to question the Secretary of State about that announcement . what advice do you have for I , Madam Deputy Speaker , to ensure proper scrutiny of this sort of decision , important as it be to our national security ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order and for give I notice of it . Mr Speaker and I have not have any indication that Ministers intend to come to the House to make a statement about this matter , but I note that the " Ministerial Code " say : " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of Government policy should be make in the first instance , in Parliament . " I know that Mr Speaker be keen that that should be implement . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have make a note of the point raise and will report back . bathing water ( Monitoring and reporting ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about monitoring and reporting of water quality in bathing water site in coastal area ; and for connected purpose . I be proud to represent some of the fine and clean beach in the world . North Devon be home to the UK ' s only world surf reserve , and the only cold water surf reserve in the world . I must declare an interest as I surf — badly — and be in last weekend . I be proud of this Government ' s work to take the monitoring of storm overflow from just 6 % in 2010 to 100 % last year . however , this data be abuse along our coastline and often scare people out of the water . we know that something come out of a pipe , but we have no idea what it contain . the Bill seek to expedite the testing of what be in an overflow pipe , and to define what be and what be not raw sewage . despite ask numerous question of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , I be still unable to explain to anyone how an overflow pipe that contain at least 95 % rainwater can still be define as raw sewage . legal definition online be clear that raw sewage should consist primarily of human faece and water . it be not the water where the bacteria hang out — clearly , the more water , the more diluted . my Bill relate to bathing water at coastal site , because clearly there be a major difference in the impact of an overflow event into something as environmentally sensitive and slow - move as a chalk stream , compare with the massive tide , huge volume and fast - move seawater of the Atlantic ocean . saltwater itself can kill some bacteria . we have see a surge in year - round activity along our coast , thank to improved wetsuit and a grow number of hardy folk wild swimming . however , our bathing water season , which determine when our coastal water be test , run only from May to September , mean that when water - base tourism be still go strong in Devon there be no testing along our coast . the bathing season datum give vital historical information about water quality . although I warmly welcome defra ' s announcement yesterday that it plan to consult on a series of potential reform , it will not resolve the misinformation and lack of immediate information after a storm overflow event . this winter , test take place to see if the season could be extend , but it be hard to replicate the Environment Agency ' s test regime with a test tube at the testing site just off the beach , during winter storm with 12 - foot wave . throughout the winter , bather have to try to work out what be go on from the average of the previous summer ' s datum , along with detail of the last storm overflow , despite have no information about what come out the pipe . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport advise that the Environment Agency provide the gold standard for whether bathing water be clean enough for sporting activity , despite the lack of datum for half the year . one group of year - round bather explain to I that they peer into the water and decide if they think it be safe to go in . surely , we can do well than that . base on the experience of the Environment Agency , one would think it be possible to determine when it be safe to go back into the water after an overflow event . the EA recommend wait one full tidal rotation before go back into the water after an overflow have run . however , Surfers Against Sewage advise 48 hour , because of virus and World Health Organisation datum , but clearly the issue be bacteria in a storm overflow . surfer Against Sewage do such great work when establish 40 year ago to make water company clean up their act along the coast , which have see an increase in the number of bathing water with an excellent rating . however , its current campaigning seem to be destroy the hard - win reputation of those bathing water . last winter , Devon and Cornwall be under a permanent sewage watch accord to Surfers Against Sewage , yet South West Water help event organiser along the coast to ensure that Christmas and new year swim go ahead as far as possible . we would all like no overflow to run , but it rain a lot in the south - west of England , and climate change have cause a big increase in the number of big storm and torrential rain . with the good will in the world , the water company will not stop it rain , and that rain have to go somewhere . sporadic testing on our beach show that , often , the stream run on to the beach be far more polluted than the water come out the storm overflow . we need to follow the science and recognise that in constituency such as mine , less than 1 % of the water pollution we deal with be relate to human sewage . there be work to do , but stop storm overflow be not the be - all and end - all to improve the quality of our bathing water . even surfer Against Sewage recognise that there have be improvement , although it do not like my share the email it send I last year , which state : " with regard to the beach in your constituency , we totally agree that huge improvement have be make to water quality there and in many place around the country . and the very last thing we want to do be scare people off from get in the water . " anyone can set up an app and advise whether the water quality be safe , but no one know whether the water have be test . many regular user of our bathing water recognise that when it rain , even if there be no storm overflow , the water be not as clean as when it have not . we need accurate and up - to - date datum on the water quality in its entirety , not just when an overflow have run . there be some awful example of when the system do not work . when the Ashford sewage treatment work on the Taw break down early this year , the EA advise close four beach , via the council . however , even though Surfers Against Sewage be normally the first to rush to tell people that there be raw sewage on the beach when there be not , it do not raise a flag at all because it do not use that datum . surf lesson continue because the message from council do not reach the beach , and proper untreated sewage be discharge for six hour . it be not class as a storm overflow on a bathing water beach , so nobody pay any attention . the Bill would ensure some form of test datum from coastal bathing water all year round . it would also require water company to test what be come out of their storm overflow when they run , and that the term " raw sewage " be use only when the concentration of bacteria warrant it . new definition would be determined to accurately reflect what be come out a pipe , and the seawater would be test after overflow event to accurately determine how long it take for the pollution in a storm overflow to dissipate , as this vary widely depend on tidal condition , and by beach and overflow event . over time , good datum bank would be establish and well guidance would be issue than the current blanket guidance . any organisation that fail to follow the guidance would not have access to the datum . our beachgoer deserve well datum . my own surf school say that if we listen to Surfers Against Sewage , we would never go surf . despite be in the water every day , not one of its instructor have ever be unwell . we need all - year - round datum , instant testing after incident and consistent advice in a consumer - friendly format . North Devon ' s beach be some of the clean in the world . as the one - woman tourist board for North Devon , I urge hon . member to come down and to swim , surf , sail and enjoy the beautiful coastline . as a mathematician , I know that we need well datum . reduce storm overflow be vital , and this Government be demand that of water company . however , just know that a pipe have discharge when it have be rain be not good enough . we must get well bathing water datum available all year round . question put and agree to . that Caroline Ansell , Mrs Flick Drummond , Anna Firth , Kevin Foster , Sir Liam Fox , Sir Robert Goodwill , Sally - Ann Hart , Simon Jupp , Cherilyn Mackrory , Matt Warman and Selaine Saxby present the Bill . Selaine Saxby accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June , and to be print ( Bill 217 ) . term and Conditions of Employment I beg to move , that the draft Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( Amendment of Schedule A2 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 April , be approve . the draft order will increase the deterrent effect of the code of practice on dismissal and re - engagement , which I will refer to as " the code " for the remainder of this debate . the Government have be clear that threat of dismissal and re - engagement should not be use as a negotiation tactic by employer . when the covid - 19 pandemic lead to case of dismissal and re - engagement , the Government ask ACAS to conduct an evidence - gather exercise to help we well understand this issue . the report be publish in June 2021 . the Government then ask ACAS to produce new guidance to ensure that employer be clear on their responsibility when consider make change to employment contract . the guidance be publish in November 2021 . ACAS have also publish guidance for employee . the Government then go far to address the use of dismissal and re - engagement by bring forward a draft code , aim to ensure that the practice be only ever use as a last resort , and that employee be properly consult and treat fairly . the code seek to ensure that where an employer want to make change to employee ' term and condition , the employer engage in meaningful consultation with a view to reach agreement with employee or their representative in good faith . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . we discuss this issue upstairs in Committee . can he confirm whether the motion , which put the code into practice , would stop Willie Walsh from threaten to fire and rehire 10 , 000 air steward , air stewardess and other at British Airways , or the worker at British Gas — yes or no ? it be wrong to talk about individual case , because they be all different , with different circumstance . the order be about a financial deterrent against those kind of action . different sanction be available for the mistreatment of employee , such as civil or criminal investigation by the Insolvency Service . different measure can be take forward where rule be not comply with . I be grateful to the Minister for give way again . he talk about the extra 25 % put off business and employer from go down that route . if it will save business a heck of a lot more money than the alternative , surely they will go down the same route . they will potentially price in the 25 % if it will save they more money in the long run , particularly in a British Airways situation where it be deal with legacy contract and try to save substantial amount of money . surely this be not enough of a disincentive . the hon . Gentleman raise an interesting point . Most employer treat their employee with dignity and respect . that be what we expect and what we see in the vast majority of case . an economic environment in which we have virtually full employment mean a competitive market for employee . that be the good protection against the kind of approach that some employer take and which we be try mitigate . we believe the measure strike a fair balance . we believe there be situation where dismissal and re - engagement be appropriate — I can expand on that if he would like I to — so it be about try to strike a balance , and we think we have strike that balance . I thank the Minister for give way on that point . do he appreciate that many of we think the code look very optimistic , presume a good - case scenario in human behaviour and industrial relation , and that the result be really toothless in deal with company that might operate outwith the norm ? I do not think so . there be a financial deterrent to go down a route that be not appropriate , and to not follow the code . as I say , we be strike a balance . there be situation in which , as a last resort , business need to do something more drastic ; for example , a business might be in peril and unable to survive without make the kind of change we be discuss , and such case have come before tribunal . if the question be whether it be right that everybody share a small burden — say , a reduction in salary — one person can not hold out against that , and prevent a restructuring that be in the interest of the many , rather than the few . the provision have be use in the past to save business and therefore job . that be what we be try to protect , while also protect against a rogue employer use such opportunity irresponsibly and unfairly . the code will apply to all employer , regardless of size . we expect all employer in relevant scenario to adhere to it . as I say , employment tribunal will have the power to apply an uplift of up to 25 % of an employee ' s compensation if an employer unreasonably fail to comply with a code that apply . in accordance with the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 , the Secretary of State consult ACAS on a draft statutory code before publish it . between January and April 2023 , the Government publicly consult on a draft code , enable trade union , employer and other interested party to contribute their view . careful consideration be give to those view , and as a result , change be make to the draft code . the Government be very grateful to all respondent to the consultation for their consider and helpful response . an update draft code be lay before Parliament on 19 February , and a Government response to the consultation be publish on the same day . the draft code be then debate in both Houses of Parliament . I be pleased to say that it be approve . the Government will introduce separate legislation to bring the code into force before summer recess . the Government be go even far by bring forward this order , which will increase the deterrent effect of the code by add a protective award where there be non - compliance with the collective consultation requirement in schedule A2 to the 1992 Act . the protective award be compensation award by an employment tribunal when an employer do not consult with its employee before dismiss 20 or more of they within any 90 - day period at a single establishment . schedule A2 to the 1992 Act set out the list of claim for which an employment tribunal can make a 25 % adjustment to compensation if one of the party have unreasonably fail to comply with a code of practice make use power in section 203 of the 1992 Act . the relevant code of practice that will be impact by this change be the code of practice on dismissal and re - engagement . the change will mean that where an employment tribunal be make a protective award , and it appear to it that the employer have unreasonably fail to comply with the code , the tribunal may increase that award by up to 25 % . the change be call for by respondent to the consultation , include trade union , and will increase the deterrent effect of the code . there be call to ban the practice of dismissal and re - engagement , or to restrict the practice in a manner that effectively amount to a ban . the Government believe that we must preserve company ' flexibility , so that they can manage their workforce in time of crisis . the UK ' s flexible labour market be key to economic growth and help business to thrive , so it be right that we have mechanism to enable we to save as many job as possible . the code be a proportionate response to controversial fire and rehire practice , balance protection for employee with business flexibility . the vast majority of employer want to do the right thing by their employee . for most employer , decision to change term and condition , or to let member of the workforce go , be not take lightly . the UK be a great place to start and grow a business . it have a strong labour market , and its success be underpin by the balance between labour market flexibility and worker protection . it be vital that we continue to strike the right balance , while clamp down on poor practice . the Government intend the code and the order to be in effect before the summer recess . I commend the order to the House . I call the shadow Minister . let I begin by refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be grateful to the Minister for introduce the debate , and for make the necessary amendment to primary legislation so soon after the code of practice be approve . it have take we more than two year , but today we see the first actual legislative change to tackle the blight of dismissal and re - engagement — or fire and rehire , as it be more commonly know . we will not oppose today ' s motion , but we be clear that the order do not go anywhere near far enough towards end this cruel practice , or meet the promise make by the Government . during the two year since we witness those disgraceful scene at P & o , it have continue to benefit from taxpayer ' cash through Government contract , and fire and rehire hasusb continue to toxify our industrial relation landscape . while the P & O Ferries case itself do not entirely constitute fire and rehire , it bear many of the hallmark of the practice and expose the gape hole in our law — hole that continue to be exploit ; in the wake of the pandemic , there have be a jump in the number of instance of employer choose to fire and rehire worker . accord to research conduct by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development , between August 2021 and 2023 , the proportion of firm that conduct fire and rehire almost double . what be once a seldom - use device have become a mainstream practice , and part of the wide pattern of grow insecurity at work . in short , it have become a first choice , rather than a last resort . a TUC investigation find that about 38 , 000 employer be still use fire and rehire as a tactic . however , when we be finally give the code that we be promise would tackle this dickensian practice , we find instead a vague , weak and disappointing document that would not actually prevent another case as egregious as P & o . on that basis alone , the Government have fail to keep the promise that they make more than two year ago . the element that many people find most offensive about the P & O case , which today ' s motion seek to address , be the fact that the P & O management be able to look at the sanction for which they be potentially liable and then decide whether or not they want to abide by the law . in effect , the cost of break the law be consider to be just another business overhead to be factor into decision making , and , as we see , the management decide that those sanction be not a strong enough deterrent to prevent rule - breaking . in its response to the consultation , ACAS say that a 25 % penalty " may not always present a significant deterrent when calculate against the financial cost and risk of an alternative approach . " I raise exactly those concern at the time in relation to P & o . the hon . Gentleman be make a powerful argument — and , incidentally , I congratulate the Minister on the motion — but the critical factor be the size of the business involve . a very large business can absorb all kind of cost that a small local firm can not . that have be the change , and the regulation that we put in place need to reflect that change , because otherwise those large business will behave with impunity . I will refer to other comment make by acas in response to the consultation , which I think will pick up some of the right hon . Gentleman ' s observation . we now have a clear indication that unscrupulous employer can not get away scot - free with break the law , but there be concern that a 25 % uplift will not be enough to deter bad employer who be determined to do what they feel be necessary . once P & O have calculate the maximum penalty that it could face in compensation for each employee , it price that into its decision . in effect , it be able to treat the law on consultation — a law that be there to protect worker ’ job and their dignity — as optional . today ' s motion mean that break the law will remain an option ; it just might be a slightly more expensive one now . law be only as strong as their enforcement . we believe that sanction should reflect the egregiousness of the transgression . if an employer decide to break the law , the sanction should not be cap , but instead should be decide on the basis of the fact . that would mean that any employer who be tempt to brazenly flout their legal obligation , have calculate the cost of break the law , would no long be able to do so , because the cost of the sanction could , in the most serious case , be much high than the cost of comply with the law . small transgression would be treat accordingly by a tribunal . as thing stand , the most egregious abuse have a cost ceiling , so those with ill intent can still price in the cost of act unlawfully . in its response to the consultation , ACAS say that there be " ground for consider whether additional or alternative financial disincentive might help … the government ' s policy objective " , include " great uplift of award where this be just and equitable " or " where there be especially egregious breach of the Code . " it also suggest — this be relevant to the intervention from the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) — that when decide appropriate award , court and tribunal might be require to consider , for example , whether the employer ought to have know well than to breach the code , the degree of legal advice readily available to it , and its financial resource . we agree with those suggestion . the arrogant , uncaring and deliberate trampling of worker ’ right require a strong message from this place that those action will no long be tolerate . bad employer should not be able to buy their way out of do the right thing , but instead we see the status quo preserve . thankfully , many good employer understand the importance of work collaboratively with union . we commend those employer , and we know that they already go above and beyond the legal requirement , but there be no evidence that the 25 % uplift be likely to prove a deterrent to those who do not . the Government do not know how often the compensatory uplift be use in other area of employment law where there be a similar penalty for transgress a code of practice , which prompt we to ask on what basis it have be decide that this measure will be effective in prevent employer from fail to follow the code of practice . we welcome the fact that the order extend the scope of compensation to any situation in which a protective award under section 188 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be applicable . I understand that to mean that more traditional redundancy situation will be cover , but there be limitation . there must be 20 or more employee at the same establishment for the obligation to be activate , which mean that many small employer — and , probably more pertinently , many more employer whose workforce may be spread across many different setting , retail be an obvious example — can still be exclude . the measure also only protect " employee " , which mean that some of the most insecure worker in the labour market will not benefit one jot ; and , of course , the Government intend to reintroduce employment tribunal fee , which , as we know from experience , inhibit people from enforce their right . the regulation also provide for a 25 % reduction in compensation when an employee unreasonably fail to comply with the code of practice . during last month ' s debate on the code , I ask the Minister what element of the P & O case , or indeed any recent mass redundancy exercise , have lead he to believe that such provision be necessary . I be afraid that I do not receive a satisfactory response then , so I will ask the question again . be it not the case that nothing in recent high - profile example of fire and rehire redundancy have make it necessary to give tribunal the power to take away compensation from employee ? we will not oppose the motion , because it be a step , albeit a small one , in the right direction , but let I make it absolutely clear that what be before we will not prevent another case as egregious as that of P & o . it have take we two year to reach this point — two year in which we have see grow insecurity at work , and have come no close to provide the protection that worker in this country deserve . when the Government commit themselves to respond to the outrage of P & o , there be a moment of consensus across the business world , across the political spectrum and indeed across the whole country that this disgraceful practice should be consign to the history book . epitomise that consensus , the then Business Secretary , the right hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) , say : " we will not allow this to happen again … where new law be need , we will create they … where legal loophole be cynically exploit , we will close they , and . . . where employment right be too weak , we will strengthen they . " — [ Official Report , 30 March 2022 ; Vol . 711 , c . 840 . ] those legal loophole remain as open as they do two year ago , and there be nothing , absolutely nothing , to prevent the outrage of P & O happen again . that be yet another example of the long list of wrong that will need a Labour Government to put they right . it be time to end the race to the bottom . it be time to end fire and rehire . I , too , refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . when I see the Order Paper and an item title " term and Conditions of Employment " , I think that it be good news — after the 20 time the Government have commit to an employment Bill , perhaps we would actually see it . I think that nearly seven year on from the Taylor review , of which almost 50 recommendation have not be enact or bring before the House , we would have an opportunity to create dignity , fairness and an inclusive labour market , lead to a fair and more equal nation . but what we have today be a snail step , albeit one that I will welcome , with some qualification . the reality be that for thousand of worker across these island , term and condition of employment see too many work people become victim at the mercy of boss look to cut cost , which be exactly what fire and rehire be about . it be also about zero - hour contract , bogus self - employment and short notice of shift change , leave worker with additional transport and childcare cost , but I want to concentrate on the evil practice of fire and rehire . my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) , who have have to go to a Committee , have table two private Member ' s Bills that seek to outlaw fire and rehire practice . the Bills be support by over 100 mp and the trade union Unite , the british Airline Pilots ' Association and GMB . I listen carefully to the Minister ' s exchange with my hon . friend and the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , and my scepticism about the order be approve today relate to what would happen in a tribunal case for unfair dismissal where a re - engagement order be place on an employer follow a dismissal , and the tribunal order a reinstatement . we all know that very few case in which a tribunal tell an employer to reinstate a worker who have be dismiss lead to a reinstatement , because employer will absorb the additional cost for fail to reinstate . I welcome the fact that there will be a penalty where fire and rehire have take place , but the same principle be at play here . I be afraid my scepticism relate to the fact that , as those on the Labour Front Bench have say , this order will not end the practice of fire and rehire . large employer will get their calculator out and absorb the cost , like we have see with British Airways and P & O . I see the Business and Trade Committee ' s extraordinary exchange with P & o ' s chief executive last week . I want to see real sanction , so I ask the Minister to write to we and tell we how many tribunal case where there have be an order to reinstate have actually lead to a reinstatement . I understand that the rate could be as low as 3 % , but I would be curious to know the figure , because I suspect that they could tell we what would happen with fire - and - rehire practice . I agree with my hon . friend , but will not company such as British Airways , P & O and Asda , which have indulge in this behaviour , look at this as a balance sheet exercise and conclude that the penalty be so small that they can ride it out ? do that not make the case for the Government bring forward an employment Bill to deal with the issue ? I agree that there should be an employment Bill but , exactly as my hon . friend have outline , our concern would be that large employer will get the calculator out and decide to absorb the cost . they will then , as they see it , take a small financial hit from pay a penalty than they would for fire and rehire . it be an evil practice , and I hope the Government will now consider end fire and rehire . I thank hon . member for their contribution , and will address their specific point . as we have discuss this issue before in separate venue , I fully understand that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , do not feel that this order go far enough . it be interesting to consider the briefing that come from recent discussion in the Labour party about its new plan for the workplace . there be a briefing that the party accept some situation where dismissal and re - engagement may be need . that may be a vicious rumour , but it seem to I that those on the Labour Front Bench decide their policy on the basis of whom they have talk to last — whether that be a business , employer or employee representative . we remain committed to ban fire and rehire , but if the Minister want to debate our policy properly , let we have a general election and see what the public think . why wait ? let we have the debate now . the shadow Minister mention P & o , as do many other hon . and right hon . member . clearly , that be not a situation involve fire and rehire . there be an ongoing investigation , and we believe that P & O break the law . follow that situation , we introduce the Seafarers Wages Act 2023 to ensure that any company that operate vessel in british water will pay the national living wage , which will be an effective measure . the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) describe fire and rehire as an " evil practice " , which be not the right kind of language . there be situation where sometimes employer do the wrong thing by their employee , but most employer do the right thing . there be business that have no alternative other than fire and rehire in order to save the business and save job . to describe every situation involve dismissal and re - engagement as an " evil practice " be entirely the wrong kind of language . the Minister be be typically generous in give way . surely dismiss people and re - engage they on bad term and condition , and in many case on low wage — many multinational company try to get away with that , and some do get away with it during the pandemic — be an evil practice . there be case where these opportunity be abuse — I do not deny that — but the hon . Gentleman be operate on the basis that it be the exception rather than the rule . it be our view , which he may disagree with , that the vast majority of employer do not treat their employee that way . there have be case where a court have uphold the right of an employer to fire and rehire . where the employer try to restructure the company to save job , through a salary reduction of a few per cent . for everyone in the workplace , that be well than the business go down . the hon . Gentleman must see that there be some situation in which it be the only option for an employer , which operate in the interest of the wide workforce . it be the right thing to do in those situation . his describe it as an " evil practice " be wrong and miss the point , although there be abuse of the system , as he describe . unusually , I find myself disagree with my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) . be there not scenario in which the Government think that it be perfectly fine for somebody to be sack and re - engaged ? for example , when the Government lead by the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) be collapse , Ministers resign and be then reappointe afterwards . sometimes it be in the Government ' s interest to have that option , isn ' t it ? well , there be no recourse to an employment tribunal in that situation , and there be certainly no uplift in the compensation that might be receive . I say to the shadow Minister that he should frame the order in its context . the majority of business in this country do the right thing by their employee , because they be run by honourable people and treat employee well be the right thing to do for business reason . his approach of ban dismissal and re - engagement would cost job , as would have day - one right in the area of unfair dismissal . bring forward a single category of worker would also cost job , and would create huge difficulty for many sector . it be not just about the situation that arise in individual circumstance ; it be about the fear of those situation arise for business when they be try a new employee . that situation will strike fear into the heart of many business across this country , and will cost job . the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) ask I how many people have appear before an employment tribunal and then be reinstate . I do not know those number but I would be happy to see what number we can find for he on that basis . this order will increase the deterrent effect of the code by add the protective award for non - compliance with collective consultation requirement to schedule a2 of the 1992 Act . that will mean that where an employer be find to have unreasonably fail to comply with their collective consultation requirement , as well as unreasonably fail to comply with the code , the employment tribunal may increase the employee ' s protective award by up to 25 % . subject to the approval of both Houses , the code and the order will be enforce before the summer recess . the Government be commit to make the UK the most dynamic place in the world to work and to launch , grow and do business . the UK ' s flexible labour market be key to economic growth and help business to thrive . however , labour market flexibility must be balance with appropriate safeguard . the House should be leave in no doubt that this Government will always continue to stand behind worker and stamp out unscrupulous practice where they occur . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( Amendment of Schedule A2 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 April , be approve . Employment ( Allocation of Tips ) 2 . 41 pm I beg to move , that the draft Code of Practice on Fair and Transparent distribution of Tips , which be lay before this House on 22 April , be approve . the code of practice , which I will refer to as the code , will give legal effect to standard in the allocation and distribution of tip , gratuity and service charge , and transparency surround the keeping of record and the retention of write tipping policy . for brevity , I will refer to tip , gratuity and service charge as tip for the rest of today ' s debate . passage of this code will signal a landmark moment in our protection of worker ’ right . for the first time , the Government be ensure cast - iron clarity about where tip be go once they have be pay , and set a new standard for how tip should be treat . the Minister say that , for brevity , he would consider tip , gratuity and service charge all to be tip , but surely service charge , which be a set charge against some practice or service , be quite different from tip , which be for fun or voluntary . gratuity come somewhere between the two , do they not ? could he kindly enlarge on the definition of those three thing ? it be our position that they amount to the same thing . we know from customer behaviour that when a customer see a service charge on their bill , they will usually not tip at that point because they believe that the service charge be a tip . we feel that that be in the same category , which be why we have categorise they together in this instance . the Employment ( Allocation of Tips ) Act 2023 be a relatively simple piece of legislation , but one with an important purpose . follow the justify public examination a few year ago of the spectacle of some business retain significant percentage of tip or even keep they altogether , the Government commit to back a private Member ' s Bill on tipping . the law mandate that all qualifying tip must be pass on to the worker who earn they , rather than be retain by business , and it set out that these tip must be allocate and distribute in a fair and transparent manner . I reiterate my appreciation , which I set out at this Dispatch Box early this year , for the cross - party support that the primary legislation engender , and for the positive and constructive tone in which all the parliamentary stage be conduct . I want to extend further thank in particular to the original Bill ' s sponsor , my hon . friend the Members for Watford ( Dean Russell ) and for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) , and subsequently Lord Robathan in the House of Lords . today we be another step close to bring these important measure into effect . it be remark at the time that the detail be crucial , and we elaborate on that detail in December with the publication of the draft statutory code of practice on fair and transparent distribution of tip . I be grateful for the large volume and quality of the response we receive during the public consultation that follow . everyone who provide feedback , whether via an online survey , through an email response or in a meeting with official at my Department , should know that their view have be consider carefully . response have be use to amend and enhance the code , and will continue to inform the communication and support for business implement these measure . we be pleased to lay the update code of practice before Parliament on Monday 22 April . the code be also publish on gov . uk alongside a full Government response to the consultation , which provide more detail on the feedback receive from business , worker and other stakeholder . I trust that right hon . and hon . member have have , or will have , the opportunity to study the detail of the code in their own time , but I will briefly set out its provision here today . the code of practice contain summary of the key intention of the Act . the code set out the scope of this legislation , emphasise that it cover all qualifying tip — that is , employer - receive tip and worker - receive tip over which an employer exert control or significant influence . these measure apply to every sector and across England , Scotland and Wales . the code go on to provide more detail on the need to maintain fairness in the allocation and distribution of tip . rather than be prescriptive and potentially burdensome to employer , the code articulate key principle for employer to consider , protect both the right of worker and flexibility for a variety of approach from business . the code help employer to engage in constructive and positive consultation with their worker , and help to minimise the risk of discrimination , which may be indirect or unintentional , if due care be not take . the code set out that employer need to uphold transparency in the handling of tip . this include keep a write tipping policy that be clearly communicate to all affected worker . this requirement also include retain accurate tipping record to which worker have the right to request access . one thing to note be that this need to maintain a write tipping policy and make it available to worker do not apply to business that receive tip only on an occasional and exceptional basis . finally , the code expand on how to resolve conflict that arise between employer and worker . while early and internal resolution of issue be preferable for all involve , worker may consult ACAS for impartial advice and assistance in resolve problem . the code inform worker about how an unresolved dispute may be escalate to an employment tribunal . I be listen to the Minister carefully . I be sorry that I be not as familiar with the original Act I should be , and I apologise if I ask a foolish question as a result . he mention a moment ago that the code of practice would not apply to industry in which tipping occur only rarely . will he expand on what those be ? for example , if I tip a taxi driver , would it apply to that ? obviously not . if I tip a waiter in a restaurant because he have be particularly helpful to I , why should that be share with other people in the restaurant ? to what sort of industry would the code not apply ? as I say early , that provision do not apply to an industry or organisation that receive tip on an occasional or exceptional basis . an example would be a Christmas box or a Christmas present for somebody , or an industry that be not use to get those kind of gift . my hon . friend talk about the taxi industry , which be an industry in which people regularly receive tip . he also talk about a situation where a customer give a tip directly to a worker . that tip can be keep by the worker if it be give directly to that worker and be not in the control of the employer . that be the difference : a tip give directly to somebody in a restaurant or some other place can be keep by that individual . we would expect that to be set out in a policy at employer level . I want to take this opportunity to place on the record the Government ' s gratitude to ACAS and all those involve in the tribunal system for their continue diligence on tipping and many other matter of employment law . overall , the Government be proud today to endorse the approval of this code of practice . follow approval by this House and by the House of Lords , the code and the other measure in the Act will come into force on Tuesday 1 October . with this code of practice , the Government be right a wrong , deliver a level playing field for business and continue our proud record of stand up for and defend the right of worker . I commend the statutory code of practice on fair and transparent distribution of tip to the House . I thank the Minister for his introduction . once again , I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I also join the Minister in pay tribute to the hon . member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) and for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) for their work on the private Member ' s Bill that lead to where we be today . as the Minister outline , we be finally here to debate the code of practice on fair and transparent distribution of tip , which be necessary to deliver the provision of the Employment ( Allocation of Tips ) Act 2023 . I say " finally " not just because it have take a year since Royal Assent for a code to be agree , but because it have be seven year since action be first promise on tip . as far back as 2017 , the Conservatives promise to ensure fair tip for hospitality worker . in that time , it be estimate that worker will have miss out on some £ 200 million a year in lose tip . that be over £ 1 billion take from worker in some of the economy ' s low pay job . it be a little disappointing to see that the Government have delay the Act ' s implementation from July until October 2024 . by our calculation , this further delay will cost people in the hospitality sector another £ 50 million . with that out of the way , I make it clear that we will not oppose the code . action on tip be already long overdue , and we do not want to see it delay any long . we believe that these measure will have a positive impact on the life of worker in the hospitality sector and other industry that frequently receive tip , but we also consider that there be room for improvement . I will refer to those specific issue in due course . however , I start by refer to the Government ' s consultation , which starkly set out why action be need . the proportion of respondent who report that they do not receive the tip to which they be entitle be very significant . only half of those who complete the consultation report that staff receive all the tip . of course , this mean that half the respondent to the consultation do not . extrapolate across those work in the sector , around 1 million worker will benefit from this legislation . of those report that staff do not receive all the tip , 21 % report that there be an administrative fee , another 13 % say there be other deduction , and a staggering 11 % report that no tip be pass on at all . it be jar that , in the face of such clear mistreatment of worker , there have be such a delay to get to this point . that the Government choose to delay the implementation of the Act after discover the staggering statistic in the consultation rub a little salt into the wound . some 73 % of worker who respond to the consultation report that their employer have not seek agreement on the allocation of tip , and 40 % of employer consult do not pass on tip to agency worker , in part or in total , which clearly need to be address , and it will be by this legislation . these statistic may be a reason why we face another delay , because clearly a lot of business need to get up to speed in order to be compliant , which beg the question of why more have not be do before now . will the Minister outline the Government ' s approach to work with business to ensure that they be aware of their obligation under the new law ? what step will the Department take to ensure support in the area where business raise concern in the consultation , such as transparency and record keeping on tip allocation and distribution ? I be particularly interested in how the Department plan to engage with small and medium - sized enterprise to ensure that they remain compliant with the law once it come into effect . worker will benefit only if employer be aware of and compliant with the law , so it would be welcome to hear the Government ' s plan . I draw the House ' s attention to a couple of specific element of the code . paragraph 25 , on employer consult their workforce on the policy , seem pretty minimal in set out what a good consultation look like . if an individual make an employment tribunal claim , do the Minister envisage there be any opportunity for there to be an examination of the quality of the consultation ? the very important point at paragraph 26 need further clarification . it say that employer should review their allocation policy " on a regular basis " , but there be no indication of the timescale within which this should take place . do the Minister have a view on what the timescale might be ? we be deal with a workforce who might change quite regularly . that lead I to the question of enforcement . I repeat the old adage that people ' s right be only as strong as their ability to enforce they . the sector to which the Act predominantly apply be make up of worker in insecure , low - pay job that be generally in non - unionised workplace . staff turnover be high , mean that many worker do not stay with the same employer , or even within the same industry , for long period of time . these factor will doubtless have an impact on worker ’ ability to assert the right afford under the Act . many may be entirely unaware of the stipulation of the Act . even if they be aware of the stipulation , they might not always be aware of the way in which they can enforce they . particularly if the Government persist with their plan to reintroduce employment tribunal fee , it may well not be financially viable for people to assert their right , as the fee for lodge a claim might well be more than a worker be seek to claim back . more fundamentally , a worker on a zero - hour contract or in another form of insecure work may fear that assert their right will be detrimental to their future chance of receive work . for example , if a worker on a zero - hour contract be concerned that they have be underpaid the tip to which they be entitle and request to view their tipping record , as be their right under the Act , their employer might consider this behaviour to be stir the pot and choose to reduce the hour they give that worker , or possibly even to stop give they work at all . a worker with less than two year ' service can be dismiss without cause and have no claim for unfair dismissal . the legislation do not cater for people to claim that they have be unfairly dismiss for assert their statutory right under the Act . if that be the case , it be a huge oversight give that there be protection against unfair dismissal for assert most other statutory right . will the Minister consider look at this point again , as there be a real concern that , unless people have legal protection and confidence that the law be on their side , they may be reluctant to avail themselves of their right . in term of the impact on the tribunal system , have the Government make an assessment of the propensity of those in the hospitality sector to take forward claim ? have modelling be do to judge the expect number of worker who will take forward tribunal claim ? it seem to I that the lack of proper protection will mean that the minority of bad employer will be able to continue operate with impunity , withhold the tip that their worker have rightfully earn . as a minimum , I would expect there to be some monitoring of the legislation ' s effectiveness , perhaps through survey or consultation . after all , paragraph 35 of the code state : " an employer can not be say to have meet its obligation to handle tip fairly and transparently if individual worker be not aware of their entitlement in line with the tipping policy . " if we be to have confidence that those word mean something , surely we need monitoring to ensure that the code be effective . there be a couple of other issue that I would like to raise . first , on when a worker be entitle to receive their tip for a give month , the code make reference to the provision that a tip must be pay by the end of the next month . there be a question about why tip be not pass over on the same schedule as most worker be pay . secondly , accord to paragraph 13 , tip by app be judge to be out of scope of the legislation . can the Minister confirm exactly what " tip by app " mean ? I take it to be a form of digital tipping , akin to leave cash , but we need some clarity . will he outline what work the Department have do to identify the type of tipping practice that will be in scope ? there be a concern that , although tipping by app might not be widespread now , it could be see as a way to avoid obligation under the Act in certain circumstance , to prevent staff from get the tip that be intend for they . in summary , we welcome the fact that the Government have finally get to the stage of be able to implement this policy . sadly , we will have to wait another five month for it to be implement , but the change set out today will have a positive impact on worker , who for too long have be lose money that be always intend for they . we will monitor the progress of this legislation closely and , if necessary , take further step to ensure the good intention behind this Act be deliver in full . it be a proud moment for I to stand here today , because I bring in the private Member ' s Bill behind this change and be able to get it over the line with the able effort and support of my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) . it be a joyous day , because I be absolutely passionate about two thing , fairness and Watford , and we have some fantastic hospitality location in Watford . our caf é s and restaurant include Jamaica Blue , the Flourish bakery , the Beech House , the Tudor Arms , the Sun Postal sport club , the Badger pub , Rhubarb Caf é , Random Caf é , Cassio Lounge and so many more . I would love everyone here to visit as often as possible , because they would see delight that they would get nowhere else in the world . I list all those location because in each hospitality organisation , in each caf é and restaurant , there be not only people who run the business , but many staff who work in it . I be talk about the tip Bill way back when I originally try to introduce it via a presentation Bill , which do not quite make it through . as I have a routine of never give up , I manage to obtain a private member ' s Bill — that be through luck — and then get it through , very much with thank to the Government . I especially thank the Minister who be on the Front Bench today , who be do incredible work , and his team . this measure be so important to I because I would go to meet these organisation and chat to staff , especially during the pandemic , and they be all consistent in their concern about whether they would get to keep tip . a big shift take place at that time from people give cash to somebody individually towards a world where cash be not so common . that be not necessarily a good place to be , but it be the way the world have move . far more people will now pay a tip on a credit card at the end of a meal or when they leave a caf é . every one of we will have ask the same question when we have make that payment and give our tip , which be , " will you get this ? " my Bill will help to resolve that . I congratulate my hon . friend on his superb effort in get his Bill through , as it be a wonderful thing to have do . I support the principle behind it , but I be slightly puzzle by one aspect : should the restauranteur or bar owner not be charge the correct price for the service , without any tip or service charge have to be add on ? should he not be pay his worker a fair wage for the job they be do , without any tip , service charge or other thing add ? surely my hon . friend ' s Bill will set this in stone . I say that even though I do not like tip very much , as I would much rather pay a fair price to the restauranteur and to the person who work for they . my hon . friend make an incredibly important point , which get to the heart of this : the fairness here be to not just the worker , but the business . Most business do the right thing and pay a decent salary . the Minister can correct I on this , but I believe that legislation take through a while ago mean that tip can not form part of a salary . so business should be pay a decent wage . when some organisation do the wrong thing , what they be do be anti - competitive ; they be make profit off the back of their worker by keep their tip , and the business do the right thing in give 100 % of the tip to the staff be less competitive . my approach be therefore far fair to the majority of business that do the right thing , and to the worker . it be also far fair to the customer , who think that the money be go to the staff and do not realise that a percentage of it , or in some instance all of it , be be take from they . my Bill will ensure fairness — that be the key word we should all take from the Bill and from today ' s debate . it will ensure that all tip , 100 % of they , be pay to staff . agency staff will be include in that ; when I originally talk about this Bill , some have a concern about a two - tier system for worker . the Bill will also ensure that a policy be in place — a code of practice — so that business ensure that their staff know where they stand . business will be able to be clear with everyone who work for they how the tipping practice will work ; I will not go through the full list , as the Minister do an excellent job of list it early . this measure have be a journey . I mention my work on the Bill with my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n , but , as with all journey , I begin this trek much early . in many way , this begin with the fantastic work do by my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) when he be a Secretary of State . he put in place the work enable the Government to look at how we could make sure tipping be fair , so this measure be build on the shoulder of giant . I will not list they now , but many member have be involve in make sure my Bill come to fruition . many organisation be also involve , and I thank ukhospitality , especially Kate Nicholls , who have do a fantastic job ; and the Night Time Industries Association , which have do brilliant work . conservative Members do not often talk positively about union , but the GMB have do fantastic work , and I should give another mention to ACAS . lot of business , employer and employee have also really push for this to come to fruition . I want to thank some current and former member of the Government , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who be incredibly supportive when I originally try to bring my legislation in as a presentation Bill . at the time , we be go to make it part of the Employment Bill . unfortunately , that do not happen , but many of the policy that be go to be include do happen through various other route . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) , who be a fantastic supporter and an able Minister . of course , I also thank the Minister before we today and his team . he have be excellent in make sure that this be push forward and , through he , I would like to thank his team . some of they be my team in my short time as a Minister , so I know the passion they have about make sure that we get this right . during my brief time as a Minister , I have to hand over this precious baby of mine , the tip Bill , to a colleague to make sure we could keep it move forward through the House . that be when I be able to speak to my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n , who have an incredibly important hospitality industry in her constituency . I could not think of someone more able and more energetic to make sure that we get the Bill through . through her work and our work with Lord Robathan , we make sure that it get through and receive Royal Assent . many member will not know that on the day it be give , I be fortunate enough to meet the king that morning in Parliament — I be sure that be a rare story and one for a pub quiz sometime in the future . the other person I would like to give a huge thank to be the lady who rarely get a mention in here but who be behind so many of these incredibly important Bills : my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) . she do an incredible job in give we guidance on how to navigate the complex system of get a Bill through Parliament and in give we confidence that it be possible . she have make sure that many Bills have get through and go on this incredibly important journey , include many other in which I have have involvement in different way , such as those on flexible working , maternity care , leave and so on . my Bill will help about 2 million hospitality worker across the UK . that be an incredible number . when I have speak about this to people around the House or to my constituent , I have find that so many more people will talk about its importance : customer who want to make sure that money for which they have work hard and which they be give as a thank you get to the people they be give it to ; and colleague who have family member who work as waiter or waitress , or who work in bar , as this will make sure that they get the money that have be gift to they . many colleague have speak to I about their experience of work in hospitality while at university or when they be young . that have show I how the hospitality sector play an important role in our society : it provide a type of apprenticeship to many of we before our career . we learn a lot about our culture , society and community , as well as about people , through hospitality . that be why I have be so passionate about save our night - time economy , include music venue , in Watford and across the UK . music venue have be at the heart of our society and I fear they may be damage in the future , but I hope the Bill may play a small part in help they . the Bill be also about fairness . it be impossible to legislate for fairness in society — it be a gut feel — but fairness be at the heart of what it be to be british . we believe in fairness in all part of our society . at its heart , the legislation go back to the fact that when someone give money as a gift to someone else , they expect they to get it . that be what this Bill will ensure , and I be grateful to the Government for that . I want to raise a couple of related point with the Minister to ensure they be cover as the legislation move forward . we need to ensure there be a communication strategy before October so that worker know their right , how to access they and what be cover . business also need to know that the legislation will not be a burden . during the early stage of the Bill , I be mindful that it must not be a burden and more red tape for business . the majority of business get that and understand it . those that be do the wrong thing will , no doubt , kick up a fuss . over the come week and month , we will probably hear about business try to get around the regulation by form new practice . I hope the Government will clamp down on those , and name and shame the business involve ; I will certainly be happy to do that to ensure that fairness be the heart of the regulation . the Government have a role to play in support the hospitality sector as a whole as well they can . business in the sector be important part of our community ; they be in the heart of every village , town and city . hospitality be often the reason people visit an area , it be often the first port of call for a job and a career , and it play an important role in entertainment and culture . no other industry have such an important and broad role , so I want to ensure it be fair . I thank the Government , the Minister and colleague across the House who have be incredibly supportive , especially my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n . finally , may I say a huge thank you to my constituent in Watford ? if they have not put I here , the Bill may not have be make progress today . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . it be genuinely a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) . I thank he and congratulate he on the private Member ' s Bill that lead to this code of practice come to the Floor of the House . it be a small but significant step forward in improve worker ’ right . regardless of our political difference — I suspect there be many — I have always find the hon . Gentleman to be kind , thoughtful and dedicated to public service , and I be very grateful for that . it be therefore no surprise that have win the equivalent of the parliamentary lottery , he choose to bring forward legislation that command such cross - party support , and I thank he for that . I will make reference to the briefing issue by Unite the union later in my remark , but at the outset I declare my own membership of Unite , although I should be clear that I have no particular financial interest to declare . one of the most frustrating aspect of the 2019 to 2024 Parliament have be the lack of significant progress on improve employment law more generally . yes , there have be piecemeal bit of legislation , such as the Bills bring forward by the hon . member for Watford , my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) and the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , but they have all come forward as limited Back - Bench Bills . it be undeniable that a vacuum be create for these private member ' bill to move forward due to the sheer absence of the substantial Government employment Bill that many of we expect . indeed , we be promise such a Bill on no less than 20 occasion by Ministers . it be now seven year since the Taylor review and still no action have be forthcoming from the recommendation of that report . I be sure the hon . Gentleman would like to correct the record . a number of recommendation in the Taylor review have be implement , not least the right to request predictable term and condition , which go far than the recommendation in the review . will the hon . Gentleman acknowledge that fact ? I be absolutely willing to acknowledge that some recommendation from the Taylor review have be progress , but no significant action have be forthcoming . a lot of mp have say that ; indeed , even the hon . member for Watford say it be regrettable that there be not an employment Bill . I be simply point out the fact that an employment Bill be promise in this Parliament . we find time to legislate on a whole manner of other issue , some of which have , frankly , be with a view to create a wedge at the general election , whereas we know that the legislation framework we have around employment law be not necessarily fit for the 21st century and the kind of economy we now have . the UK exit the European Union in January 2020 to the cheer and trumpet of Brexiteers who promise that Britannia unchain from Brussels would lead to an improvement in worker ’ right . in reality , and from what I can see in Glasgow , all that have happen be that employer in the hospitality and tourism sector now just have few worker . in cite the briefing from Unite , I want to thank it for the work it have do to engage with employee and to gauge their opinion about tip policy . for context , those who have respond be already engage trade unionist with a track record of activism and a decent understanding of policy . that be what make the answer particularly striking . when ask whether an employee ' s workplace pass on all tip to its staff the answer be : yes , 63 % ; don ' t know , 21 % ; no , 11 % ; and some 5 % indicate that tip be only accept by card on an employer - operate tronc that employee pay tax on . those statistic paint a picture of the sheer scale of the issue worker face , especially when it come to tipping in hospitality . on tipping policy , some other issue need to be iron out and consider far , namely whether backroom staff , such as those who be integral to prepare and produce a meal , not just deliver it to the table , be tip , and whether the tip be be distribute equitably . all worker need to be eligible to receive tip , whether they be on a zero - hour contract or be permanent . progress have be make on extend tip to agency worker , but in reality we now operate in a gig economy . it be vital that the legislative framework that come from this place reflect that . from the Government ' s response to the consultation , 40 % of employer admit that they do not issue tip to agency worker despite that be an obligation under section 27h of the Employment Rights Act 1996 . the hon . member for Watford be spot on when he say that the comms to employer and employee must be very clear in the run - up to October this year . there must be something that can be do , for example , with employee who still receive a payslip . could the Government bring forward measure to require all employer to put some sort of small note on payslip to make clear that the law on tipping will change in a couple of month ? the legislation we be pilot through the House today make the point that our legislative framework do not reflect the reality of the UK economy and labour force in 2024 . More need to be do to protect worker , especially those on zero - hour contract . arguably , that point should weigh heavily on the mind of shadow Ministers who , if poll be to be believe , might shortly be assume red box and whitehall office in the come month . as we approach the cigarette end of this Parliament , attention turn to the incoming Government and their ambition for worker ’ right . it would be fair to say that the small c conservative approach to worker ' right from the official Opposition have not necessarily be wholly welcome by those in the Labour movement . only last week , Unite ' s general secretary , Sharon Graham , be on record as say : " it look like all the warning Unite make early about the danger of Labour row back on its pledge for the New Deal for Workers have be prove right . this new Labour document on the New Deal , issue to the union on Monday , be a row back on a row back . it be totally unrecognisable from the original proposal produce with the union . unrecognisable . worker will see through this and mark this retreat after retreat as a betrayal . this new document be turn what be a real new deal for worker into a charter for bad boss . Labour don ' t want a law against fire and rehire and they be effectively rip up the promise of legislation on a new deal for worker in its first 100 day . " order . I assume the hon . Gentleman will be come back to the motion before we . I be very happy to inform you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I be talk on employment legislation , which I believe be germane to this debate . unite ' s general secretary go on to say : " instead , we have code of conduct and pledge of consultation with big business . likewise , the proposal to legislate against zero hour contract be water down to almost nothing … in truth this new document be not worthy of discussion . all union must now demand that labour change course and put the original New Deal for Workers back on the table . " that be a warning shot to the Labour party that it , too , must be more ambitious and not leave the task of protect worker ' right to the valiant effort of Back - Bench mp who happen to be lucky in the private Members ' Bill draw . I be sure that you will be glad to know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I will draw my remark to a close , and say , yes , the measure before we today have the potential to put up to £ 200 million a year back into the pocket of hospitality staff and could benefit more than 2 million worker across the hospitality , leisure and service sector . that be a legislative achievement to be rightly celebrate in this place but it come against a backdrop of increase legislation that restrict the right of trade union to exercise function of collective bargaining . it be no surprise , therefore , that the UK now have some of the most restrictive trade union law in western Europe — something that have worsen over the past decade . worker deserve well , and today be another baby step to improve thing , but it largely go against the grain of Westminster policy formulation when it come to worker ’ right . and it be frankly little wonder that the Labour movement in Scotland , so ably represent by the Scottish Trades Union Congress , have now conclude that legislative competence for employment law should be devolve to Scottish Ministers . failure to do so — be that by Labour or the Tories — will lead scot to conclude one thing and one thing only : that Westminster be not work for work people . I be delighted to be speak on the day that this code of practice be approve by this House . when I take over the sponsorship of the Employment ( Allocation of Tips ) Bill , a private Member ' s Bill due to his promotion of my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) — a champion for Watford — I know just how important it would be to the pocket of million of people across the UK , particularly in my constituency . the Bill be about fairness and transparency . it be about reduce discrimination and it be about create a level playing field for business . importantly , the code will enable dispute to be resolve quickly and fairly . some 8 % of people in the UK work in the tourism sector . that rise to 11 % in Wales and a whopping 18 % on Ynys M ô n — that be right , almost one in five be employ in the tourism and hospitality sector in my constituency of Ynys M ô n . if , as be estimate , worker in the sector will receive an average £ 200 per year more in their pocket , then a rough calculation suggest that this measure alone could generate around £ 900 , 000 for worker across Ynys M ô n annually . as someone who finance my a - level and university study by waitress , I know at first hand how important tip be . Madam Deputy Speaker , this Bill be not a new nuclear power station or a freeport , but it be significant to local worker and family struggle with the cost of living . I have to say that those work in hospitality and tourism on Anglesey be a fantastic bunch and be dedicate to support our local community in so many way . the team in the Oystercatcher in Rhosneigr be work with community champion Sue Gillett to help raise fund for Mirili M ô n as part of Dementia Week this Thursday . at Catch 22 in Valley , Neil , Mel and the team support local farmer through their farmer market . the Driftwood in Trearddur Bay host fabulous quiz to raise fund for local community group such as the Scouts , the SSAFA , and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution . and Dave and Amanda Jones from Anglesey Fishing Trips do so much to reach out to tourist and to our local community . there be so many fantastic people and community that will benefit from this measure , particularly those on Ynys M ô n , and I be proud to see that , with the approval of this code of practice , this legislation be move another step close . I thank hon . member for their contribution to this debate in which we be seek to ensure that the draft code of practice on fair and transparent distribution of tip be approve . I will turn now to the specific issue raise . the shadow Minister talk about engage with the sector , which be very important . I can tell he that we engage regularly with organisation such as UK Hospitality , the british Beer and Pub Association and the British Institute of Innkeeping on these matter and have be do so for many month , as we want to make sure that their view be hear . the non - statutory guidance that we will be bring forward should provide more help for those organisation to comply with the important provision of this legislation . the shadow Minister ask whether we would review the policy on a regular basis . we will obviously keep all these matter under review , and the guidance should help to inform the sector about requirement in term of both employee and business . it be hugely important that we do so . he ask whether a person could take a claim forward to an employment tribunal for unfair dismissal . clearly , employment tribunal be there to ensure that worker can assert their right if they feel that their right have not be respect , so we would definitely expect an employment tribunal to hear such a case . the shadow Minister ask about tipping by digital app . we see this as a new phenomenon and an interesting development , enable the customer to be able to tip an individual use an app , QR code or whatever , and we will not stand in the way of that . where a tip have be give directly to a member of staff , it be clear that that tip should be keep by the member of staff . the app be there to allow flexibility in the implementation of the code or the guidance , rather than allow business to avoid their clear obligation . the shadow Minister ask about payment and why they be pay the follow month . I think it be reasonable to allow a business to be able to calculate the amount of tip that be receive in a month and then pay those out to worker in the month follow . we think that that be a reasonable balance to strike . he ask why we be take another five month to put this legislation in place . clearly , we want to ensure two thing — that we get this right and that we respect some of the pressure that exist in the hospitality sector , which have be through a difficult time , with increase in the national living wage , the cost of live crisis and the covid pandemic . we be try to make sure that we take the sector with we , rather than impose unfair new burden on it . we do not think that these measure be unfair , because we know that the majority of business would adopt these kind of rule even without this legislation . the hon . member for Glasgow East ( David Linden ) seem to imply that we on the Conservative Benches be go to use Brexit to improve worker ’ right . I be always keen to improve worker ’ right , and we have do so in this Parliament , but I remember his party clearly say that Brexit would be a bonfire of worker ’ right and that certainly have not be the case . do the Minister consider that worker ’ right have improve ? if he do , why be it that trade union organisation across Europe recognise that the UK have some of the bad employment right across Europe ? yes , those right have get well . we have introduce legislation that cover the right to request flexible working , neonatal care leave , carer ' leave , protection to cover redundancy during pregnancy and return to work , the right to request predictable term and condition , the tipping Bill , and share parental leave . all those thing have be introduce , or support , by this Government . we see those protection not as an opportunity to create a wedge issue , but as the right thing to do by our worker . be the Minister seriously try to tell the House that the former Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) , do not relish the opportunity to bring forward the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 , see it as a wedge issue that would cause trouble with the Labour party ? come on ! that be a refrain that we constantly hear from the SNP . to be fair to the hon . Gentleman , he do refer to ensure that we work alongside hospitality on the guidance , but apart from that , there be nothing in his remark about the need of business , and the legislation be about the need of business . the strike that affect this country , particularly at the end of last year and in the year before last , cost the hospitality sector around £ 3 billion . that be why we legislate as we do , and we feel it be the right thing to do . the hon . Gentleman would do well to reflect far on the need of business as well as the need of worker . we believe that there be a balance to be strike , and he have get that balance wrong in Scotland . hon . member need not listen to I ; just look at the number . the most recent figure for economic growth in Scotland over the 10 year from 2011 to 2021 show Scotland ' s cumulative GDP growth at 7 . 2 % , England ' s at 14 . 9 % and the whole of the UK ' s at 12 . 9 % . SNP MPs would do well to go back to their nation and constituency and drive economic progress forward . my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) , who have do such good work in this area , talk about fairness . I know he stand up for fairness , and for Watford ; I have see the amazing montage of all the time that he have mention Watford in this Chamber . he deserve plaudit for his work . he say that he be lucky , but as the great Gary Player say , the hard you work , the lucky you get . the success that my hon . friend have be an instigator of today be due to his hard work and determination . he talk about what we have do on communication , work with employer group , employee group and the hospitality sector . yes , we do that — we work with trade union , ACAS , ukhospitality , the british Beer and Pub Association , the British Institute of Innkeeping and other to ensure that the code of practice and the guidance that will follow will leave they fully cognisant of the requirement on the sector — a sector that be so important to our economy . my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) say he do not like give tip . he be free not to give a tip if he do not feel it be appropriate , but most people would say that for good service , they would be prepare to provide a tip . the key point of this legislation be that that tip should be retain by the individual who provide the service . may I correct the impression my hon . friend have give of what I say ? I do not say that I do not like give tip . I like give tip — I be quite a generous tipper , I think . however , I wish I do not have to . I wish people be pay enough to make tip unnecessary . that be the point I be make . my hon . friend make a very good point . of course , we have increase the national minimum wage by record amount this year to try to make sure that people get pay enough . it do surprise I to think that he would not be a generous tipper , because he have be generous in all my interaction with he . finally , my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) talk about her constituent and the benefit that the code will bring — £ 900 , 000 in her constituency , I think she say . she do a great job for her constituent . I must say that my daughter be both pretty pleased with the code as well , as they both work in local establishment . when the code and other provision on tipping come into force in October , we will right a wrong and ensure that tip money go where it should : to the worker who provide the service . we will continue to monitor the operation of the code and the major industry that it cover , and we will not hesitate to amend it — with parliamentary approval , of course — if necessary . I can also confirm that additional , non - statutory guidance will be publish before the code come into force , to provide further background and help employer to remain compliant with the requirement . I commend the motion to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Code of Practice on Fair and Transparent distribution of Tips , which be lay before this House on 22 April , be approve . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the question necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of the Prime Minister relate to War Graves Week not later than 7 . 00pm or not later than three hour after their commencement , whichever be the later ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( deferred division ) and provision of Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) relate to motion that this House have consider a specified matter shall not apply . — ( Mr Gagan Mohindra . ) War Graves Week I beg to move , that this House have consider War Graves Week . the Commonwealth War Graves Commission do extraordinary work keep alive the memory of the 1 . 7 million man and woman who give their life in the service of our country and the Commonwealth in both world war . it tend to and maintain grave , memorial and site at 23 , 000 location in 153 country around the world , from single grave to the large cemetery at Tyne Cot , near Passchendaele , where almost 12 , 000 of the fall from the first world war be bury and remember . among the 300 , 000 - plus total casualty of Passchendaele be 20 - year - old James Leaning , a private with the Hertfordshire Regiment . he be tragically kill on the first day of the battle , and be bury at the Menin Gate memorial in Ypres , which be lovingly maintain by the commission . beyond concern itself with the neat - cut grass , the flower bed , and the mind - blow number — row upon row — of pristine headstone , and of name on memorial wall , the Commonwealth War Grave Commission do even more extraordinary and priceless work to remind every generation about the service and sacrifice of those who die to forge our freedom , and about the gargantuan human cost of war . we celebrate the commission ' s work during Commonwealth War Grave Week , but I know that member on both side of the House will join I in express our appreciation for what it do to keep the flame of remembrance burn 365 day a year . it be a great honour to have the Commonwealth War Graves Commission headquarter in my constituency . give what my right hon . friend have just say , I be sure that he will join I in thank not only the staff base in Maidenhead , but those around the world who manage and maintain war grave — often in very difficult circumstance , in country where other conflict be take place — so that the family of those who have fall know that the sacrifice of their love one be appropriately recognise . I very warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s contribution , and I join she in thank her constituent at head office in Maidenhead for all the work that they do — often , as she rightly say , in incredibly difficult and sometimes conflict - live location around the world . I be sure that member will join I in thank my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) and the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for their work as serve commissioner . I take my role as chair of the commissioner , and the Ministry of Defence ' s long run relationship with the commission , extremely seriously . the Government provide nearly 80 % of the commission ' s budget — around £ 55 million each year — and the other member Governments of Australia , Canada , India , New Zealand and South Africa together provide the remain 20 % , in direct correlation to the number of each nationality commemorate . an important part of the commission ' s work be to continue the search to identify all those who give their life but have yet to be commemorate , and to tell the story behind the name carve on headstone and memorial . on the point about update grave , over the Easter recess , I meet people from the spitfire aa810 project , which aim to improve our understanding of the work undertake by pilot in the photographic reconnaissance unit . one of the project ' s major task be learn who be part of the unit , as there be no complete listing of those who serve in Royal Air Force photo reconnaissance during world war two . it have identify around 420 british casualty among those who serve , as well as pilot from across the Commonwealth . do the Minister agree that we should ensure that war grave and other memorial — perhaps one to those spitfire pilot — be update and expand as we find out more ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . a feature of the fog of war , but also of record - keeping at the time and in the many year that have pass since , be that it be sometimes difficult to piece thing back together . we in this House all appreciate the effort of the commission and the importance of ensure that we recognise every single name whenever new information come to light . the commission be play a central role in the Government ' s D - day 80 commemoration , include by bring the generation together through its Legacy of Liberation torch relay . that torch be pass on by the Prime Minister early today at Horse Guards . I be there , and be delighted to host that relay , which will end with young people pass the flame to veteran at the commission ' s Bayeux cemetery on D - day . the commission ' s war cemetery site include one in Gaza , an active war location . this point have be discuss before , and I be pleased to be able to share with the House some news that have emerge , despite the very dire humanitarian situation on the ground . I be recently ask to help with the safe passage of Commonwealth War Graves Commission staff out of Gaza , and I be hearten to confirm that just last week , five of the commission ' s six staff who want to leave make it safely to Egypt , along with their immediate family , where they will join the commission ' s in - country staff until it be safe for they to return . like any large organisation in inflationary time , the commission face and have face significant budgetary challenge , as well as cost associate with its age site , many of which be not build with any kind of longevity in mind . it have also have to adapt its site to the impact of change weather and climate . in recent year , the Ministry of Defence have work closely with the commission to develop a new strategy to help tackle those challenge sufficiently , which include work to make sure that the commission remain both relevant and affordable in the year ahead . as a consequence of that work , the commission put forward a bid to its member government for a temporary uplift in funding over three year . I be pleased to tell the House that I approve that bid early this year , in order to ensure that the commission can overcome the challenge it face and continue to preserve its site , which be such a tangible and important touchstone for our nation ' s history , and such an important part of the story of our national life . I be pleased to be able to provide an uplift of £ 2 . 6 million a year over the next three year , and I be also pleased to report that the sum be match in the normal proportion by our partner government . without the extraordinary work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , memory of all the sacrifice make — all the work , effort , blood and toil , without which the freedom that we have today would not exist — might start to fade . this morning , I meet a 99 - year - old gentleman who fight in the second world war . although he be still quite sharp , his frailty remind I of how easily those memory could slip from the public ' s consciousness . story of the service and sacrifice of many from all part of the United Kingdom and all over the Commonwealth will later simply not be able to be tell first hand in the way that he tell I this morning about his experience during the war . vital lesson about the fragility of freedom and democracy and the need to cherish and nurture they , to stand up for they , and for ally to sometimes come together and fight and die for they , might also fade . history have so much to teach we , but only if we can access it . story of service and sacrifice — such as that of 20 - year - old James Leaning , the private from my home county of Hertfordshire , whom I describe at the beginning of my comment — have so many lesson for future generation , but only if we preserve and cherish they , and pass they on . that be why we must always support the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and the extraordinary work that it do . it be a privilege to speak in this debate , particularly as we approach the 80th anniversary of D - day in June and the Commonwealth War Graves Commission ' s Legacy of Liberation campaign . I look forward to contribution from member on all side of the House in this debate . during War Graves Week , as always , we remember those who make the ultimate sacrifice to protect other and the freedom that we enjoy today . it be our duty to tell their story and to honour their service . I begin by echo and join the Defence Secretary in pay tribute to the work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and its staff not only in the UK , but around the world . our war grave and memorial must be properly protect , care for and respect . for over a century , the commission have do so much at home and abroad to honour the man and woman of the UK and the Commonwealth who lose their life in the two world war . thank to the commission ' s work , site of remembrance for 1 . 7 million individual be properly care for . it be the custodian of our share global history as well as of our local history . I would like to pay tribute to the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for their work as commissioner , represent Parliament on the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . I think their work remind we of the genuine cross - party support that the commission enjoy and will continue to enjoy . in my home city of Plymouth , our shared history be tell by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission at a number of cemetery , include Weston Mill , Efford , Ford Park and the Plymouth naval memorial on Plymouth Hoe . that naval memorial , where I know a number of member from both side have attend service , remember all those lose at sea . this year , we remember the 70th anniversary of the unveiling by Princess Margaret of the extension for those we lose in world war two . I pay tribute to the staff of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission who keep that memorial , and all memorial at home and abroad , in such a proud and decent condition . each name on the war memorial be a person with a family , hope and dream , who make the ultimate sacrifice for our nation . one particular cemetery that stick in my mind be not run by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . it be a war grave in Wantage garden on North Road West in Plymouth , which have the headstone of child sailor to tell their story . it be call the No Place memorial , and it be a memorial for Plymouth ' s fall hero . it be a small graveyard , and many of those it remember be 15 , 16 or 17 when they die . one of they , Edward Pike , be just 15 when he die on 16 November 1894 on HMS Lion . through that memorial , we keep the flame of their memory alive , and what strike I most about that memorial be their rank . all the rank of those who die be on the memorial , and Edward ' s rank be " boy " . tell his story and tell the story of all the other people alongside he in that cemetery be a way of not only remember that sacrifice , but keep that flame alive , as well as the reason that he and other go to sea . as someone who represent a naval city , I have the privilege of attend the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire for the unveiling of the submariner memorial in 2022 . almost 6 , 000 submariner have lose their life in the 120 year since the submarine service be form , and as the son of a submariner , this be particularly close to my heart . I thank the staff of the National Memorial Arboretum for all they do . they welcome 300 , 000 visitor a year to their 400 memorial , include over 20 , 000 young people . just as we on both side encourage member to join the armed force parliamentary scheme , may I encourage they to go to the National Memorial Arboretum ? it be a profoundly move place to remember people who have give the ultimate sacrifice . I be glad the hon . member be so proud of the National Arboretum Memorial at Alrewas . he may not know — the House may not know — that Mr Speaker be currently consider the possibility of have a parliamentary memorial there . I have be on the committee consider it , and we be very nearly at the stage of recommend one particular stone to the Speaker . I hope that member will very soon be able to go to the National Arboretum Memorial and see a memorial to parliamentarian who give their life . I thank the hon . member for that intervention , and I think that tell our story , and tell the story of all those who serve and give their life for the freedom we enjoy , be time well spend . for anyone who have not be to the National Memorial Arboretum , it be a visit worth pay to hear the story and to see the way in which different unit from different part of our armed force remember those who fall in different way . it really be a very special place . it be vital that we support the effort of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission to reach out to community , particularly to engage with young generation to pass on our history as the world war recede far into the past . we commend the commission for make education and outreach a key priority in its late — very good — strategy . I be remind of the fantastic interactive event organise for young people in Plymouth for the 80th anniversary of the Blitz , as well as tour and talk across the country during this War Graves Week . I also encourage member to share the library of free learning resource on the commission website , include guide on how to research relative and other Commonwealth casualty . look forward to the future , I welcome the commission ' s strategy towards 2039 , not least for the serious thought that have be give to how to engage young people with new technology in a digital age . as we mark War Graves Week , we must recognise and honour fully the regiment and the troop draw from across the Commonwealth , from Africa , Asia and the Caribbean , and remember the great contribution and sacrifice from so many of they that help forge modern Britain and the freedom we enjoy today . as the Commonwealth War Graves Commission find in its 2021 report on the historical inequality in commemoration , an estimate 45 , 000 to 54 , 000 casualty , predominantly indian , east and west African , egyptian and somali personnel , be or be commemorate unequally . I want to praise the work of our shadow Foreign Secretary my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) who speak out about this in his documentary " the Unremembered " in 2019 to make the case that everyone who serve in our military , regardless of background and where they come from , should be remember for the sacrifice they make . finally , I make one further point . the Commonwealth War Graves Commission do superb work and remember people whose grave be on land but its remit do not extend to those who die at sea . as Devonport ' s MP and come from a naval family , I want to place it on record that those who die at sea and have no rest place other than the ocean should also be remember in War Graves Week . in 2018 I raise concern about the second world war wreck in the east Java sea , in particular HMS Exeter , a Devonport - base world war two heavy cruiser that have be loot and scavenge . as a war grave , HMS Exeter — and indeed HMS Prince of Wales , HMS Electra , HMS Encounter , and australian and dutch ship that go down in the battle with the japanese navy there — should be a final place of rest , but those ship have be scavenge and in the case of HMS Exeter almost completely removed from the seabed . the hon . Gentleman make an extremely important point about these ship that go down just off Indonesia ; some 4 , 800 people die on board and they be not commemorate at the site of their death at all — they be the only service people who be not . the same incidentally apply to those who die in Dogger Bank , where mineral be now be lift out , greatly risk interfere with the people who terribly sadly die there . there be an argument for the Commonwealth War Graves Commission to at least consider look again at war grave at sea . I be grateful for that intervention and the way in which the hon . Gentleman remember those who die in the Dogger Bank . in 2008 HMS Kent place a memorial next to where HMS Exeter go down . there be way of remember those who die at sea as well as protect wreck . we could look at how our ally , the United States of America , Australia and the Netherlands for example , do thing slightly differently . but we should be make the case that the story of all should be tell regardless of whether they die on land or at sea and that there be a place for that . we be see that in the debate around war grave ; it be a really important aspect of this that we remember these people , and the war memorial I speak about on Plymouth Hoe remember those who die at sea as well as on land . it be important we remember all of they . on that point , the House be aware of my interest in marine archaeology . I have ask Ministers this question repeatedly , and I think they be correct in say that the Protection of Military Remains Act 1986 and the Protection of Wrecks Act 1973 afford protection to those lose at sea . I be grateful for that intervention . I be not certain that this be the precise moment when I should be go into the fine detail of wreck protection and the debate around that , but certainly in War Graves Week we need to be tell the story of all who serve and all who die , and that be an important part of what the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and other group be do . it be worth place on record our recognition of that work in this debate . today and always we remember those who make the ultimate sacrifice to protect other . service in our armed force be the ultimate public service . the Commonwealth War Graves Commission help strengthen the bond between those who serve and the country they serve to protect . labour be fully commit to build on this if give the opportunity of be in government later this year . it be a great honour to take part in this debate . I be pleased to follow the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , and I welcome his support for the work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and the remark that he make . I also thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State — the chairman of the commission — and congratulate he on wear the newly design corporate tie . I particularly thank he , the Leader of the House and the Chief Whip for provide Government time for this debate on such an important topic . I be also deeply honour to be one of the two serve parliamentary commissioner of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , and I look forward to the comment from my other commissioner , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , shortly . have parliamentary representation on the commission mark a tradition go back to the origin of the commission , more than 100 year ago . our debate come in the midst of War Graves Week but be also a timely reflection of the event in June to commemorate the liberation of Europe with the 80th anniversary of the D - day landing . many of our constituent and many in this House will have have forebear , include parent , who serve during world war two . last autumn , I visit Salerno in Italy , where Commonwealth and american force land to form a beachhead on the european mainland in late 1943 . More than 1 , 800 serviceman be commemorate there . it be a particularly poignant trip for I , since my grandfather win his military cross there with the Commandos , and my father - in - law write an account of the landing for the liberation of Italy . revert to the Normandy landing , my wife ' s cousin lead the Special Service Brigade , which take the Pegasus Bridge , accompany by his brigade piper . more locally , one of my predecessor as MP for Ludlow , Lieutenant - Colonel Uvedale Corbett , win the distinguished service order for his action during the Normandy landing and breakout . all of we will have connection to those who serve during the second world war , so the work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission should be important to we all . the commission care for some 23 , 000 war memorial and cemetery across 153 country and territory around the globe , help we all to honour and commemorate the 1 . 7 million Commonwealth servicemen and woman who lose their life through war . few experience be more moving or evocative than visit any of our battlefield cemetery and see the rank of the iconic headstone that mark the grave of the fallen , so magnificently maintain by the dedicated commission staff . in reality , the work of the commission span much more than even that . along with the wide range of the commission ' s historic preservation of world - class monument and million of headstone , it also have world - class expertise in horticulture and the research and record management that go into sustain our database of million of casualty . another of its most moving and impressive role be in the continue recovery , forensic identification and respectful reburial of the remain of the fall , where possible with military honour . that still go on , month in , month out . during War Graves Week , we can all take time — I urge colleague across the House to do so — to visit site in each of our constituency . yesterday I visit llandingat cemetery at the church in Llandovery , where there be several Commonwealth grave . I work with Ryan Jones , who be a volunteer with the commission . will the right hon . Gentleman pay tribute to the volunteer for their work in place such as Carmarthenshire look after these grave ? I be delighted to , and the hon . Gentleman pre - empt one of the comment I will make . he be absolutely right , and the volunteering element to preserve the quality of the headstone be a relatively recent phenomenon . I be sure we will touch on that in a few moment . there be plenty of scope to add more volunteer . indeed , many member might want to consider volunteer to maintain gravestone in their own constituency . in south Shropshire , more than 200 casualty from world war one and world war two be bury at 74 location across the Ludlow constituency , with more than 30 commemorate at Bridgnorth cemetery , the large site in the constituency . like the hon . member , I pay my respect at one of those site last Saturday , in the deconsecrated churchyard of St Leonards in Ludlow , where volunteer help keep the war grave in as reasonable order as possible in a churchyard that be no long active . War Graves Week , inaugurate only in 2021 , stand as a good opportunity to highlight all the work that the Commonwealth War Graves Commission do around the world , none of which would be possible without both our generous member nation funder and , of course , our amazing staff and volunteer . with my wide interest in the environment , I would like to touch briefly on the commission ' s work from a sustainability and horticultural perspective . there can be few organisation in the world with a responsibility for sustain the environment with such a diverse global footprint , manage site in all climate , at various elevation , and with one of the wide range of flora and fauna . horticulturalist work for the commission care for many native plant specie in our site across the world . while that mean that the commission be a curator with exceptional knowledge about those plant , we be also very much challenge by global climate change . the commission have commit to achieve net zero by 2050 and be utilise new approach to horticulture and memorial maintenance to reflect the change climate while reduce the use of pesticide and herbicide as well as fossil fuel . I place on record my thank as a member of the commission ' s audit committee to my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary . as he mention in his opening speech , as chairman of the Commission he show real leadership early this year in secure a three - year funding settlement from donor nation , lead by the Ministry of Defence . we be extremely grateful to he for that , not least because that provide certainty of funding to continue the commission ' s fine work through the inevitable uncertainty of a general election and a potential spending review . of course , the Commonwealth War Graves Commission ' s work be not immune from the impact of war today . sadly , many of the place in which the commission look after war memorial and cemetery suffer from the instability and repercussion of conflict . our site in Gaza have be no exception . I join the Defence Secretary in pay tribute to the work of many people both here in the UK and in our high commission in the region in help to ensure the safe evacuation of our staff and their family . unfortunately , our restoration work on site will have to wait while access remain impossible due to the war . we face similar challenge in secure safe access to our cemetery in some other place , currently include Iraq , Iran , Yemen and Sudan , but our commitment to those site be undiminishe . I know that we will return to carry out our important work as soon as condition allow . in three week , we will be mark the 80th anniversary of the D - day landing . this be an important opportunity to remember the contribution of UK and Commonwealth soldier in the liberation of Europe from the Nazis and to encourage the next generation to take up responsibility for remembrance . since this may well be the last significant milestone commemoration of the D - day landing attend by veteran of the campaign , it be a particularly poignant commemoration . it also highlight just how important it be that young generation take up the mantle of remembrance . the commission have therefore place a great emphasis on involve schoolchildren in the major programme of event in both the UK and France on 5 and 6 June involve veteran , serve personnel and child . Normandy , where the commission maintain 116 cemetery and memorial that mark the grave of 25 , 000 fall service personnel , will of course be the centre point of the commemoration . the commission , recognise the need to maintain our relevance to future generation , have spend much of the last year look far ahead at develop its strategy towards 2039 , as both open speech refer to . that set a clear path to the 100th anniversary of world war two , increase our collaboration with parallel organisation in other country both to foster reconciliation between former adversary and to inform young generation about the human cost of war . that be all the more poignant and relevant give that the first state - on - state war at scale since 1945 be go on in Europe right now . as we move beyond lifetime memory of the world war , the environment in which the commission do its work be change . young generation be not as directly or personally connect as old generation to world war one and world war two . clearly , that represent a challenge , but it be also the true test of our commitment to honour the fallen — one that I hope future generation will meet , just as previous generation have . I thank all member here today for their support for War Graves Week and for the important work that the Commonwealth War Graves Commission undertake around the world . the serried rank of gravestone , so well maintain by the commission , leave a clear impression on all who see they of the sacrifice of the fall around the world . they serve as a reminder to we all of the immense human cost of war , and that the legacy of those who give their life depend on face down the resurgent threat to global stability that we face today . it be always a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) . the Scottish National party proudly support the valuable work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission in its effort to ensure that those who die in service as a result of conflict be commemorate . it be vital that we preserve the memory of the member of our armed service and those of Commonwealth country who answer the call to serve in numerous conflict across the globe , and who pay the ultimate sacrifice . like other member , I pay tribute to the fantastic work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , which maintain , manage and preserve war grave in more than 23 , 000 location in 150 country , and more than 1 . 1 million headstone across the world . the War Graves Commission offer a wonderfully unique service to enable people to identify family member who have be kill in conflict , and to locate their last resting place , memorial or headstone . I have benefit from that by be able to identify my great uncle , Corporal William Dorans , who in 1914 be an Army reservist and be call to the colour on the outbreak of war , and serve in the 1st Battalion , Royal Scots Fusiliers . it be one of the first british battalion to be deploy in Belgium to stop the german advance into that country . it be immediately post to the frontline , on the Ypres salient , and take part in the first battle of Ypres against the german army , involve both offensive and defensive action , include bombardment and brutal hand - to - hand fighting , which result in thousand of casualty on both side . on 13 November 1914 , Corporal Dorans be sadly officially report miss in action and believe dead . his body be never recover from the quagmire that be the battlefield . he be commemorate with honour at the Ypres Menin Gate memorial , along with more than 54 , 580 other serviceman from the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth country kill in that area who have no know grave . I visit Menin Gate a few year ago to pay my respect to my great uncle and all other member of the armed force who give their life for their country . I be move by the tribute that take place under the Menin Gate arch at 8 o ' clock every night , by the bugler of the Last Post Association , who sound the " last Post " as a unique homage to all those who lose their life . that tradition have take place continuously since 1928 , on more than 33 , 000 occasion . I also take the opportunity to visit Tyne Cot cemetery , which have almost 12 , 000 grave of british and Commonwealth soldier and a number of small grave site , which be immaculately maintain and present by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . the enormity of the scale and number of those kill can only be appreciate by a visit to these graveyard . it be a very emotional experience . close to home , I commend and bring to the attention of the House the work of the Girvan and District Great War Project . it be establish in 2013 by a couple , Lorna and Ritchie Conaghan , both unpaid volunteer , initially to research and identify local man who leave the area to go to war and never return . through their tremendous effort research , identify and record at least 450 local man , wherever possible they have produce individual service record for each of the man , which be available to their family as a tribute to their service and sacrifice . they include a number who have not previously be commemorate on local war memorial , include the local man who have lose their life in the armed force while serve in the army of Commonwealth country , include Australia and Canada . it be absolutely fabulous , and it have also initiate numerous other local project , include the erection of memorial bench , exhibition of wartime uniform and weapon , and a memorial wildflower garden . it involve local child in various project , include the production of brightly paint poppy stone place on the grave of those who die in war to enable easy identification by people walk through the cemetery — what a fabulous idea . in addition , it work to keep alive the memory of non - Commonwealth personnel and those kill during time of war with a connection to Girvan . I will give just one example , although there be several . on 4 November 1917 , a french merchant ship , the SS Longwy , be torpedo 20 mile off the coast of Girvan , in my constituency , with the loss of 31 life . three of the body wash up ashore along the coastline near Girvan and be then bury in the town ' s Doune cemetery . the other 28 french sailor remain in their underwater tomb without commemoration , other than the three simple crosse mark the grave of the man who be wash ashore . there be , as yet , no memorial to the remainder of the crew , either in France or here in Scotland . I be pleased to say that follow significant fundraising activity both in Scotland and in France , £ 12 , 000 have be raise to erect a permanent memorial overlook the sea in memory of all 31 sailor who be kill . work start on the creation of a memorial this week , which will be complete by October this year . one group of people who die during the world war and be often overlook be those who serve in the merchant navy . in August last year , I be privileged to attend a ceremony in Girvan to unveil a new memorial to commemorate merchant seaman bear locally who die at sea while serve their country . new memorial such as this also commemorate all those who die at sea with no know grave and remind we of the vital contribution of the merchant navy in time of conflict . the good way we can preserve the legacy of war grave , keep the memorial relevant and meaningful for future generation , and commemorate the sacrifice make by so many , be without doubt through education . just a month ago , Claire Horton CBE , director general of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , say : " we be at an undeniable turning point for the legacy of commemoration . this year ' s landmark anniversary may be the final major commemoration attend by veteran of D - Day , and as such represent a unique opportunity to pass on the torch of commemoration from the generation who fight in the two World Wars and ensure commemoration of their legacy endure for generation to come . as we look to the future , well education must play a vital role in ensure that the lesson of the first and Second World War be remember , and that the importance of commemoration be understand by everyone , whether they have a direct and personal connection to the World Wars or not . our mission be for the legacy of those who die fighting for our freedom to inspire a world free from conflict . " I could not agree more . education be the key , and the importance of every generation know the cost of war in life lose be central . finally , to raise awareness and help with the preservation of memory in out - of - the - way part of town and village , and to put they fully into the public arena where all , especially our child , can see and feel they , we might every year project name on to the wall of public building to great effect , as happen on the wall of the Scottish Parliament in May 2020 . that could be do relatively easily and replicate across the country , similar to the poppy display on the Elizabeth Tower during Remembrance Day last year . the Commonwealth War Graves Commission be a wonderful organisation fully deserving of continue financial support from the Government and the support of the public through donation to enable it to keep alive the memory of the sacrifice of the million of man and woman who lay down their life for their country . we must also continue the commemoration of Remembrance Sunday , and wear our poppy with pride in November every year to remember those who have go before we and do not return home . the good and most effective way of ensure that these memory be not lose be to educate , which need to be do in a manner that be accessible and relevant to child so that they can recognise the sacrifice make by so many to enable we to enjoy the precious freedom that we have today . let I end by quote two line of a poem with which all member will be familiar : " at the going down of the sun and in the morning we will remember they . " I be grateful for the opportunity not only to hear the erudite word of my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , but to thank he and the other member of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission for all their work . I look forward to hear from the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) very shortly . it be also a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) , who speak so movingly about his great - uncle , Corporal Dorans . I be glad that he mention the daily commemoration at the Menin Gate . it barely let up until the second world war and resume as soon as the opportunity be available , and it be wonderful that it continue to this day . as the hon . Gentleman say — and , indeed , as be say by the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — this be an issue on which the whole House will stand united , and it be sober to think that previous generation stand here unite in grief . we be surround by the commemoration of Members who fall in the war , and elsewhere in this place be commemorate the son and daughter of member — include the son of the then Prime Minister , Herbert Asquith , and the then leader of the Labour party , Arthur Henderson , who be kill on the same day in the battle of Loos in 1915 . the scale of the loss in this country and across what be then the empire require a response like no other . it be the hard of all task . how could anyone rise to the challenge of fittingly remember so many , with different faith and different tradition , and from so many corner of the earth ? the extraordinary legacy of those — include Lutyens , Kenyon , Ware , Baker and Kipling — who apply themselves to that vital work , most of they carry their own personal grief , live on . no commemoration could ever be equal to that conflict or those that follow , but it do its good , on behalf of this nation , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , India and the whole Commonwealth , to remember the sacrifice of all and the sacrifice of every individual , embrace the principle of equality of commemoration . it be vital for we to embrace that principle , novel in its day , at every opportunity in remember everyone who fall in common cause . in do so , we must recognise as inexcusable — as do the former Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) — those occasion when in the past we fall short of that absolute principle . the engraving that be ultimately not adopt but be initially intend to be inscribe around the Stone of Remembrance be take from Ecclesiastes : " their body be bury in peace ; but their name liveth for evermore . " for the fact that where know grave exist , the body of those brave man and woman do lie in peace and their name , whether commemorate on a memorial or on a gravestone , will be remember for evermore , we owe an enormous debt to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . as be suggest by my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , if we in this House could possibly thank every one of its 1 , 300 employee in each of the 200 language that they speak between they , we would feel honoured to do so . for the work that they do to fulfil our sacred obligation — not least , as my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow mention , their work in continue to uncover remain and bury they with due honour — they have our gratitude and respect . during my research for this speech , I find it sober to try to find the number of grave and , of course , to be remind that that number grow year upon year . every one of we , I be sure , will have stand before the Comme memorial with its 72 , 000 name , visit Tyne Cot with its 12 , 000 grave , and , sometimes even more poignantly , visit the quiet and small cemetery scatter across Flanders field . what make they so poignant be the sheer scale of collective loss , with each individual headstone or name commemorate a person who love and be love . they be remember by their love one in the brief but most profound of epitaph . how fitting it be that over 100 year since the war to end all war , schoolchildren from our constituency make annual pilgrimage to recognise and remember . it be move indeed to see young people — barely young than those who fall , and show the same exuberance and love of life that those who die would once have claim — fall silent as they recognise the enormity of just one cemetery , which be only one of the 23 , 000 cemetery and memorial look after by the CWGC . of course , the commission ' s direct duty , or duty work for the MOD , stretch far beyond the western front . I have be immensely move by the beautifully keep calmness of the cemetery in Singapore , the rise heat of dawn in the commission ' s cemetery in New Delhi as we collectively commemorate Anzac Day , and the knowledge that in the blustery South Atlantic , the Falkland Islanders will , with love , protect and commemorate those bury above San Carlos Water , who give everything for their liberation . nor do the responsibility of the CWGC end with cemetery . there be many individual grave in british churchyard where the fall be remember close to home . the same be true of the solitary grave of Ronald Maxwell of the Hong Kong Volunteer Defence Corps , who be bury where he fall on 23 December 1941 , age 22 , beside St John ' s Cathedral in Hong Kong . I be pleased to hear the word of the Secretary of State about his personal commitment to the three - year uplift in funding . the commission need that assurance to ensure that remembrance be a live legacy for our nation , and I welcome it . we be approach the 80th anniversary of D - day — a date of specific significance for the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , which refer to it as the Legacy of Liberation 80 . the commission be right to say that the 80th anniversary commemoration may mark a tipping point between first - hand memory and national memory , and that the role of education will be ever more important in the year to come . I would therefore like my last word in this debate to be not my own , but those of Robert Piper , late of the Royal Sussex Regiment and the Royal Signals . he be a 99 - year - old Normandy veteran who join up at the age of 15 , and I be proud to have he as a constituent . he retain an excellent sense of humour . when advise by his doctor that he have bad news and that Robert have cancer , his response be to say , " I go to Normandy . what do you mean , bad news ? every day be a bonus . " Robert once say in our excellent local magazine , all about Horsham : " I have return to Europe and stand in the middle of cemetery fill with hundred of soldier , and I ask myself the question — why they , not we ? " that be a question to which these cemetery should always give rise , because it remind we of our obligation to remember , to be thankful , and to try to be worthy of the sacrifice make . I pay tribute to the Chair of the Defence Committee , the right hon . member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , for the speech that he have just make . I agree with every word he say , and I think he put it incredibly eloquently . I thank the Government for find time for this debate , and I thank the Defence Secretary , who be obviously a very busy man , for open the debate this afternoon . I have the enormous privilege of represent Parliament on the commission , along with the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , whom I commend he for his excellent speech . I note that early we have in the Chamber one of the previous representative on the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , although he be not in his place at the moment . I know that he be incredibly well respected and still play an important role on the Commonwealth War Graves Foundation , which be the charitable arm of the commission . I be very keen to talk about the outstanding work that the commission do and the dedicated people around the world who work , on our behalf , on commemoration every day . as we know , this debate be all the more timely as we approach the 80th anniversary of the D - day landing , and with the commission ' s Legacy of Liberation 80 campaign . we have already hear that the commission be establish by royal charter in 1917 . it be a global organisation care for war grave and memorial at 23 , 000 location in 153 country and territory , include some of the most war - tear area of the world — Gaza at the moment , unfortunately , as well as Libya , Somalia and many other place . the Defence Secretary be the chair of the commission , and among the other commissioner be the high commissioner from Canada , Australia , India , New Zealand and South Africa . they all help to oversee and , importantly , fund the organisation , and I think everyone be grateful for the funding settlement agree in recent month by all the member government . I would also like to pay tribute to our current vice - chair , Peter Hudson , to the director general , Claire Horton , and to the president of the commission , her Royal Highness the Princess Royal . the commission commemorate almost 1 . 7 million individual , ensure that Commonwealth man and woman who die during the two world war be commemorate in a manner befit all that they give to secure our freedom and our very survival . of course , this history be personal to all of we who have family serve in these campaign . I think back to my dad , Eric Johnson , who serve in world war two in the Royal Navy on HMS Begum ; my father - in - law , Victor Morton , who serve on HMS Ramillies as it shell enemy position at 5 . 30 be on D - day to help make the landing possible ; my mother , Ruth Johnson , who work in a munition factory in Cheshire ; and my mother - in - law , Joyce Morton , who serve in the WAAF at Bentley Priory in Stanmore — or , as it be well know at that time , Fighter Command . thankfully , they all survive the second world war , but so many do not , and that be why it be so important for their family that we commemorate all those who lose their life . I represent a hull constituency in East Yorkshire , an area that historically have make a great contribution to our armed force , as I be remind every time I walk along those rank of Portland stone grave and see so many from the Yorkshire regiment . of course , Hull ' s civilian population be also on the frontline in the total war of world war two . commemoration be important to I , to my constituent and , of course , to the nation . when I visit the Runnymede Air Forces Memorial , I be really move to see the name of Hull ' s own Amy Johnson . First Officer Amy Johnson be , as we all know , the first woman pilot to fly alone from Britain to Australia . she go missing in 1941 when fly on a mission over the Thames estuary for the Air Transport Auxiliary . her body be never find , but her name be on that memorial at Runnymede . I have be to many of the site around the UK and Europe over the year , but I want to say a few word about a visit that I pay just last week while on a trip to Singapore with the Home Affairs Committee . in the heat of the afternoon , along with other mp on the delegation I visit the Kranji war cemetery , where the commission ' s regional manager , Dennis Shim , and his team do exemplary work . we lay a wreath and remember the fallen . I want to pay tribute to Dennis and his team because during covid there be very strict regulation about access to the cemetery and it be unfortunately in quite a state when the gardener be allow back in to do their work . I have to say that it look absolutely wonderful last week . it be a real tribute to the hard work of the gardener and the commission . we know that 4 , 461 Commonwealth casualty of the second world war be bury at Kranji , plus some from world war one , and the Singapore memorial at the site bear the name of 24 , 000 commonwealth casualty who have no know grave . this of course include a number of the prisoner of war involve in the construction of the notorious Burma - Thailand railway , know as the death railway . while our attention will be on Normandy this June , those who be involve in the far east campaign should of course be in our thought too . Kranji be just one example of the work of the commission , which have a global estate run by a multinational and multilingual workforce of about 1 , 300 , the vast majority of whom be gardener and stonemason . they be incredibly skilled man and woman . the gardener I meet in Kranji last week come from India and Bangladesh . since the commission ' s establishment , we have construct 2 , 500 war cemetery and plot , erect headstone over grave and , where the remain be miss , inscribe the name of the dead on permanent memorial . More than 1 million burial be now commemorate at military and civil site around the world , from Canada , Belgium and France to Ukraine , Georgia and Papua New Guinea . the workforce look after these site with dedication , and it be therefore only fitting that we look after the workforce with similar care . I be very relieved to hear of the safe evacuation to Egypt of the team work in Gaza , for which I again thank the Defence Secretary . of course , many other commission site face danger from current conflict around the world , and we need to have the commission ' s staff in our mind and prayer . the commission ' s work have develop in recent year , as we focus on amend record , search for miss name , build new memorial and address historical inequality and injustice in commemoration . like my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , I pay tribute to the work of my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) and Professor Mich è le Barrett , who bring the commission ' s attention to some of the way in which we have not commemorate as we should have do . a key principle , as the Chair of the Defence Committee say , be that all who fall must be remember equally . when we ask the public about the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , they will of course talk about the cemetery in northern France , Belgium or Italy , but we have an important job to do of commemorate those who fight but have not yet be properly acknowledge . as part of our non - commemoration work , we have , for example , recently begin construction of a memorial in Cape Town to honour some 1 , 700 black South Africans who fall while serve in Africa in world war one , and who have until now not be commemorate . other part of our non - commemoration work focus on west Africa , Kenya , Egypt and India . we also have a duty to ensure that our site remain well visited , so that remembrance of the war dead continue , by create information centre , volunteer opportunity and education programme design to engage and educate generation to come . I see today that the Prime Minister hand the torch of liberation to veteran Peter Kent . the torch will now travel around the United Kingdom before travel on to Normandy in time for the D - day event in France . the commission ' s Legacy of Liberation campaign present a momentous opportunity to commemorate the 80th anniversary of pivotal world war two event , with a special emphasis on D - day and the momentous event that lay the foundation for a free Europe . the commission aim to create a renew emphasis on the act of commemoration and the important work of bridge the past and present , ensure that the story of those who fall be pass on to young generation . the public can also access interactive tour online of the commission ' s key cemetery , feature story from those in the battle , detail of commission event and much more . this debate take place in War Graves Week , an annual event in May to draw attention to the commission ' s work . the commission be organise 277 event and tour in over 160 location across 15 country worldwide , and I hope that member will get involve in those in their constituency . just like the work of the Royal British Legion and help for Heroes , the commission ' s work continue all year round , every year . that be why I encourage member across the House , and of course the new Members sit on these Benches within the next six month , to take an interest in the upkeep and the incredible history of the war grave in their constituency . they will find so many valuable lesson for the future , and much to be proud of . in late June and early July 1943 , the ally in north Africa be prepare to invade Sicily , which would be the first piece of territory in Europe to be take back from Nazi Germany . in 2nd Battalion the Cheshire Regiment , in the 50th Infantry Division , there be two good friend : Lieutenant David Cox , an Oxbridge graduate age 23 ; and Peter Martin , then a captain command a company . one morning , David tell Peter that he have a terrible and very vivid dream in which he learn that he be go to die in a place call Catania . he have never hear of it and neither have Peter . Peter reassure David that it be just a dream , and he should think no more about it . shortly thereafter , the Cheshires receive their order for Operation Husky , the invasion of Sicily . to his absolute horror , David learn that an objective of the 50th Infantry Division be a place call Catania — the very same name that he have dream about . it shock he to the core , and of course he become seriously worried that he be go to die there . in early July , the Cheshires land at Jig Green beach , just south of Syracuse , in Sicily . the landing go well and not too much resistance be encounter . David be , of course , petrify by the premonition , and Peter repeatedly try to reassure he that it be just a dream . about a week later , the Cheshires take part in take Catania , and after some hard fighting , in which both officer play considerable part , the town be capture . with the town take by the ally , Peter say to David that his worry have be unjustified and he should stop fret . naturally , David be massively relieved . the next day , 16 August , the battalion be task with move through a minefield . David be the only officer with mine - clear experience , and he lead the effort to make a path through it . tragically , a mine explode as he be do so and he be kill — how flip awful ! that story come from my mentor , whom I meet in 1969 , when I , too , join the Cheshires . by then , Peter be a major general and colonel of the regiment . I hold he in huge regard , and he guide I as a very young officer . Peter never forget David , and visit his grave in Sicily whenever he could . the word of the Reverend Geoffrey Studdert Kennedy , Woodbine Willie , who win the Military Cross in the first world war , hold true : " there be many kind of sorrow in this world of Love and Hate , but there be no sterner sorrow than a soldier ' s for his mate . " I have use those word myself . David ' s story inspire I to do the same and visit his grave , and I have be there several time in the last few year . I have a photograph with I , but I be not allow to show it . [ interruption . ] okay , I will show it , Mr Deputy Speaker — here it be . David ' s grave be in the Catania Commonwealth war cemetery , which contain 2 , 135 burial from the second world war , 112 of they unidentified . it be in a beautiful location — I will let right hon . and hon . member glance at the photo — with Mount Etna behind it , steam away , an active volcano . it be a fabulous location . the cemetery , like most cwgc location abroad , make anyone that visit it feel humble and fill with awe . nothing can bring back the man bury there , but at least their memory be honour properly . that might be of some solace to the family and friend of those who rest there . however , I be slightly concerned about one aspect of the work of the cwgc : what appear to happen sometimes in our country . for instance , in south - east London , Hither Green cemetery contain over 200 war grave . the grave that be locate together — more than 10 — be look after , but there be many more individual grave , such as that of private Terence Adam , who be kill at ballykelly in Northern Ireland on 6 December 1982 . I be the incident commander when 11 soldier , as well as six civilian , be murder by the Irish National Liberation Army . Terence ' s grave be on its own , but it be look after by my friend and former Army colleague George Szwejkowski , who also personally care for over 50 other grave in that cemetery . he be one of many more civilian volunteer to do that , as my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) say . George be accredit to the cwgc and tend those grave for no money , simply because he feel that the poor devil who lie underground there deserve to be hugely respect . I be afraid that I have see quite a few individual war grave in the UK that suffer from a lack of care . I know that solve that problem be difficult for the cwgc because its resource be finite . it do its good , and there be no easy solution . it be not the fault of the cwgc , but I wish there be a way for all grave of service personnel , wherever they be , to be keep to the normal excellent standard that the cwgc set . in summary , I pay huge tribute to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . I thank our two colleague who be commissioner . the CWGC do its good to ensure that those of we who live today be remind of those normally very young man , and sometimes young woman , who lose everything before they have really start their adult life . those people do a huge service for we ; we be here because of they . I thank the Commonwealth War Graves Commission for look after they . I begin by thank the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for their service as commissioner on the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . I also wish to comment on the speech of the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) and for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) . the word that they have speak today not only honour the war dead , but show a special passion and commitment to those people . in particular , I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Beckenham who have see sight that none of we in this place could possibly imagine . I want to place on record my thank to he for what he have do for our armed force , and for the service and commitment that he continue to give to they . I shadow the right hon . member for Horsham for three year . I hear many of his speech , but none be as passionate or as dignified as the one that he have just give to the House , and he can be truly proud of those people that he speak about today . in debate such as this , I often feel full of regret . my grandfather have be dead now for 27 year . he serve in the second world war for the Scottish Highlanders . I never get to sit down and ask he why a Welshman from the south Wales valley find himself in the Scottish Highlanders during the second world war . but , like so many other people , he rarely talk about his experience during the war . it be interesting that we commemorate War Graves Week this week . I think of Harry Patch , the last fight Tommy , who die some 15 year ago . if anybody want to read about the brutality of war , they should read a passage from his book , " the last fight Tommy " . he describe find a young lad from a Company , who have be rip from his shoulder to his waist . he be beyond human help . his word be : " shoot I " . but before Patch could get his revolver out to put the lad out of his misery , he die . his last word be simply , " Mother " . you can not read those word and not realise that each and every one of those grave that the Commonwealth War Graves Commission uphold have a very personal human story . even though many of they would have be dead now for hundred of year , the fact be that they be once somebody ' s wife , somebody ' s husband , somebody ' s lover , somebody ' s brother , and they all will have personal story . People who know I know that I can often bore for Britain about football . my interest have always be in the 1960 and 1970 , but , over the past year , I have be very draw to the Football Battalion , also know as the 17th Middlesex Regiment and the 23rd Middlesex Regiment , which recruit footballer and supporter to fight in world war one , where they fight in the Somme and Passchendaele . there be story of people such as Walter Tull , the very first black man ever to command a company in the British Army . he join the 17th Middlesex Regiment , but be invalid out for what we know today as post - traumatic stress disorder . he go back . he be commission as an officer for 23rd Middlesex Regiment . he die at the battle of the Somme on 25 March 1918 , at the end of the war . his body be never recover — even though his fellow goalkeeper from Leicester Fosse , Tom Billingham , try to save he , he could not find his body . he be believe to be bury in the Somme somewhere . his name be commemorate with the 34 , 000 other at the memorial in northern France . I also want to talk about two friend , Richard McFadden and William Jonas . they grow up together in Scotland . they be as close as brother and be both striker with Clapton Orient . McFadden end up a company sergeant . when they be together in a trench under heavy shell fire , Jonas jump out and say , " good luck to my love and my wife , Mary Jane " , and hand something to McFadden . when McFadden open his hand , he find a locket that Jonas want he to give to his wife . McFadden then write a letter back to Clapton Orient to tell they of their loss . by the time that letter be receive , McFadden have join Jonas . however , McFadden die in a field hospital and have a grave . that be why it be so vital that we uphold these grave . so many people who go to world war one be lie on those battlefield — nameless , no one know where they be — but they be commemorate by their family . we be now reach the very end of that world war two generation ; someone who be 21 in 1945 would now be 98 . those of we who go to the remembrance service watch as they get old , with their walking stick , their crutch and their wheelchair , and see their dwindle number , but still they come . they come to honour their friend and comrade . still they walk — but one day they will not be there . I hope that , just as we honour Harry Patch when he pass away , the last fight Tommy of this country , with 1 , 000 people come to his funeral and the then Duchess of Cornwall attend , we will afford the same honour to whoever that last veteran of world war two be . as we see with the passing of the Queen in September 2022 , there be very few of that generation leave . we owe they a debt of honour , for we would not be stand in this seat of democracy if they have not go out to fight , though it be not just what they do in world war two but what they do afterwards . without complaint , they roll up their sleeve and rebuild this bomb - damage country so that future generation could enjoy the freedom they fight for . that be why it be vital that we have a commitment from the Government that we will remember they properly , and we will mark their passing in a way that be appropriate . the other thing the Commonwealth War Graves Commission do , its most important work , be to fight against the very real threat of fake news and the challenging of archive and document . those who deny thing that be suppose to have happen in the past will challenge document , but when they be face with memorial , when they have to stand at those grave , they can not deny that those thing happen . they can not deny world war one , or world war two , or all the other dispute we be involve with . that be why the cwgc be vital . as other hon . member have say , our armed force footprint be decline year by year . young people do not have any connection any more with the armed force . for example , as I have say , my grandfather be the last military man to serve in our family , and he would be over 100 now . it be vital that we ensure that school and community group be make aware of that sacrifice . this have be an emotional debate , but also the House at its very good — we often say that , and we often overuse the word " courage " and " heroism " as though they be just word we pluck from the air . but as Harry Kane , the England captain , who do vital work as an ambassador for the Royal British Legion , say when talk about the football battalion , " one day you be just play football and the next you be risk your life . " that bring home what those people go through . I want to end with Harry Patch , who I find an inspiration . he say he be guide by the simple word of Moses , " thou shalt not kill . " when he be face with a German , he could not bring himself to kill that person , so he shoot he in the shoulder . it be vital that we remember the horror of war , that we pay tribute to those who go and fight for our armed service , and finally that we as a government do something to honour they , so that we can all join together in an act of remembrance . I have to say , in my 32 year of history in this Parliament , I be hear some of the fine speech I have ever hear . absolutely superb . until now , Mr Deputy Speaker ! however , I wholly agree with you : we have have an afternoon of most magnificent speech . one of the most notable feature of they all be that they have bring to life the whole act of remembrance , not by grand gesture or huge strategic consideration , but by reference to very particular detail : family member , local people , constituency event and story from the day of our great war . the hon . member for Islwyn ( Chris Evans ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) — who be , symbolically , now sit together — both give the most magnificent speech . they be able to do so because they know those fact thank to the huge work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . rather than try to emulate the wonderfully move speech that we have hear , I want to contemplate for a moment what we be try to do in this work , through the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and the Royal British Legion , and in our constituency on Remembrance Sunday . it be absolutely right and proper that we pay due respect and honour to those who have give their life for King and country . I attend nearly all of the 347 repatriation through Wootton Bassett . the people of the town stop on 134 occasion to pay their respect to those dead body as they come down the high street , and I be glad that the name of the town be change to Royal Wootton Bassett as a result . however , the people of the town be not make any kind of political comment in do so . they be not say that they support the war in Afghanistan and Iraq that we be go through at the time ; they be not say that they believe the Government or the Army be do a good job . they be pay their respect to individual who have give their life under order . it seem to I , then , that when we look at the wonder of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission cemeterie across France and elsewhere around the world , and indeed here in the UK , it be not about the people who have tragically die , who will not benefit from the magnificence of the cemetery . there be three reason the cemetery be so superb . one be to remind we — we who be leave — of the awfulness of war . we need to realise , as we see the ten of thousand of body lay out in front of we , that that be the meaning of warfare , and that we must do all we can to stop and avoid it in future . it be a memorial to remind we all that warfare be a terrible thing . secondly , it be terribly important that we say to our serve soldier , sailor and air people that if they pay the ultimate sacrifice and die in service , they will be properly remember . for those who do what no normal citizen would be ask to do — close with and seek to kill the King ' s enemy — it be important to know that if the bad happen , they will be properly commemorate and their family and friend will be able to visit their grave and know what they do . that be a second good reason why the cwgc work be so very important . the third reason , which be mention a moment ago , be that family otherwise have nothing to latch on to . I see many of they in Royal Wootton Basset . the family have nothing leave . very often , as in the first and second world war , they do not even have a body leave . have a beautiful stone , design by Lutyens , Baker and other , lay out in a wonderful cemetery , with superb flower — my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) make a good point about the flower and plant that the CWGC specialise in — give the family a focus . so many family in this country spend time go out to where their love one fall . it give they a focus for their grief and to remember their fall relation and friend . for those three reason , the cemetery be very important . it be not just about the work of the cwgc , as I will touch on briefly . I be very proud of the fact that we have welcome to the House on a large number of occasion return brigade from both Iraq and Afghanistan . it be important that we do that and pay tribute to those who give service to our armed service , but also that we remember those who have not come home with they . some of the most poignant moment in those " welcome home " ceremony over the year have be when the boy and girl in the parade remember those they have leave behind . that be one of the most important thing about those occasion . I be very glad that we be establish a parliamentary remembrance stone at the National Arboretum — not far from your constituency , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be very important that we should do that , and I be glad that Mr Speaker ' s initiative be now be take forward and will shortly become a reality . my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) refer to the plaque around the wall in the Chamber . my own predecessor , Captain Cazalet , who be kill in 1942 in the Sikorski crash in Gibraltar , be commemorate above the door behind the Speaker ' s Chair . it be terribly important that we have that commemoration , not necessarily for the people who be commemorate , but so those who be leave know that the same thing would happen for we if we be in that position . these thing be terribly important , and it be right that we commemorate people in that way . if we believe that it be our sacred duty to remember and pay tribute to those who have die , and to think about the sacrifice they make and the awfulness of war , the way we do that be through the wonderful work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . many of the speaker this afternoon have speak about the very large number of grave and graveyard around the world , include those in the United Kingdom . I will not repeat what those member have say , but all my life — whether it be in Belgium , in the Falklands , or elsewhere around the world — I have be deeply move by see those graveyard . every time I go into one , I can hardly contain myself ; they be so magnificent . I absolutely adore the Commonwealth War Graves Commission ' s cemetery . it be terribly important that we honour our war dead so well — I fear that other nation do not do so in the same way . I be sometimes particularly disappointed , for example , by the argentinian graveyard in the Falklands , which could do with some more work . our be simply superb . they be just magnificent , and I be therefore very glad to have the opportunity this afternoon to salute the work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , which do a magnificent job in commemorate our war dead . my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham be the chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for battlefield and Commonwealth war grave . he do great work , and I commend he for the battlefield tour that he have lead over the year . the most important moment of all those tour be when we visit the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , and I hope my right hon . friend will carry on that work in future . great love hath no man than this , that he lie down his life for his friend . I therefore salute the work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , which commemorate that fact . as you have say , Mr Deputy Speaker , it be a great honour to speak in this afternoon ' s debate , and we be certainly hear some great contribution from member . I be very proud to be able to take part in this debate . the work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission be very important to many people . it may not be an issue that constituent write to we about , but the value of the commission ' s work — particularly to the ability of our constituent to visit war grave — be underestimate . as have be say , the Commonwealth War Graves Commission be a global organisation that take responsibility for the commemoration of more than 1 . 7 million casualty in over 23 , 000 location in 153 different country . in 2005 , I travel out of the libyan desert , northward along the coast road to Alexandria in Egypt , and myself and the only other Brit in our expedition insist that we stop at El Alamein to visit the cemetery there . the other in our delegation could not understand why we insist on do so , and be amazed at our persistence in demand that we do . there , 7 , 240 Commonwealth soldier be inter at what be an incredible location : row upon row of stone alongside immaculate garden , and a great credit to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . however , there be also Commonwealth War Graves Commission grave in this country . as a regular visitor to churchyard across the UK , it interest I to discover sign at the entrance that state that those churchyard contain ground of Commonwealth war grave , and I always search out their location . in the Hendon cemetery and crematorium , there be 69 Commonwealth burial from the first world war and 156 from the second world war . those whose grave be not mark by headstone be name on two screen wall memorial close to the cross of sacrifice . there be an additional 14 casualty from the second world war name on those screen wall who be cremate in the adjoining crematorium , and there be two non - Commonwealth service burial and one non - world war burial in the care of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . a significant reason why I support the Commonwealth War Graves Commission be that it provide a memorial not only to the dead , but for the living . that point be make by my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) . lose any relative be difficult , but to do so in conflict , when it be sudden and usually violent , be particularly hard . my great - uncle be kill in the first world war in action at Upper Oosthoek farm near Ypres on 14 February 1915 . his regiment , the 2nd Battalion East Surrey , be pass through the ruin of the farm building when heavy rifle and machine gun fire be direct at they and several man be hit . have recently return from service in India , the replacement soldier be ill equip for the wind and rain that be fall . to compound their tragedy , the attack be at a significant disadvantage in that my great - uncle and his comrade be order to advance without fire , as the trench on both flank be hold by british troop and , owe to a shortage of ammunition , there be no artillery support . however , the advance continue without hesitation , although several officer and man fall rapidly . the distance from the farm building to the objective trench be about 500 yard . a hedgerow run north and south afford some cover for the first 200 yard , but the last 300 yard lie over an open turnip field with deep clay soil . while struggle knee - deep in the mud across the field , a company be practically wipe out and c company , my great - uncle ' s section , which be follow in close support , fare little well . of the whole attack party , 35 be kill and 81 wound , while five officer be kill and six wounded . it be an honour today to be able to put on record the sacrifice that my great - uncle make because he have no known grave , and his relative have never have an opportunity to commemorate he . however , he be include on the role of honour at Chertsey war memorial as Offord , JD — Joseph Dick — and on panel 34 at the Menin Gate in Belgium . he be just 23 year of age . I only know this information about my uncle and the attack from the work undertake by my cousin Mark Offord in research our share genealogy , and I raise this as evidence of the importance of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . it be most appropriate for the Legacy of Liberation campaign to commemorate the 80th anniversary of pivotal world war two event , with a special emphasis on D - day . this debate today be particularly poignant , as I watch the lighting of the torch at the Horse Guards Parade with Peter Kent , a veteran of D - day . I be also aware of the " Lighting their Legacy " event on HMS Belfast early today , which be attend by my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) and I presume by the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . I conclude by thank both of they for their work as commissioner of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . this be a role that member undertake , and when people say that Members of Parliament be only in it for themselves , we should highlight that such work be conduct in a very quiet and dignified fashion , without fuss and fanfare . on behalf of my great - uncle Joseph Dick Offord and everyone who pay the ultimate sacrifice , I say thank you to the commissioner and every single employee and volunteer at the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) , who make a very powerful speech . there have be so many powerful and emotive speech , and so many member have eloquently and articulately set out why the work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission be so important . as other right hon . and hon . member have say , it be a great honour to speak in this debate . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a reservist . I be very proud to represent Colchester , which be the home of 16 Air Assault Brigade . it be a long - time garrison town , and now a garrison city . I think the first garrison in Colchester be form shortly after the roman invasion in AD 43 and it have be a garrison ever since , but it have be a very important garrison since the napoleonic war . as an important garrison town , we have a large military cemetery in Colchester . it contain 114 Commonwealth war grave from the second world war and 266 war grave from the first world war . on Remembrance Sunday , we have a very well attend service at the war memorial , which thousand of Colcestrians attend . in fact , every year the crowd get large , but few be aware of the two service hold beforehand at both the first world war and second world war memorial in Colchester cemetery , very close to the military cemetery . it be Colchester cemetery that I will speak about this afternoon in this War Graves Week debate . those of we on the glide path out of politic tend to look back at our time in this place as a parliamentarian and the change and the difference we have try to make . with that in mind I would like to pay tribute to a constituent of mine who I have be honour to support . on my election to this House in 2015 I be approach by Mike Jackson specifically about Colchester cemetery . Mike and Sue Jackson be two of the most inspirational people I have ever meet . they have raise over £ 275 , 000 for help for Heroes in memory of their late son - in - law Kevin , or Kev , Fortuna . they initially set out to raise £ 10 , 000 and they just do not stop . Colour Serjeant Kev Fortuna of a Company , 1st Battalion the Rifles be tragically kill in May 2011 on active duty in Afghanistan . Mike have be raise the issue of war grave with my predecessor , Sir Bob Russell , and on my election Mike ask I to come with he to visit Colchester cemetery and of course I accept . he show I the part of the cemetery with the first and second world war grave , which be beautifully maintain by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . he then show I the war grave of those who have tragically lose their life after the end of the second world war , which of course include the grave of Colour Serjeant Fortuna . shamefully , despite the good effort of several family member who live locally , the war grave be not maintain to anywhere near the standard of those of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . after research Mike and I identify this be not a Colchester - unique issue ; it be a national issue . Mike and I agree to work together to address this and campaign for change . I write to , and secure a meeting with , Earl Howe of the other place , then a Defence Minister . he explain that the remit of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission be the first and second world war grave and any war grave thereafter be maintain by the Ministry of Defence . he explain that the MOD budget for war grave maintenance be around a third of that of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and , as sympathetic as he be , he suggest I speak with the Chancellor of the Exchequer . so we secure a meeting with the Chancellor of the Exchequer , who be George Osborne at the time , and I recall it vividly . any parliamentary colleague who have ever go to ask the Chancellor , or any Treasury Minister , for money know that be no easy task ; especially for an MP in their first year , the default response be usually " no " — or at least it start with " no " . however , to his great credit , this meeting with George Osborne be very different . we set out the fact , we explain the background , we speak about Mike Jackson ' s campaign and how wrong it be that Kev Fortuna ' s family be maintain his grave , not to mention the grave of those who have fall without love one nearby to tend to their grave . to George Osborne ' s credit , he put out his hand to stop I mid - sentence and say . " that isn ' t right . leave it with I , but I assure you I ' m go to fix it . " and just a handful of week later at the spending review and autumn statement , George Osborne announce the Government would fund the brilliant Commonwealth War Graves Commission so it could tend over 6 , 000 grave of those who have die fighting for our country since the second world war . that in effect mean £ 2 million as an initial up - front sum and then fund as a commitment in perpetuity for all war grave to be maintain by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . I pay tribute to George Osborne for see this injustice and put it right , and I want to thank and pay tribute to Mike Jackson for his determination to right this injustice . his campaign have benefit not just Colchester but more than 1 , 200 location where there be war grave . finally , but by no mean least , I want to pay tribute to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission for the incredible work it do locally , nationally and internationally . of course I welcome the uplift in funding announce by the Secretary of State . commemoration matter ; recognise sacrifice matter . we must and we will remember they . Mr Deputy Speaker , I completely agree with your word early that this have be an astonishingly eloquent debate , not least the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , who have just contribute . it be therefore a privilege and an honour to participate in it . I be very proud to have Brookwood military cemetery in my constituency of Woking . it be own by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and it be the large Commonwealth war cemetery in the United Kingdom , cover approximately 37 acre . in 1917 , an area of land in Brookwood cemetery — or the London Necropolis , as it be know then — be set aside for the burial of man and woman of the force of the Commonwealth and Americans who have die , many from battle wound , in the London district . this site be far extend to accommodate the Commonwealth casualty of the second world war . there be a large Royal Air Force section in the south - east corner of the cemetery , which also contain the grave of czechoslovakian and american airman who serve with the Royal Air Force . the Air Force shelter nearby house the register of those bury in the section . a plot in the west corner of the cemetery contain approximately 2 , 400 canadian grave of the second world war , include those of 43 man who die of wound follow the Dieppe raid in August 1942 . the canadian record building , which be a gift of the Canadian Government in 1946 , house a reception room for visitor . in addition to the Commonwealth plot , the cemetery also contain french , polish , czechoslovakian , belgian and italian section , and a number of war grave of other nationality , all care for by the commission . the elegant and impose american military cemetery be the responsibility of the American Battle Monuments Commission . it be maintain every bit as carefully and meticulously as the rest of Brookwood military cemetery . the cemetery now contain 1 , 601 Commonwealth burial of the first world war and 3 , 476 of the second world war . of the second world war burial , five be unidentified , three be member of the RAF and two be member of the Royal Canadian Air Force . the war grave of other nationality in the commission ' s care number 786 , include 28 unidentified French . as an agency service on behalf of the Royal Hospital Chelsea , the commission also maintain a plot for the grave of the Chelsea pensioner , situate adjacent to the military cemetery . it also maintain a small plot contain the grave of 12 member of the nursing service in the adjoining Brookwood cemetery , which be also in the commission ' s care . the Brookwood 1939 to 1945 memorial stand at the southern end of the canadian section of the cemetery . it commemorate 3 , 500 man and woman of the land force of the Commonwealth who die during the second world war and have no know grave , the circumstance of their death be such that they could not appropriately be commemorate in any of the campaign memorial in the various theatre of war . they die in the campaign in Norway in 1940 or in the various raid on enemy occupy territory in Europe , such as Dieppe and Saint - Nazaire . other be special agent who die as prisoner or while work with ally underground movement . some die at sea , in hospital ship and troop transport , in water not associate with the major campaign . a few be kill in fly accident or in aerial combat . some of the story about the life , service and death of these man and woman , particularly those of the special agent , be truly remarkable , fascinating and incredibly move . a fine new Brookwood 1914 to 1918 memorial be build during my time as Woking ' s MP in 2015 . it commemorate casualty who die in the United Kingdom during the first world war , but for whom no grave could be find . Most of the historical information that I have share with the House come directly from the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , which do an amazing job . what that can not convey be the beauty — the terrible beauty , almost — of Brookwood military cemetery . whether it be in the snow in wintertime , or rain , or the glorious sunshine that have come out for many of the event that take place during the summer month , it be an incredibly beautiful and move place . of all the event , service , commemoration and concert that I attend , I enjoy most of all the open day where the commission invite the public to come and see the cemetery , the commitment and professionalism of the stone mason and gardener , and explain the work that it do . the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) and other mention how the commission help to track down military grave outside our major cemetery . if it can not look after those grave , volunteer come forward . I pay tribute to all 2 , 000 of those volunteer who help out in the UK maintain grave and tell the commission when a grave be not be keep properly or the stone have break . it be move for I to have Brookwood military cemetery in my constituency . we can look at those grave , which be mainly of young man and woman . I study the first world war , and for many people in our country , that war — those four year of terrible slaughter — come out of the clear blue sky . for the second world war , the dark cloud be more obvious and last long . man and woman of our country and allied nation around the world come forward in that hour of need , and we have be pay tribute to their ultimate sacrifice . I have enjoy attend many of the event of my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) , who have chair the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force for so many year . it be interesting to hear the story of our top armed force general , admiral , chief and so forth from the inside . they be in no doubt that , if the call come , not just our generation — by and large , those of we in the House be too old to serve — but the current generation would step up in that hour of need . we have dark cloud overhead in the world . the Prime Minister speak eloquently about that in his major speech the other day . I , together with most colleague in the House — certainly those on the Government Benches — welcome his commitment to that 2 . 5 % target for our armed force go forward . I know that we have patriotic party across the House , but we need to be ready . the old axiom that to preserve the peace , we need to prepare for the eventuality of war be the message that be come to we from our military cemetery . I know that this generation would make that sacrifice , but the Government and the House need to be on their mettle to meet the threat of the world today . I begin by declare an interest as a former commissioner of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and a current trustee of the Commonwealth War Graves Foundation . the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) just describe what we all see when we visit Commonwealth war grave cemetery , with the beauty and the neatness of their line . I always find it move to read the inscription and see the young age of some of the individual who take huge responsibility to protect the freedom that we take for grant today . it do an extraordinary job of maintain those grave , not just in this country but around the world . I pay tribute to all the staff , include the current director general Claire Horton . I also pay tribute to his Royal Highness the Duke of Kent , who have be the president of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission since 1970 . when I be a commissioner he take a very active interest . commissioner today will know his interest , and he still attend ceremony on behalf of the commission , even at his advanced year . I have the honour in 2010of be appoint by the Queen as one of the two parliamentary commissioner for the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , along with my great friend Keith Simpson , who be no long in the House . like the commissioner today , we both take the role very seriously . it be one of the highlight of my parliamentary career , and a privilege to serve in that organisation . I also have the honour of be a Minister in the Ministry of Defence , responsible for the new war grave cemetery create at Fromelles in 2010 . that show that we be still find casualty throughout the world , who be still give the respectful burial that each deserve . I pay tribute to the staff who do the research , and for all their care and dedication . Fromelles be on a different scale — more than 400 body be uncover in a piece of detective work by an australian individual . it be a great honour to attend the interment of the first casualty there , along with my australian counterpart . it have be say that we think the Commonwealth War Graves Commission be a great british institution , but like a lot of thing in the UK , it come into be by accident . the tenacity of Fabian Ware ' s great registration scheme in the first world war lead to the formation of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . be it universally popular at the time ? no , it be not . I suggest that anyone with an interest in how it come to be read the debate of 4 May 1920 , when the money be be apportion to set it up follow the great war . be it a foregone conclusion ? no , it be not . People argue against it , such as the Member for Holborn , Sir James Remnant , who argue that the dead be not the property of the state . it be quite a new thing then for the state to take the decision , because in other campaign , body be repatriate if people could afford it . one individual in that debate oppose what he call the nationalisation of death . the commission be set up uniquely by dedicated individual . at an italian war cemetery , the general ' grave be huge mausoleum , and the private be stick behind . the Commonwealth War Graves Commission be clear that in death , everyone be equal . that be an important message and be why the standard commemoration be put in place . no exception be make . one of the most poignant thing for I be not the grave themselves but the name of individual — general can be next to private . there be no rank in death . an example that sum that up well be down at the Hollybrook memorial in Southampton , which commemorate those lose at sea . there be Lord Kitchener , and then a long list of name of those from the south african labour corp who be lose in an accident off the Isle of Wight . that show what the commission do and continue to do to ensure that individual be remember , regardless of their status . when I be a commissioner , I have the great honour of visit the commission ' s staff around the world , include , as I think the Secretary of State mention , in Gaza . it be not the easy part of the world , but the dedication of the staff be just the same . I will certainly be think of they today , and the job that they do . the cemetery be beautiful . the most poignant one that I visit be in Papua New Guinea . it be in the middle of a jungle , but be beautifully maintain by the staff . as the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) say , the staff look after not just the memorial and the gravestone , but the horticulture . I be a bit of an anorak on the subject , but if anyone want to look at the horticulture of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , its history be absolutely fascinating . the work of Gertrude Jekyll and other set the standard that be maintain today . as the right hon . Gentleman say , with climate change , adaptation need to be make , and the commission be at the forefront of that work . I have the honour of be a trustee of the Commonwealth War Graves Foundation . the problem with the commission , if there be one , be that its remit be very tightly control by its royal charter . when I be on the commission , one of the issue be whether , technically , we be able to do education . it do not fall within the remit , so we come up with the idea of the foundation . I encourage everyone to look at the foundation ' s website , and ask those who be not already member of the foundation to join , so as to support its educational work . it be great at take the work of remembrance , and of the commission , to school and so on . that work be not just about remember the commission ' s iconic site in France , but about get people to recognise what they have on their doorstep . that form the subject of a project that I work on when I be a commissioner . there be war grave in our local cemetery . in my constituency , there be a number of single grave , but also 24 in Stanley cemetery and 12 in Sacriston cemetery . the Commonwealth War Graves Foundation be try to ensure that people be aware of their local history , because the people in those cemetarie be mainly local people . when we look into the story , which some great local group be do , we find that the reason why grave be in a particular place can be very interesting . in County Durham , there be the grave of an australian bomber crew who be kill return from a training mission . I think someone refer to this site early when discuss the commission ' s work with its international partner , but in Cannock Chase there be some 400 casualty from Australia and New Zealand , alongside nearly 2 , 000 german casualty — zeppelin crew and so on — who die mainly during the first world war . that show that the commission work internationally . why be there 400 australian and New Zealand casualty in Cannock Chase , of all place ? well , it be a very sad story . it be a casualty clearing station , and the casualty go there after the first world war , have survive the horror of the western front , only to die , in most case , of spanish flu . casualty turn up in different place for interesting reason . we in the Commonwealth War Graves Foundation be keen to work with local group . we have volunteer who not only maintain grave but work on history project . it be important to get school involve . we also have a lecture programme ; people can ask for a lecture from a volunteer , and I be one . I be qualified to give the Commonwealth War Graves Foundation lecture to local group . I encourage everyone to look at our website and try to get their community involve . they will be amazed to see what be on their doorstep . that be an important way of bring not just the work of the commission but local history to life . I have sit here quietly so far , and I almost hesitate to intervene because this be a very dignified debate , but the right hon . Member be make an extremely important point . in my home town of Tain , way up in the highland , we have 30 war grave , and many be the grave of Czech airman , which reflect exactly the point that the right hon . member make . for 35 year , two people , Billy and Mary Grant , have look after those grave out of the goodness of their heart . I have mention they deliberately ; I want they to have their name in Hansard because of all the good that they have do . the right hon . member ' s point be excellently make , and I support it to the hilt . I thank those volunteer , but the hon . Gentleman have raise another interesting point . these be not just british casualty ; throughout the United Kingdom , there be casualty from all nation that contribute to our effort in both world war . as I have say , I be passionate about this subject . I think the two commissioner in the House will confirm that once you have be a commissioner , you have it in your blood . I know I be a pain when I go to a funeral or a wedding , because I always go around the cemetery to see whether there be any Commonwealth War Graves Commission site . the commission have take a great step forward in digitise information and give visibility to the casualty who be bury not in large cemetery , but on our doorstep . let I end by pay tribute not only to the commission ' s current staff member , but to those who have go before . they be loyal , dedicated individual . be this about glorify war ? no , it be not ; it be about recognise the sacrifice that people make , and let we hope that we can continue to do that . it be poignant , especially give the war that be take place in Europe , to recognise the sacrifice that be make on our behalf in the past so that we can enjoy our freedom today . I call the shadow Minister . this have be an excellent debate . the House be at its good when people come together to share knowledge , and detail that shed light on a subject and add to the richness of our understanding , without recourse to the tribalism that occasionally mar our proceeding . let I begin by acknowledge the view , express by many today , that it be our duty to remember those who have serve and the sacrifice that they make . we have an obligation to look after their legacy , which can not and should not lessen with the passage of time . the contribution to today ' s debate have all be thoughtful , informative and move . I doubt that I can do justice to they all , but I want to acknowledge the intervention by the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , and I thank she for remind we of the difficult place and situation in which the commission operate . I also thank the Secretary of State for a very thoughtful speech , and for his positive update on the commission ' s staff who have be in Gaza , and their family . the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) describe a family connection with the salerno invasion , but he also tell we about the important role of the commission in horticulture , record keeping , forensic examination and the respectful reinternment of remain . that add to our stock of knowledge . the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) speak of a family connection , too . he give a very good account of the community involvement that can be generate , which can make a real difference . the Chair of the Defence Committee , the right hon . member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , remind we of the scale of loss during the first world war , and of the age of so many who die . often they be not much old than the schoolchildren who visit the site today . my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) remind we of the role of her mother and mother - in - law , and of the role of woman in both munition and the Women ' s Auxiliary Air Force . my mother and aunt play similar role . my right hon . Friend also remind we of the Kranji war memorial in Singapore , and of the prisoner of war who lose their life during the building of the death railway . I have great affection for the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) , and I have hear many of his move account of the horror of war in this place . today , he give a typically thoughtful and move account of the personal situation in which people sometimes find themselves . my hon . friend the Member for Islwyn ( Chris Evans ) remind we of the nature of the personal story behind the name and inscription we read . he also point out that we owe a special debt of honour to what I might call the world war two generation . the hon . member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) already do so much in this field , and he remind we of something that be easy to overlook : the awfulness of war , and the role of memorial in both remember those lose and offer some comfort and respect to the family who remain behind . the hon . member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) give a family account of the role of his great - uncle , who be clearly engage in an act of considerable heroism . the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) remind we of his personal achievement — it be no mean feat — in persuade the former Chancellor George Osborne to expand the funding remit of the commission , so that it cover those who have be kill in conflict after world war two . the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) give a very evocative account of Brookwood cemetery , and I could visualise the layout as he describe it . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) remind I of just how long he have be in this place , and of just how much he have do . I also acknowledge the stress that he put on the role of education . as well as describe some of the thing he do during his time as a commissioner , he also make the good point that there be no rank in death . I pay tribute to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission for all the work it do to keep alive the memory of the fallen and to provide each new generation with the tool and information they need to understand their history and the sacrifice of so many . that be something that have inform my effort over 18 year of bring generation together , especially school pupil and veteran , to understand and celebrate veteran event and Armed Forces Days in my constituency . this be a subject that invite agreement . I acknowledge the dedicated work of all member of the commission . I also acknowledge the sterling work of my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , which have already be raise today , to ensure that the contribution of thousand of individual from across Africa , India , the middle east and elsewhere be not overlook and that their rightful place in history be recognise . the commission ' s work , support by its wonderful volunteer , help to maintain about 23 , 000 memorial site across the world , to keep record , to create space to remember the fallen and to provide a final resting place for those who have die , sometimes many mile from home . I also commend the work of the commission on develop new tool to help the rest of we to make sense of what be happen . before I come into the Chamber today , I use that wonderful tool that allow we to find out detail from our area by punch in a postcode . I discover that where I live today be very close to the house that be the home of Private Edward Harry Bate Crofts of the Royal Warwickshire Regiment , who die on 17 April 1915 age 22 and be remember at the Ploegsteert Memorial in Belgium . he be the only son of Edward and Clara Crofts of 59 Franklin Road , Bournville , Birmingham . we have learn today that there be thing in this House that can bring we all together , that enable we to put aside our difference and help other to understand what sacrifice have mean in the past , and how important it be to the world that we now face in the future . I commend everyone who take part in this debate , and I thank the Commonwealth War Graves Commission for its outstanding work . I hope that we will be here to celebrate its effort for many year to come . this have be a powerful and measure debate , and I be grateful to the Opposition Front Benchers and all hon . and right hon . and gallant Members for the sincerity and power with which they have express themselves this afternoon . my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) reflect on his important work as a commissioner and the importance of the parliamentary connection with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . I be very interested to hear he refer to the action at Salerno , in which his grandfather win the Military Cross . he speak about the global scale of the commission ' s challenge in maintain grave in some of the most difficult circumstance , and in the continue recovery of the fall , which set the context nicely for the commemoration that will take place in Normandy for D - day 80 . I be glad that he refer to the outreach in school , which will be an important component of that hugely important commemorative event . the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) recall the service of his family member and the important step take by the local community in create initiative for remembrance . he also speak about the important role play by merchant seaman , who be sometimes overlook , and the commemoration thereof . my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , the Chair of the Defence Committee , make a very moving speech about the scale of the impact , reflect by the fact that both the Prime Minister and the leader of the Labour party lose son at Loos in 1915 . he also speak about the scale of sacrifice by the Commonwealth contingent and the scale of effort in commemorate 1 . 7 million fall across 23 , 000 location in 153 country . my right hon . Friend also speak movingly about a 99 - year - old Normandy veteran in his constituency who ask , " why they and not we ? " that perennial question , which haunt all those involve in any form of operational soldiering , be at the heart of remembrance and everything we do therein . it be at the heart of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission ' s work . the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) be also a commissioner whose work we hugely appreciate . she speak appropriately about the very important role of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission ' s staff and leadership . we be grateful to she for put that on the record , and I second her sentiment in appreciate the tremendous role they play . the right hon . Lady speak very interestingly about her father ' s role in the senior service and her mother ' s role in a munition factory , which will reflect the family experience of many right hon . and hon . member and many constituent . she also mention the huge scale of service from the Yorkshire regiment and the Singapore memorial at Kranji . I be grateful that she conclude by say that the " Torch of Liberation " be pass this morning — my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary be there — and that it will now make its way to Normandy next month . that will be an important and very moving act of remembrance . I note the welcome presence of the Secretary of State at such a debate . as the only MP whose father be kill in the war , I owe great thank to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and its volunteer for all the work they do in look after my father ' s grave at St Manvieu in Normandy , where he be kill in action against a Panzer division on 13 July 1944 and win the Military Cross . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for all the work he be do in this respect . it be my great honour to acknowledge my hon . friend ' s intervention and to put on record our gratitude for his father ' s heroism in action , for which he be posthumously award the Military Cross . the Secretary of State inform I that arrangement have be make so that my hon . friend will be able to attend the commemoration event in Normandy next month , which will be a very fitting tribute to the memory of his late , gallant father . my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) tell a very moving story of sacrifice involve the 2nd Cheshire Regiment ' s role in the invasion of Sicily , involve young officer Cox and Martin . he refer very poetically to " many kind of sorrow " but , of course , none be so keen as a soldier ' s for his mate . the House receive his remark in the context of his own distinguished and gallant record . we be proud to have hear his reflection today . he speak about the 2 , 135 Commonwealth war grave in the Catania cemetery , which indicate the sheer scale of loss and sacrifice . that sentiment be reflect in the welcome remark from the hon . member for Islwyn ( Chris Evans ) , who speak movingly about his grandfather ' s service in , somewhat unexpectedly , but no less honourably , the Highlanders . the hon . Gentleman also speak movingly about the reflection of Harry Patch , the last fight Tommy , in explain the human toll and the remarkable human story behind all the statistic therein . he speak movingly about the experience of the football regiment and the story of McFadden and Jonas . he also talk about how we have a dwindle number of world war two veteran and of the world war two generation , and so the challenge remain for we to make commemoration relevant and urgent . clearly , the outcome of the work of the CWGC do exactly that . the commemoration next month at Normandy will be a welcome focus , and I be grateful for his remark . characteristically , my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) make some cogent remark . we pay tribute to his continued work to support veteran and the act of remembrance . he speak about the important role of Royal Wootton Bassett , what a physical commemoration mean to family of the fallen and the sheer move experience of visit cwgc cemetery . my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) speak interestingly and movingly about a visit he make in 2005 to the El Alamein cemetery . I join he in that sentiment , as I have be there ; the 7 , 240 grave be a remarkable sight against the backdrop of the north african desert . he make the good point that these place be important for not just the dead , but the living ; the family and the survivor need the physical aspect of commemoration to help they deal with the grief . he give we a move story about what happen in the first world war to his great - uncle . he be commemorate on the Menin Gate and that be most welcome . I join my hon . friend in sincerely thank the commissioner and the staff of the CWGC for their work . my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) give an interesting insight into the effective campaign of General Jackson and other to ensure that the 6 , 000 grave of those fall after 1945 be appropriately support and maintain . my hon . Friend make a reference to the fact that he be on his way out of politic , which might give he an opportunity to expand and deepen his fledgling military career . his remark today be very cogent and we be grateful for they , because Colchester have a very important place in our national defence . my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Lord ) describe the amazing scale of Brookwood , a place I know well because it be near my constituency , and the sum of the 5 , 627 grave there . I be grateful to he for highlight the importance of that historic location . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) refer to his time as a commissioner , for which we be most grateful . I be very pleased that he put on record the gratitude of this House for the amazing work over many , many year of his Royal Highness the Duke of Kent . the right hon . Gentleman make the good point that casualty be still be recover to this day and that that present a considerable challenge . he also make the moving point that the principle of equality in death be very important to the commission — it be one we all support . whether or not he have a wedding to attend near Aldershot , he be very welcome to come to explore the nearly 1 , 000 war grave we have in Aldershot one weekend . they be maintain to a very high standard . we have indeed see the House at its good today , united , respectful and sincerely grateful to the cwgc and to the million of our forebear who serve and sacrifice in the 20th century so that we could be free in the 21st . the sheer scale of the commission ' s undertake to maintain and restore monument and memory be immense , and its impact on every generation , include future generation to come , be of course priceless . it provide an appreciation of our history ; a deep appreciation of our freedom and our democracy ; and an appreciation of service and of all those who give their life , and all those who be prepared to do that , so that we , in this Chamber , could be free today . on behalf of the whole House , I be very grateful . we say thank you to all those involve for the work of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and thank you to all those whom they help we to commemorate . this have be an excellent debate . it be sad and unfortunate that those who comment upon what go on in this Chamber and the work that Members of Parliament do be , quite frankly , too lazy to report a debate like this , when the House be work together , across party , in a very good cause . I suppose I be lay down a challenge to those who report the proceeding of this Chamber , to report this debate and give it the attention that it deserve , particularly in comparison to other time when the House be full but far less productive . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider War Graves Week . business without Debate Committees with the leave of the House , I propose to take motion 6 to 11 together . order , European Scrutiny that Dame Andrea Jenkyns be discharge from the European Scrutiny Committee and Brendan Clarke - Smith be add . Home Affairs that Lee Anderson be discharge from the Home Affairs Committee and Brendan Clarke - Smith be add . justice that Paul Maynard be discharge from the Justice Committee and Andy Carter and Dehenna Davison be add . level up , Housing and Communities that Mrs Natalie Elphicke be discharge from the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and Steve Tuckwell be add . Northern Ireland Affairs that Damian Collins be add to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . petition that Matt Vickers and Tom Hunt be discharge from the Petitions Committee and Tracey Crouch and Peter Gibson be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - RBS Bank Closure in Linlithgow and East Falkirk I rise to present a petition relate to the Royal Bank of Scotland closure in Linlithgow and East Falkirk . my constituency boast the large electorate in Scotland , but follow the announcement that the Bathgate branch of RBS will close , we will have no remain RBS branch in the constituency . banking have change considerably in the past 25 year , since I work in the sector . the pace of change have increase since covid , with many people find online and digital banking more convenient . however , there remain a significant proportion of our community who , for one reason or another , do not do digital banking , and they will be at a serious disadvantage as a result of the closure . they require face to face contact and good , ready access to cash . the petitioner request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage the partially publicly - own NatWest to keep open their last remain RBS branch in Linlithgow and East Falkirk to ensure resident have access to in - person banking provision . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that the announcement that the Royal Bank of Scotland , own by NatWest , plan to close its Bathgate branch will have a detrimental impact on the local community ; far that this mean that RBS will have close all of its branch in the constituency ; further recognise that the removal of high street branch will have a significant impact on those in the community who do not use digital banking ; note that this decision will leave resident in the town with access to just one full time bank branch ; further note that constituent will have to travel to Livingston to visit their near RBS branch . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage the partially publicly - own NatWest to keep open their last remain RBS branch in Linlithgow and East Falkirk to ensure resident have access to in - person banking provision . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002978 ] Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of Colin and Janet Smith and Lin Ashcroft from Newport East , who have spend many year fight for their love one , who be victim of the contaminated blood scandal . Colin and Janet ' s son , Colin , die aged just seven , have receive blood product contaminate with HIV and hepatitis C at just 10 month old . just a few month before Colin ' s death , Lin lose her husband , Bill , who also contract HIV through contaminate blood product . for year both family , like so many other impact by this disaster , face discrimination . on Friday , Colin tell I that 30 year ago they would have be more likely to get a brick through the window instead of signature of support , which make the stack of paper I have here today even more important . almost 1 , 000 signature from people across Newport East have be collect by Laura Smith , the Smiths ' daughter - in - law , who deserve much thank . they be collect with much love for Colin . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Newport East , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait for too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002980 ] I rise to present a petition in the same term as that so eloquently present by my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) just a few moment ago . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who have lead the fight for justice for victim of the infected blood scandal in this House . my constituent Sue Sparkes lose her husband , Les , owe to infected blood in 1990 , leave their two son without a father . she have be tirelessly fight for justice ever since . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Cardiff West , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait for too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002984 ] I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent in Croydon Central and of all those affect by the contaminated blood scandal , and on the same topic as those present by my hon . friend the Members for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) and for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) . I add my thank to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her tireless work in pursue justice . I be present this petition with one constituent in mind who have suffer for many year with undiagnosed hepatitis C as a result of have a transfusion of infected blood . she come to see I recently to help I understand the scale of the scandal and its human impact . her story and those of many more have be bypass and overlook for far too long . the petitioner " request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Croydon Central , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait for too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc ] . [ p002981 ] crime : Birmingham , Edgbaston Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) it be a pleasure to speak on behalf of my constituent in this debate on crime in Birmingham , Edgbaston . I be pleased that I have be able to secure it , as it come on the back of a spate of issue that constituent have raise with I in the past number of year , which appear to be get bad . in the west midland , neighbourhood crime have be steadily rise since 2020 . although the title of this debate cover Birmingham , Edgbaston , I know that the experience and challenge that we face in my constituency be feel across Birmingham and the whole of England . my constituency cover the ward of Edgbaston , North Edgbaston , Harborne , Quinton and Bartley Green . let I start by focus on an issue that have be an absolute stain on the life of so many of my constituent in recent year : the rise in car - relate crime . as the Minister will no doubt be aware , this be one of the many area of crime where outcome have steadily worsen over the past 14 year . by 2010 - 11 , when Labour last leave office , vehicle theft in England and Wales have drop to a third of what they be 10 year previously . in the year since , number have rise again by a third , to over 130 , 000 . but while theft have rise , the number of case solve have not . Home Office datum for the outcome of report crime show that only 2 % of car theft record lead to a suspect be charge or summon . in total , this figure amount to 3 , 378 . a total of 76 % of car theft be not solve last year . however , what I really want to talk about today be not the headline statistic , as bleak as they be , but some of the real story behind the statistic , because debate about crime be not abstract . the experience of my constituent can not be describe by line on a chart . the result of crime be often a life shatter , confidence shake and a trail of devastation in its wake , with the victim force to pick up the piece . a recurrent issue that be cause misery for many resident be car strip . in 2022 one of my constituent have her Toyota Aygo strip at a parking bay in her residence . in a matter of 17 day , her replacement car be once again strip . on that occasion another car on the same compound be strip at the same time . my constituent ' s neighbour be a witness to the latter incident and call the police as she watch someone pick apart the car in real time , but be apparently tell by the police that they be far too busy . as my constituent put it : " I be on a state pension , and I live alone , this have cause I financial problem . but more than that it have leave I emotionally and mentally exhausted . I feel if I be to buy or borrow a car that the same would happen . the police have a great opportunity to catch the criminal and at least send a message to other . " I receive another similar case from a member of a street watch group in Harborne : " a constituent have their car target 4 time in one year and swap to another car as their Toyota Yaris be uninsurable . their new car be strip in less than a week . " a constituent from the same area contact I to say that a resident on their road have see one of these incident take place in broad daylight . she immediately ring the police but , despite inform they that she be witness the incident happen before her eye , and despite there be a police station around the corner , she be tell simply to log the incident online . the impact that these crime have on people ' s life should not be understate . I want to share the story of another of my constituent , who work within the NHS at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham in my constituency . she say : " last Thursday afternoon on my return to my vehicle after a long day in clinic , I discover that my new car of only 4 month have be steal . although my insurance be fully comprehensive , I be not entitle to a courtesy car as it have not be involve in a smash or be vandalise , and fund to cover the cost of the vehicle will not be pay out until at least 30 day have pass — in case the car be recover . as you can imagine , I be devastate , and this will impact my working day as well as my life outside massively . in our department alone , a small team of 11 , we have personally experience , break - in , steal belonging , vandalism , damage , a steal catalytic converter from my previous car 6 month ago , and now vehicle theft . we have all be witness to multiple case of car cannibalism to the car of other QEHB staff too . the only member of the team who haven ' t be directly affect be those who arrive very early and as a result be able to obtain on - site parking . there have also be multiple case of car theft and vandalism amongst the wide department staff . " we can see that these be not just isolate incident , but a pattern of worsen , more frequent and more brazen crime . for the victim , such as those hospital worker , it be devastating ; it turn ordinary people ' s live upside down and take they away from otherwise contribute to society , whether through work in the NHS , look after their family or support their community . however , particularly when so many crime go unresponded - to and unsolved , crime also have a poisonous impact on our society as a whole , because it shake our confidence in the very people and institution we be mean to trust to keep we safe . take Katy , who also find her car strip . she say : " report to the police , for reason that might be resource relate , have be inconsequential and thief seem to know that , give their increase audacity and frequency of such incident . . . this be simply a call for help since my neighbour and myself be grow increasingly hopeless . " all these thing contribute to a grow sense of despair that nothing in this country work any more . burglary be another increase issue ; it be bad enough to have one ' s car strip or steal , but it be uniquely disturbing to know that stranger have break into and steal from one ' s own home . there be a unique sense of violation and fear that many victim share with I when they find they have be burgle . one constituent who contact I tell I : " my wife be home when miscreant break into the house and since then we don ' t feel safe in our own home . during this week as many as 3 more burglary have take place . no house which be lock even for a few hour during the day be safe . . . Police official come and do the formality of paper work and rest we don ' t know . . . " . in Quinton we have face a spate of burglary , even as family be at home eat dinner and during the day . resident say they have notice how much more brazen criminal have become : they do not care if one person be in , or even if whole family be at home . that have leave resident terrify in their own home . almost all of they have Ring doorbell , but they do not seem to deter the culprit . the point I be make be that the fear that crime put into victim last so much long than the time take to experience and report the crime . as we can hear in these testimony , there be a sense that in this country certain form of crime simply happen without any consequence . that feed a sense of isolation , hopelessness and powerlessness that be corrosive to the society that we surely want to create . that be why I apply for the debate and be raise these story in the hope that the Minister can give my constituent some reassurance that the Government be take the matter seriously and that the perpetrator of these crime will see justice . on car cannibalism especially , we know that part be often steal to order and pass on for the valuable material they contain . minister have suggest previously that they would consider a review of the Scrap Metal Dealers Act 2013 if necessary . will the Minister consider it ? what additional funding have the Government make available to tackle illegal unlicensed operator in the metal recycling sector and launch a wide campaign to tackle that crime ? I appreciate that he may mention the National Police Chiefs ' Council metal crime steering group , but what action have be implement as a result of that group ' s recommendation , and how be the outcome measure ? the National Crime Agency have refer to " an overall increase in organise acquisitive crime " , include car theft . that be evident in the shocking 30 % rise in car theft in the most recent year , accord to the Home Office ' s own statistic . why do the Minister think his Government have fail to prevent serious organise crime group from take hold across Britain ' s town and high street ? a concern that my constituent raise frequently be that they do not feel that police be adequately resource to handle the crime that they report and have to deal with , and , what be more , that the reassure community police presence need to deter criminal in the first place be not there . give that 4 , 500 police community support officer have be cut since 2015 , and only 12 % of officer be assign to neighbourhood policing team , my constituent have a point , don ' t they ? over the past 14 year , the Government have oversee a litany of broken promise on police across England . the decision to cut 20 , 000 experience police officer , before try to replace they with vastly less experienced officer , be just one of a catalogue of error that have have a lasting impact on people ' s trust in the police . I have hear colleague talk about the glory day when they have five or six police officer and police community support officer in every ward , while I be have to fight to get number increase . meanwhile , the number of arrest have halve , prosecution have almost halve and the number of crime solve have halve . More crime be be report , but few crime be be solve . criminal be get away with it on this Government ' s watch . those figure be accompany by cut to youth service and other institution that be set up to support young people and reduce the cause of crime in our community . after year of Tory austerity , youth service in Birmingham have be starve of the resource they desperately need . the total core budget for youth service last year be just £ 2 . 1 million , and there be currently just 25 full - time equivalent youth worker provide service to around 120 , 000 teen across the city — one youth worker for every 4 , 600 teen . young people in my constituency deserve well . they should have the same opportunity to develop and thrive as every other child across the country . that be why the next Labour Government will launch Young Futures , a new national cross - Government programme aim at give Britain ' s young people the good start to life . a specific strand of activity will be target at the young people most at risk of be draw into violent crime , and will deliver support for young people struggle with their mental health . in my patch , the high number serious violent offence have become a persistent problem . everyone have the right to feel safe and secure in their community but , heartbreakingly , many of my constituent do not . in 2021 , our city be shake to its core by the murder of 14 - year - old Dea - John Reid . his attacker chase after he in a car , yell racist slur at he and then hunt he down — a child — like a pack of animal . Dea - John ' s death be horrify . he be a much - love young boy with so much ahead of he . to lose he in such a sudden and brutal way be heartrende . Dea - John be a victim of knife crime — and he be far from the only one . last month , it be report that the West Midlands police be have the high knife crime rate in England and Wales . last year , Birmingham be name the gun capital of the UK , have overtake London to have the high gun crime rate in the country . Gun crime have emerge as a problem that increasingly haunt my constituent . just last September in Quinton , resident be terrorise after a drive - by shooting take place on a residential street in broad daylight . a north Edgbaston constituent write to I after robber jump into her garden and try to break into her home . after fail to enter her property , the gang hold up her neighbour , who be only student , at gunpoint . what be the Minister do to tackle the surge in gun crime in Birmingham ? how do he expect my constituent to feel safe and secure in their home and community when neighbourhood police force have be decimate and crime continue to rise ? I would also like to raise the catastrophic effect of dangerous driving , speeding , car cruise and off - road bike usage that many of my constituent repeatedly experience . just yesterday morning , a child in my constituency be take to hospital after be hit by a car during rush hour on a road in Bartley Green . the road where that poor child be hit be notoriously bad for speeding , and I have raise my concern multiple time with the council and the police , but have repeatedly be tell that it be not a priority for speed - calm measure . that shine a light on how speeding impact people ' s live in my patch and how scarce resource be for tackle this blight on our community . resident in Quinton write to I regularly about the scale of street racing , speeding and dangerous driving on their road . last year , two young girl age four and two be hit by a car on West Boulevard . the year before that , two young boy be injure after a minibus they be passenger in crash with two other vehicle . pedestrian do not feel safe with so many crash happen on our road . off - road bike have also be a cause of serious concern for my constituent . recently , a constituent write to I to say that the issue of people ride off - road vehicle in his neighbourhood be escalate , as the offender with illegal off - road motorcycle be now carry offensive weapon . he say , " I be now regularly report the incident … but still at this stage nothing be happen to seize these bike . " I have take this matter to the top of Government , ask the Home Office what assessment it have make " of the adequacy of the ( a ) power and ( b ) resource available to the police to deal with the illegal use of quad bike . " in reply , the Government say : " the police have adequate power under the Road Traffic Act 1988 and Police Reform Act 2002 to seize vehicle be drive illegally " . of course , though , what matter be resource and officer number , which I raise with the Government last year when I write to the Home Secretary ask when our region will see investment in resource and officer number . what exactly be the Government do to tackle dangerous driving on our road ? do the Minister accept that the police might not effectively have adequate power to combat speeding and seize vehicle be drive illegally if resource have be , and continue to be , slash ? average speed camera , again , be a resource issue . I will close my remark with the comment of another of my constituent : " I have live here in Quinton most of my life and can honestly say I have never see crime so bad to what it be now . there be constant racing on the West Boulevard and up / down " my constituent ' s road " include near the school where a young child be run over . there have be a stabbing on the road . there have be several cannabis farm and the road always seem to smell of cannabis . there be a serious assault in the early hour Saturday morning with the offender reside in the HMO … there be a vulnerable adult reside at the bottom of the road where the local drug dealer use his property as a ' hang out ' " . there be similar story across Edgbaston , Bartley Green , Harborne and North Edgbaston . my constituent also say : " I know in other area the police assist with CCTV or mobile camera to assist with catch offender . can this not be an option for " my constituent ' s road " in a plea to catch local offender and make resident feel safe again . " that be a direct plea from my constituent . despite the repeat call from family across Birmingham , Edgbaston and throughout the country , criminal be not be catch or pay the price . some 90 % of crime be go unsolved , and 2 million crime — include a shocking 74 % of burglary — be drop with no suspect be identify . that be the shameful Tory legacy on criminal justice ; we simply can not afford to carry on like this . labour have make a really important pledge to get neighbourhood police back into community with 13 , 000 extra police officer and pcso , to guarantee patrol in our town centre , and to tackle knife crime as part of our mission to halve serious violence . I put on record my thank to my local police officer for everything they do with the limited resource they have . I be also grateful to our new chief constable , who have agree to prioritise neighbourhood policing , but the west midland have have 2 , 200 police officer cut and we be still 800 short . fundamentally , people do not feel safe , and do not feel that they get justice as victim of crime on this Government ' s watch . I congratulate the hon . member for Birmingham , Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) on secure this evening ' s debate . let I start by provide some national context before answer some of her question . she mention a number of crime figure in her speech , and it be important to put on record that two set of crime statistic be publish : there be police record crime , which be the figure she be quote , and then there be the crime survey for England and Wales produce by the Office for National Statistics . the police record crime figure depend on the propensity of the public to report and how good a job the police do in record those crime . over the last five or seven year , the police have become a lot well at record all the crime report to they , and that be why those number have go up . however , the Office for National Statistics tell we that the most reliable set of figure for long - term crime trend be not the police report crime figure for the reason I have set out — they depend on the public ' s propensity to report and the police ' s ability to record they — but the crime survey . let I give the hon . Lady some of the crime survey figure since 2010 , which she mention as a reference period . on a like - for - like basis , all crime have come down by 54 % since 2010 , accord to the independent Office for National Statistics , while violence be down by 46 % , theft by 47 % , domestic burglary by 55 % , and vehicle theft by 39 % . there be a lot more to do , particularly on shoplifting , vehicle crime and knife crime , which I will come to in a moment , but the overall crime trend be down . on resource , which the hon . Lady mention a few time , across England and Wales as a whole , we now have record number of police officer . on 31 March last year , we reach 149 , 566 police officer . that be more than we have ever have before , and it surpass the previous peak , which be in March 2010 , by about 3 , 500 officer . so we have record police number , and those have broadly speak be maintain since that record be reach in March last year . on West Midlands police specifically , its budget this year be £ 790 million , which be an increase of £ 51 million year on year , or about 6 . 4 % — considerably high than the current rate of inflation . I think many of the question the hon . Lady be ask be question she should be address to Simon Foster , the police and crime commissioner for the West Midlands , who somehow manage to get re - elect a couple of week ago , because he have those financial resource . whereas other police area around the country have hit record number , as have the total , that have not happen in the West Midlands . that be a question I would strongly encourage she to ask Mr Foster , now that he have somehow get himself re - elect . the hon . Lady ask several question about specific crime type . she go through quite a long list , so I will quickly go through some of the more important of they . she mention , for example , knife crime , which be a concern . the number of people get admit to hospital with an injury by a knife have come down by 26 % in the last five year , but there be furth to go . London be conspicuously much bad than the rest of the country . in the rest of the country , a lot more progress be be make , but there be an exception in London . we be do quite a lot to combat this . first , we be encourage a great use of stop and search — do respectfully , of course . that take knife off the street , and we would welcome cross - party support for the police to lawfully use stop and search more to get dangerous knife off the street . secondly , we be invest in various form of technology . in fact , just this lunch time I be with a company — an american company — that be develop a new technology that can scan somebody walk down a street to see whether they be carry a knife , and it can distinguish a knife from a mobile phone or something else . it be not quite ready to deploy yet , but I think it will be ready to deploy experimentally this year . I think that could revolutionise our ability to look at a crowd and detect who in that crowd be carry a knife , and then make sure they be stop , the knife be take off they and they be arrest . we be also do quite a lot of work on prevention , and the hon . Lady mention youth service . notoriously , Birmingham City Council go bankrupt , but the Home Office be directly fund violence reduction unit , to the tune of more than £ 50 million a year across the country , which be design to work with young people — whether it be with mentoring , work experience , cognitive behavioural therapy or youth activity , sometimes in partnership with football club — to help get they on to a well path . the Youth Endowment Fund do lot of work here — it have £ 200 million — and I commend the work of Jon Yates , the chief executive . from next year , there be go to be a £ 75 million increase in violence reduction unit fund over three year , which be about a 50 % increase because , as the hon . Lady say , support those young people be so important . this autumn , we will also be pilot , with the Youth Endowment Fund , a new initiative to try to identify the 50 or so of young people or early teenager who be most at risk of get into serious violence and serious crime . that include look at a range of indicator , such as mental health , education , housing or have an old sibling who be involve in a gang — indicator that go beyond criminal justice , so that intervention can be make to stop a vulnerable or at - risk 12 or 13 - year - old become a violent 17 or 18 - year - old . that initiative have the potential to make a real difference . the hon . Lady talk about car crime , and crime more widely , which be a concern . I recently meet the chief executive of Jaguar Land Rover to discuss exactly this point . we be step up work on car crime , and be work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead , Assistant Chief Constable Jenny Sims of the merseyside force . steal car be often sell and rapidly export in container to country include the United Arab Emirates and the Democratic Republic of the Congo . we will do more work to stop that export at the border . we will also increase the amount of intelligence work do , so that we can spot pattern and identify the organise criminal gang who be often steal these car . the testimony that I share be so powerful because they be people ' s experience of be victim of crime . those people say that give that the West Midlands police be still 800 police officer short , the resource be just not there , so they be give a crime reference number , and that be it . that do not make people feel safe . the Minister be talk about youth crime and various initiative , but youth service have be decimate . there be nowhere for young people to go , and there be no opportunity for good job or training , so they get exploit . those be the kind of thing that young people need . they need hope and aspiration . youth unemployment be of course a great deal low today than it be under the last Labour Government . on resource and police number in the west midland , as I mention , the police and crime commissioner in the west midland have £ 51 million more this year than last year , so the hon . Lady ought to ask he , ideally publicly , what he be spend that money on , and why he be not address the issue that she raise . I agree that car crime and other crime affect the victim terribly . that be why police across the whole country , include of course in the west midland , have commit to always follow reasonable line of inquiry where they exist , include in relation to car crime . a big technological change that we be already exploit be retrospective facial recognition . if the victim have an image of an offender — a Ring doorbell image , a mobile phone photograph of someone take a car , close circuit television footage from a shop where shoplifting have occur — even if the image be blur or partially obscure , it can be run through the police national database for a match . the facial recognition algorithm be now extremely accurate . that be a way in which we be already catch a lot more criminal , include some involve in car crime . I encourage victim who have a picture of a suspect to please give it to the police , because they have commit to always — not sometimes — run it through the facial recognition database ; and they have commit to always — again , not sometimes — follow up reasonable line of inquiry where they exist . that be for all crime , even crime that some people would historically have consider minor . that commitment be make last September , and it be vital that the police deliver on it and support victim , for the reason the hon . Lady set out . will the Minister give an example of where that technology have be use , because I have never know that to happen ? when resident send image that seem to be blur , the police be very clear that they can not do anything with they . can the Minister tell I how many force be use the technology , and when there have be a conviction ? I wonder how much long I have , but the technology be be use across the whole country . this year , over 100 , 000 — order . to answer the Minister ' s question , he have until 7 . 30 pm , which be some 57 minute away . how long his speech take be of course a matter for his discretion ; I be put no pressure on he . I be tempt to use all 57 minute , and I be sure the hon . Lady have intervention that would take up a fair chunk of that , but I will be a lot briefer , which I be sure will be popular with colleague . retrospective facial recognition be be use thousand of time every month , and there be all kind of example of it be use successfully . for example , a murder be commit in a Coventry nightclub a couple of year ago , and the only piece of evidence be a photograph of the suspect take in the nightclub . run that through the police national database get a match , and the police go to the suspect ' s address and find the suspect there , with clothe cover in the victim ' s blood , and he have now be convict . there be hundred of example just from the past few month of retrospective facial recognition be use . a photo that be blur or dark can often be match . obviously there need to be some sort of image that the police can look at , but it be remarkable to see the image that can now be match , use that algorithm . I strongly encourage everybody to send image to the police . if the police do not run they through the facial recognition database , people should ask why and push the police to do so , because they have commit to do that . we now deploy live facial recognition in a way that allow suspect who be wander around a high street or a train station to be identify and arrest . I have also mention technology such as knife scanning . facial recognition have the potential , in the come year and month — this be not a long way off ; it be be use now — to transform how we catch criminal , so that we do a well job for victim . the hon . Lady also ask about scrap metal . interestingly enough , I have a meeting today with the all - party parliamentary group on metal , stone and heritage crime , chair by my hon . friend the Member for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) . Lord Birt , who be a member of the APPG from the Lords , also attend . we discuss what more we can do . scrap metal theft be estimate at about £ 500 million a year . when the Scrap Metal Dealers Act be pass in 2013 — it be a private member ' s Bill from my predecessor Sir Richard Ottaway — the figure be about £ 800 million a year , so the value have come down by more than a third since 2013 , but we would like to go far . the hon . Lady mention the NPCC group on metal theft ; it be my intention to invite myself to that group and attend its next meeting , which I think be on 11 June , to press for more action in this area . the theft of catalytic converter and lead be the area of most pressing concern . the hon . Lady briefly mention shoplifting , which be a matter of extreme concern . the police have a national retail crime action plan , which include a plan to target prolific shoplifter , and to follow reasonable line of inquiry , include by always run the picture from CCTV through the facial recognition database . the Government publish our additional action plan just a couple of week ago , which include a plan to meet the call from member of this House , the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and other to create a stand - alone offence of assault a retail worker . that have be widely welcome . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be relieve to hear that I be not take up all 57 minute . I have set out the action that be be take and , more importantly , the result that be be deliver . there be some disappointing trend in the west midland , but I know the hon . Lady will take those up with the police and crime commissioner , Simon Foster , and will ask he what he be do with the £ 51 million extra he have get this year . I will work constructively with she and other colleague to make sure that our community be keep safe . question put and agree to . House adjourn .