I congratulate the hon . member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) on his excellent maiden speech , which be difficult to follow . I gently say that it be mar only by the fact that he do not reference two of his most famous constituent : William Kidd , the pirate , and my mother , who be bear in Houston . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to take part in this important debate at the dawn of this new Parliament . I also thank my colleague for their wise counsel and help as I take my first step here in the cockpit of democracy . defence be the no . 1 task of any Government , as we have hear , and I be proud that my constituency , Dumfries and Galloway , have many fine young man and woman currently in our armed force , and many gallant veteran who have serve on air , sea and land . of course , like every constituency , Dumfries and Galloway have many people work in the UK ' s world - class defence industry , which deserve our support . I worry about use the expression " punch above our weight " in relation to our armed force . a british major general who serve with distinction in Afghanistan , and who know a lot more about conflict and boxing than I do , tell I , " that ' s a recipe for get knock out as soon as the bell ring . " I pay tribute to my predecessor , Alister Jack . I make it clear that , although such praise be customary on these occasion , I offer tribute not out of duty but out of genuine respect and admiration . as a special adviser , I have a front - row seat for Alister ' s tour - de - force performance as Secretary of State for Scotland . under his leadership , the Scotland Office , small but perfectly form — not unlike myself — be a bantamweight bazooka , bang on target for the people of Scotland on issue include equality , the independence debate and the benighted A75 and A77 road that be so crucial to Dumfries and Galloway . I hope I can apply the lesson learn at the foot of the master for the betterment of Dumfries and Galloway . I get the fine start possible there and I want to make sure other get the same chance . only through marry the talent and aspiration that abound in the south - west of Scotland with opportunity can we defeat that blight on all rural area : depopulation . we need the three J ' s : job , job , job . we have much work to do to make ours a go - to destination , not a go - through destination . bless with a balmy climate , we be home to some of the country ' s fine dairy herd . our unspoiled landscape be a tourism dream . the terrain , for instance around Newton Stewart and Minnigaff , be ideal for cycling . the Merrick , the Cairnsmore of Fleet and the Galloway hill be a delight for hiker . stroll on the beach at Killantringan — I will help Hansard with the spelling later — on the rugged Rhins peninsula , and you will probably have the golden strand all to yourself , and you will see our northern irish friend in this great Union just 14 mile distant . dumfrie itself , astride the mighty Nith , be rightly laud as the " Queen of the South " . Erudite Wigtown be Scotland ' s national book town , and there I pick up a copy of " if " , arguably the fine work by Rudyard Kipling . his line , " if you can meet with Triumph and Disaster and treat those two impostor just the same " , resonate now on the Government Benches , where Labour member be have a moment in the sun , but also on the Opposition Benches , where the blue flame of Conservativism gutter in the storm , burn low , but do not go out . many suppose " if " to be about Kipling ' s son , John , who be tragically kill serve with the Irish Guards in the great war . in fact , it be inspire by Leander Starr Jameson , who grow up in my home town of Stranraer , after his father take editorship of the Wigtownshire Free Press . that venerable newspaper be still in circulation , and I get my first and last journalism job there , as a trainee reporter and latterly as editor . Jameson lead a daring raid against the South African Republic in 1896 . perhaps there be something in the pristine water of south - west Scotland that instil a resilience and self - reliance in its people , for John Paul Jones , father of the United States navy , be also a native Gallovidian . Jones unfortunately go pirate on we in the american revolution . lock in mortal combat with the Royal Navy off Flamborough Head in 1779 , he be repute to have say : " surrender ? I have not yet begin to fight ! " I be proud , then , to have be elect to represent the redoubtable people of Dumfries and Galloway , inheritor of Jameson ' s alacrity and Jones ' s never - say - die attitude , both vital in today ' s febrile time . in conclusion , Bonnie Gallowa ' have a story past and , I be determined , a bright future . I shall endeavour , as Kipling didn ' t quite put it , to keep the heid .