member ' productiivity : Digital Tools with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on the conflict in Ukraine , as we prepare to mark two year since the start of the full - scale russian invasion . like many in this House , I remember exactly where I be on 24 February 2022 . just before sunrise , I be wake by a phone call to be tell that Russia have illegally invade Ukraine , and that a car would be outside at 6 am , head for Cobra . after that meeting , Ministers be all ask to speak to their respective ukrainian counterpart . at the time , I be Transport Secretary , and my arrangement be to speak via Zoom with my then opposite number , Oleksandr Kubrakov . Oleksandr , who I have subsequently get to know very well , be stand in the middle of a field outside Kyiv . I ask he about the situation , and he tell I that quite frankly , he do not know how much long the city would last . the russian army be understand to be just kilometre away ; the wolf , or in this case the russian bear , be literally at the door ; and expert opinion suggest that Kyiv would be take in perhaps three day . however , as this war drag into its third year , far from win , Russia have be push back since those early day . Putin have achieve none of his strategic objective , his invade force have suffer a staggering 356 , 000 casualty , and Ukraine have destroy or damage about 30 % of the Russian Black sea fleet and retake 50 % of the territory that Russia steal from it . meanwhile , Oleksandr Kubrakov be now the Deputy Prime Minister , and his job be the restoration of Ukraine when this be over . Putin arrogantly assume that this conflict would be over in day , and he be wrong . he reckon without the strength of the international support that would rally to Ukraine ' s cause . I be proud that , over the course of the past 730 day , Britain have be at the forefront of that global response . our effort , always a step ahead of our ally , have make a genuine difference . from the outset , we declassify intelligence specifically to scupper russian false flag . our nlaw anti - tank missile , provide in advance of the full - scale invasion , and our Javelins help brave Ukrainians devastate Putin ' s menace 40 - mile armoured convoy , which be head directly at Kyiv . we be the first to send main battle tank with our Challenger squadron , plus 500 armoured vehicle and 15 , 000 anti - armour weapon . all of this help to degrade Russia ' s once formidable fighting force , with Putin loss amount to 2 , 700 main battle tank , 5 , 300 armoured vehicle and 1 , 400 artillery piece . throughout this conflict , our 4 million round of small arm ammunition have allow Ukraine to maintain a rate of fire , and recently help keep the Russians at bay during their winter offensive . meanwhile , the Kremlin have be unable to achieve the air superiority that it assume it would have , in part thank to our donation of 1 , 800 air defence missile , and over 4 , 000 british drone have be send to date . this conflict have indeed demonstrate that drone be change the face of modern warfare , and we be already learn the lesson from that . that be why , early today , my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement launch the UK defence drone strategy to stay ahead on this new frontier of technology — back by at least £ 200 million , announce by the Prime Minister recently — make the UK the big drone partner for Ukraine . yet it be actually at sea where the ally contribution to Ukraine ' s cause have be most keenly feel . our mighty storm Shadows and our uncrewed sea system have help Ukraine achieve a breakthrough in the Black sea . not only have Russia ' s fleet lose seven different surface ship plus a submarine , but a Black sea corridor have open up for trade , allow Ukraine to export 19 million tonne of cargo , include 13 . 4 million tonne of agricultural produce . at the end of last month , ukrainian agricultural export from its Black sea port reach the high level since the war begin , far exceed what happen under Putin ' s Black sea grain initiative . as President Zelensky say to I when I visit , the UK ' s contribution have be monumental . he point out that , since the start of the conflict , the UK have send almost 400 different type of capability to Ukraine . together , we have show that when Ukraine get what it need , it can win , which be why the UK be continue to step up our support . last month , the Prime Minister announce that we will be invest a furth £ 2 . 5 billion in military support for Ukraine , take our total military package so far to over £ 7 billion and our total support to over £ 12 billion , account for humanitarian and economic support as well . in that spirit , today I can announce a new package of 200 Brimstone anti - tank missile in a further boost to defend Ukraine . these missile have previously have significant impact on the battlefield , in one instance force russian force to abandon and to retreat from an attempt crossing of a river . member will recall that , a few day ago , President Zelensky tell the Munich security conference that an " artificial deficit of weapon " will only help Russia , and he be right . so today we be give Ukraine more of the help it need , inflate its capability so that it can defend freedom ' s frontline . other capability will also be come its way . our UK found and administer international fund for Ukraine have pledge more than £ 900 million to help Ukraine plug gap in its capability , deliver cutting - edge drone along with electronic warfare and mine clearance capability , with million of pound of kit to come . we be invest not just in weapon , but in the brave personnel who serve . so far , Britain have put more than 60 , 000 Ukrainians through their pace here in the UK , but Operation Interflex , our main training effort , be go to expand even far . I be delighted to announce that Kosovo and Estonia have join we , Australia , Canada , Denmark , New Zealand , Norway , the Netherlands , Sweden , Finland , Lithuania and Romania in all train ukrainian troop here in Britain . together , we will train a further 10 , 000 in the first half of 2024 . meanwhile , we be build capability coalition . alongside Norway , we be lead a maritime capability coalition , and we have be join by a dozen other country in this enterprise . this be about mine detection drone , raid craft and Sea King helicopter , which have already be send its way , so that Ukraine can build its navy and defend its sovereign water . last week , I meet my NATO counterpart in Brussels , and I announce that , together with Latvia , we would lead the drone coalition . that will allow we to scale up and streamline the west ' s provision of miniature first - person view — FPV — drone to Ukraine , while support the establishment of a drone school for ukrainian operator and a test range , as well as develop AI swarm drone technology , which will surely be critical in the next phase of this war . Britain have earmark some £ 200 million to procure and produce long - range strike and sea drone , and become Ukraine ' s large supplier of drone . yet this be far from the summit of our ambition . in December , we set up a new taskforce to build a strong defence industrial partnership with Ukraine , ensure that Ukraine can sustain the fight for year to come . in January , the Prime Minister sign the historic security co - operation agreement . this be the start of a 100 - year alliance that we be build with our ukrainian friend . once again , it be the United Kingdom that have sign the first such agreement , with welcome signing from France and Germany have follow . the Ukrainians have the will and they have the skill , and they have show that if they be give the tool , they can do the job , but their need today remain particularly urgent . Russia be continue to attack along almost the entire frontline , only recently decimate and then capture the eastern town of Avdiivka . the Kremlin continue to callously strike at civilian target , most recently hit a hospital in Selydove . Putin be make no secret whatsoever of be in this for the long term . Russia ' s economy have indeed shift on to a full - time war footing , spend some 30 % of its federal expenditure on its defence — a nominal increase of almost 70 % just on last year alone . if the cruel death of the remarkable , brave russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny have teach we anything , it be that Putin ' s victory be something that none of we can afford . the tyrant of the Kremlin be determine simply to wait out the west . he believe that we lack the stomach for the fight , and we must show he that we be wrong . this House may not be unite on all matter , as we have see in the past 24 hour , but we be unite on one thing : our support for Ukraine . so the UK will continue to double down on that support , and all freedom - love country must be compel to do the same . this year will be make or break for Ukraine , so it be time for the west and all civilised nation to step up and give Ukraine the backing it need . two year ago , when I speak to an anxious Oleksandr Kubrakov , who have retreat to that field outside Kyiv , he do not know what would happen to Ukraine . now , enter the third year of this conflict , it be remarkable to see that Ukrainians remain in full fight . I know that the whole House will join I in say that the UK will not stop support the brave Ukrainians , our friend , until they have win and have victory . I do not entirely agree with the right hon . member ' s characterisation of the UK response in term of deindustrialisation . I do agree that it be difficult overall to suddenly ramp up from whatever level we be produce at on a non - war footing , but it be hearten to know — I think this be right , but it be off the top of my head ; I will correct the figure if I have get it wrong — that our munition and missile production be now eight time the level it be before the war , so we have certainly step up . in addition , we be carry out round of procurement through the international fund for Ukraine , which we establish and which be still receive new contribution . I be delighted that Australia have just donate $ 50 million to that fund . I think — again , this be off the top of my head — there have be 27 round of contract procurement so far . I be not familiar with the particular case that the right hon . Member cite , so I will write back to he on the detail , but it be encouraging that we have be able to set up a mechanism so that other country that have not have our scale of ambition and footprint on Ukraine can put in their own money , so that we can buy in coalition on their behalf . we will continue to do that .